haul;the act of drawing or hauling something. 'the haul up the hill went very slowly'
award;a grant made by a law court. 'he criticized the awarding of compensation by the court'
proceedings;the institution of a sequence of steps by which legal judgments are invoked
credit;used in the phrase 'to your credit' to indicate an achievement deserving praise. 'she already had several performances to her credit'
tit for tat;an equivalent given in return
crecy;the first decisive battle of the hundred years' war. in 1346 the english under edward iii defeated the french under king philip of valois
smell;the act of perceiving the odor of something
distraint;the seizure and holding of property as security for payment of a debt or satisfaction of a claim
hornpipe;a british solo dance performed by sailors
stump speech;political oratory
action at law;a judicial proceeding brought by one party against another. one party prosecutes another for a wrong done or for protection of a right or for prevention of a wrong
tubal ligation;a sterilization procedure with women. both fallopian tubes are tied in two places and the tubes removed in between the ligations
war;the series of wars fought intermittently between france and england. 1337-1453
physical exercise;the activity of exerting you muscles in various was to keep fit. 'the doctor recommended regular exercise'. 'he did some exercising'. 'the physical exertion required by his work kept him fit'
firing;the act of firing weapons or artillery at an enemy. 'hold your fire until you can see the whites of their eyes'. 'they retreated in the face of withering enemy fire'
apprehension;the act of apprehending (especially apprehending a criminal). 'the policeman on the beat got credit for the collar'
re sentencing;the reduction is severity of a punishment imposed by law
agnus dei;a liturgical prayer
exposure;abandoning without shelter or protection (as by leaving as infant out in the open)
beating;the act of inflicting corporal punishment with repeated blows
survivors insurance;insurance paid to surviving spouses
requital;an act of requiting. returning in kind
name;by the sanction or authority of. 'halt in the name of the law'
specialisation;the special line of work you have adopted as your career. 'his specialization is gastroenterology'
immunization;the act of making immune (especially by inoculation)
writing;the act of creating written works. 'writing was a form of therapy for him'. 'it was a matter of disputed authorship'
mastering;the act of making a master recording from which copies can be made. 'he received a bill for mastering the concert and making 100 copies'
carving;cutting away parts to create a desired shape
exoneration;the act of vindicating. 'subsequent events have proved to be a vindication of his position'
excavation;the act of extracting ores or coal etc from the earth
serigraphy;the act of making a print by the silk-screen method
apportioning;the act of distributing by allotting or apportioning. 'the apportionment of seats in the house of representatives is based on the relative populaton of each state'
hop;the act of hopping (jumping upward or forward (especially on one foot))
suturing;surgical joining of two surfaces
headwind;wind blowing opposite to the path of a ship or aircraft
rhinoplasty;cosmetic surgery to improve the appearance of your nose
deregulating;the act of freeing from regulation (especially from governmental regulations)
manual;(military) a prescribed drill in handling a rifle
observation;the act of making and recording a measurement
exercise;a task performed or problem solved in order to develop skill or understanding. 'you must work the examples at the end of each chapter in the textbook'
experimental condition;the procedure that is varied in order to estimate a variable's effect by comparison with a control condition
battle of shiloh;the second great battle of the american civil war (1862). the battle ended with the withdrawal of confederate troops but is was not a union victory
plunk;the act of hitting a baseball so that it drops suddenly
assumption;the act of taking possession of or power over something. 'the nazi assumption of power in 1934'
straight poker;poker in which each player gets 5 cards face down and bets a made without drawing any further cards
affray;noisy quarrel
governorship;the office of governor
rassling;the sport of hand-to-hand struggle between unarmed contestants who try to throw each other down
action;something done (usually as opposed to something said). 'there were stories of murders and other unnatural actions'
thanks;with the help of or owing to. 'thanks to hard work it was a great success'
pardon;the act of excusing a mistake or offense
mazurka;a polish national dance in triple time
demand;required activity. 'the requirements of his work affected his health'. 'there were many demands on his time'
double entry bookkeeping;bookkeeper debits the transaction to one account and credits it to another
fabrication;the act of constructing something (as a piece of machinery)
initial public offering;a corporation's first offer to sell stock to the public
primping;careful or finicky grooming. 'the boss didn't want them to waste time primping'
russian revolution;the revolution against the czarist government. march 1917
short sale;sale of securities or commodity futures not owned by the seller (who hopes to buy them back later at a lower price)
mud;slanderous remarks or charges
spying;the act of keeping a secret watch for intelligence purposes
civil war;a war between factions in the same country
peekaboo;a game played with young children. you hide your face and suddenly reveal it as you say boo!
nostrum;a remedy for all ills or diseases
misgovernment;government that is inefficient or dishonest
bouvines;in 1214 the french under king philip augustus defeated a coalition formed against him in one of the greatest battles of the middle ages
contumacy;obstinate rebelliousness and insubordination. resistance to authority
sexual abstention;abstaining from sexual relations
3 d;a movie with images having three dimensional form or appearance
call back;the recall of an employee after a layoff
composition;musical creation
centering;(football) putting the ball in play by passing it (between the legs) to a back
press;the act of pressing. 'he gave the button a press'. 'he used pressure to stop the bleeding'
judgment in rem;a judgment pronounced on the status of some particular subject or property or thing (as opposed to one pronounced on persons)
grace;a short prayer of thanks before a meal
gentle breeze;wind moving 8-12 knots. 3 on the beaufort scale
lustrum;(ancient rome) a ceremonial purification of the roman population every five years following the census
clampdown;sudden restriction on an activity
adjudication;the act of pronouncing judgment based on the evidence presented
mistiming;something located at a time when it could not have existed or occurred
cardinalship;the office of cardinal
inventorying;making an itemized list of merchandise or supplies on hand. 'the inventory took two days'
nurturing;raising someone to be an accepted member of the community. 'they debated whether nature or nurture was more important'
glower;an angry stare
perceiving;becoming aware of something via the senses
rinse;washing lightly without soap
dairy farming;the business of a dairy
wardenship;the position of warden
world war ii;a war between the allies (australia belgium bolivia brazil canada china colombia costa-rico cuba czechoslovakia dominican-republic el-salvador ethiopia greece guatemala haiti honduras india iran iraq luxembourg mexico netherlands new-zealand nicaragua norway panama philippines poland south-africa united-kingdom us ussr yugoslavia) and the axis (albania bulgaria finland germany hungary italy japan rumania slovakia thailand) from 1939 to 1945
remission;formal redemption as pronounced by a priest in the sacrament of penance
denial;the act of refusing a request. 'it resulted in a complete denial of his privileges'
momism;excessive protection
rhytidoplasty;an operation to remove wrinkles and other signs of aging from your face
pinning;a mutual promise of a couple not to date anyone else. on college campuses it is signaled by the giving of a fraternity pin
consent;agreement with a statement or proposal. 'he gave his assent eagerly'. 'a murmur of consent from the assembly'
merrymaking;boisterous celebration
toe in;the alignment of the front wheels of a motor vehicle closer together at the front than at the back
pink slip;notification that you have been fired from your job
logistics;handling an operation that involves providing labor and materials be supplied as needed
benefaction;an act intending or showing kindness and good will
keratoplasty;a surgical procedure in which part or all of the cornea is replaced by healthy corneal tissue from a donor
tender loving care;considerate and solicitous care. 'young children need lots of tlc'
tinning;the act of coating with soft solder. 'tinning the ends of the wires makes a better joint when you solder them'
rebellion;refusal to accept some authority or code or convention. 'each generation must have its own rebellion'. 'his body was in rebellion against fatigue'
penance;a catholic sacrament. repentance and confession and satisfaction and absolution
idealisation;a portrayal of something as ideal. 'the idealization of rural life was very misleading'
row;the act of rowing as a sport
snowfall;precipitation falling from clouds in the form of ice crystals
trial;(law) the determination of a person's innocence or guilt by due process of law. 'he had a fair trial and the jury found him guilty'
chromosome mapping;(genetics) the process of locating genes on a chromosome
program trading;a trading technique involving large blocks of stock with trades triggered by computer programs
assemblage;the social act of assembling. 'they demanded the right of assembly'
sensitizing;rendering an organism sensitive to a serum by a series of injections
bound;a light springing movement upwards or forwards
emission;the act of emitting
polity;shrewd or crafty management of public affairs. 'we was innocent of stratagems and polity'
final judgment;a judgment disposing of the case before the court. after the judgment (or an appeal from it) is rendered all that remains is to enforce the judgment
collar;the act of apprehending (especially apprehending a criminal). 'the policeman on the beat got credit for the collar'
fiesta;an organized series of acts and performances
spraying;the application of a liquid in the form of small particles ejected from a sprayer
porcupine provision;a measure undertaken by a corporation to discourage unwanted takeover attempts
fetich;excessive or irrational devotion to some activity. 'made a fetish of cleanliness'
self effacement;withdrawing into the background. making yourself inconspicuous
jactitation;speaking of yourself in superlatives
sally;a military action in which besieged troops burst forth from their position
temperateness;moderate weather. suitable for outdoor activities
exteriorization;embodying in an outward form
whine;a complaint uttered in a plaintive whining way
phlebotomy;surgical incision into a vein
invigilation;(british) keeping watch over examination candidates to prevent cheating
loose end;work that is left incomplete
hospital care;medical care in a hospital
subsidization;the act of providing a subsidy
toss;(sports) the act of throwing the ball to another member of your team. 'the pass was fumbled'
score;the act of scoring in a game or sport. 'the winning score came with less than a minute left to play'
vomiting;the act of ejecting the contents of the stomach through the mouth
extrusion;squeezing out by applying pressure
rapprochement;the reestablishing of cordial relations
project;a school task requiring considerable effort
loop;a flight maneuver. aircraft flies a complete circle in the vertical plane
plundering;the act of stealing valuable things from a place. 'the plundering of rome'. 'his plundering of the great authors'
self defence;the act of defending yourself
dissent;a difference of opinion
quid pro quo;an equal exchange. 'we had no money so we hd to live by barter'
improvisation;an unplanned expedient
trouble;an effort that is inconvenient. 'i went to a lot of trouble'. 'he won without any trouble'. 'had difficulty walking'. 'finished the test only with great difficulty'
suggestion;the act of suggesting. 'it was a suggestion we couldn't refuse'
speakership;the position of speaker
petrolatum;a semisolid mixture of hydrocarbons obtained from petroleum. used in medicinal ointment and for lubrication
confection;the act of creating something by compounding or mixing raw materials
coloratura;singing with florid ornamentation
localization;a determination of the location of something. 'he got a good fix on the target'
persuasion;inducement by argument or reasoning or entreaty
law;the learned profession that is mastered by graduate study in a law school and that is responsible for the judicial system. 'he studied law at yale'
ballroom dance;any of a variety of social dances performed by couples in a ballroom
safety;a score in american football. a player is tackled behind his own goal line
judgement on the merits;judgment rendered through analysis and adjudication of the factual issues presented
maneuvering;a move made to gain a tactical end
war of the austrian succession;prussian and austria fought over silesia and most of the rest of europe took sides. 1740-1748
trick or treat;a request by children on halloween. they pass from door to door asking for goodies and threatening to play tricks on those who refuse
contact;a channel for communication between groups. 'he provided a liaison with the geurillas'
affray;a noisy fight
tap;a light touch or stroke
reading assignment;the reading of a passage assigned by the teacher
auscultation;listening to sounds within the body (usually with a stethoscope)
circularisation;circulating printed notices as a means of advertising
rite;an established ceremony prescribed by a religion. 'the rite of baptism'
strabotomy;the surgical operation of cutting a muscle or tendon of the eye in order to correct strabismus
dilation and curettage;a surgical procedure usually performed under local anesthesia in which the cervix is dilated and the endometrial lining of the uterus is scraped with a curet. performed to obtain tissue samples or to stop prolonged bleeding or to remove small tumors or to remove fragments of placenta after childbirth or as a method of abortion
inoculation;taking a vaccine as a precaution against contracting a disease
struggle;an open clash between two opposing groups (or individuals). 'the harder the conflict the more glorious the triumph'--thomas paine. 'police tried to control the battle between the pro- and anti-abortion mobs'
shoring;the act of propping up with shores
somersaulting;an acrobatic feat in which the feet roll over the head (either forward or backward) and return
acceptance;in contract law: words signifying consent to the terms of an offer (thereby creating a contract)
rally;the feat of mustering strength for a renewed effort. 'he singled to start a rally in the 9th inning'. 'he feared the rallying of their troops for a counterattack'
putsch;a sudden and decisive change of government illegally or by force
speech act;the use of language to perform some act
teasing;the act of removing tangles from you hair with a comb
democratization;the action of making something democratic
devoir;formal expression of respect
modulation;(electronics) the transmission of a signal by imposing it on a carrier wave by changing the carrier's amplitude or frequency or phase
sampling;the selection of a suitable sample for study
air current;a current of air (usually coming into a room or vehicle)
makeshift;something contrived to meet an urgent need or emergency
dancing;taking a series of rhythmical steps (and movements) in time to music
click;depression of a button on a computer mouse: 'a click on the right button for example'
carrying out;the act of doing something successfully. using knowledge as distinguished from merely possessing it. 'experience generally improves performance'
accession;the act of entering upon or attaining to a position or right
capitalization;the sale of capital stock
satisfaction;act of fulfilling a desire or need or appetite. 'the satisfaction of their demand for better services'
silent movie;a movie without a soundtrack
pageant;an elaborate representation of scenes from history etc. usually involves a parade with rich costumes
upset;an improbable and unexpected victory. 'the biggest upset since david beat goliath'
battle of minden;a battle in the seven years' war (1759) in which the anglo-allied forces defeated the french
thermometry;the measurement of temperature
tergiversation;the act of abandoning a party or cause
monsoon;a seasonal wind in s asia. blows from the sw (bringing rain) in summer and from the ne in winter
expose;the exposure of an impostor or a fraud. 'he published an expose of the graft and corruption in city government'
interdiction fire;fire directed to an area to prevent the enemy from using that area
patrolling;the activity of going around or through an area at regular intervals for security purposes
tumble;an acrobatic feat of rolling or turning end over end
jinks;noisy and mischievous merrymaking
perfect game;a game in which a pitcher does not allow any opposing player to reach base
samba;a form of canasta using three decks and six jokers
sifting;the act of winnowing
drafting;the craft of drawing blueprints
roller;a grounder that rolls along the infield
funeral march;a slow march to be played for funeral processions
quarrel;an angry dispute. 'they had a quarrel'. 'they had words'
output;production of a certain amount
encroachment;influencing strongly: 'they resented the impingement of american values on european culture'
dress rehearsal;a full rehearsal shortly before the first performance
equation;the act of regarding as equal
chastisement;verbal punishment
dressmaking;the craft of making dresses
urinalysis;the chemical analysis of urine (for medical diagnosis)
formalization;the act of making formal (as by stating formal rules governing classes of expressions)
exodus;a journey by a large group to escape from a hostile environment
curettement;surgery to remove tissue or growths from a bodily cavity (as the uterus) by scraping with a curette
plumbing;the occupation of a plumber (installing and repairing pipes and fixtures for water or gas or sewage in a building)
radiology;examination of the inner structure of opaque objects using x rays or other penetrating radiation
consignment;the official act of consigning a person to a prison (or mental hospital)
single;a base hit on which the batter stops safely at first base
slander;the act of defaming
chairmanship;the position of chairman
skull practice;teaching strategy to an athletic team
fatigue;labor of a nonmilitary kind done by soldiers (cleaning or digging or draining or so on). 'the soldiers were put on fatigue to teach them a lesson'
post;a job in an organization or hierarchy. 'he ocupied a post in the treasury'
burp;a reflex that expels wind noisily from the stomach through the mouth
objection;an expression of opposition to a course of action
feast;an organized series of acts and performances
crisis intervention;psychotherapy that focuses on acute critical situations (depressive episodes or attempted suicides or drug overdoses) with the aim of restoring the person to the level of functioning before the crisis
chair;the position of professor
cesarean;the delivery of a fetus by surgical incision through the abdominal wall and uterus (from the belief that julius caesar was born that way)
plumbery;the occupation of a plumber (installing and repairing pipes and fixtures for water or gas or sewage in a building)
misunderstanding;putting the wrong interpretation on. 'his misinterpretation of the question caused his error' or 'there was no mistaking her meaning'
battle of langside;(1568) catholic forces supporting mary queen of scots were routed by protestants under her half-brother lord james stuart, earl of murray
toss bombing;a bombing run in which the bomber approaches the target at a low altitude and pulls up just before releasing the bomb
transmission;communication by means of transmitted signals
visit;brief residence as a guest. 'a wekend visit with friends'
fibre optics;the transmission of light signals via glass fibers
consonance;the repetition of consonants (or consonant patterns) especially at the ends of words
infotainment;a film or tv program presenting the facts about a person or event
judgement on the pleadings;a judgment rendered by the court prior to a verdict because no material issue of fact exists and one party or the other is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law
selective jamming;electronic jamming of a specific channel or frequency
field of operation;a particular kind of commercial enterprise. 'they are outstanding in their field'
shot;the act of putting a liquid into the body by means of a syringe. 'the nurse gave him a flu shot'
stylisation;the act of stylizing. causing to conform to a particular style
realization;making real or giving the appearance of reality
desertion;withdrawing support or help despite allegiance or responsibility. 'his abandonment of his wife and children left them penniless'
acupuncture;(chinese) treatment of pain or disease by inserting the tips of needles at specific points on the skin
accord;concurrence of opinion. 'we are in accord with your proposal'
olympian games;the ancient panhellenic celebration at olympia in honor of zeus. held every 4 years beginning in 472 bc
trigger;an act that sets in motion some course of events
play;the act using a sword (or other weapon) vigorously and skillfully
impaction;a sharp collision produced by striking or dashing against something
interpretative dance;a form of modern dance in which the dancer's movements depict an emotion or tell a story
arms deal;a deal to provide military arms
professional tennis;playing tennis for money
scattering;a light shower that falls in some locations and not others nearby
quality control;maintenance of standards of quality of manufactured goods
orientation;a course introducing a new situation or environment
practical joke;a prank or trick played on a person especially one intended to make the victim appear foolish
squatting;exercising by repeatedly assuming a squatting position. strengthens the leg muscles
chop;a grounder that bounces high in the air
license;the act of giving a formal (usually written) authorization
idolisation;the act of admiring strongly
calling together;the act of convoking
disclaimer;(law) a voluntary repudiation of a person's legal claim to something
barring;the act of excluding someone by a negative vote or veto
cognovit judgment;a judgment entered after a written confession by the debtor without the expense of ordinary legal proceedings
courting;a man's courting of a woman. seeking the affections of a woman (usually with the hope of marriage). 'its was a brief and intense courtship'
mud bath;a bath in warm mud (as for treating rheumatism)
battle of guadalcanal;a battle in world war ii in the pacific (1942-1943). the island was occupied by the japanese and later recaptured by american forces
tenor;the adult male singing voice above baritone
specialism;the special line of work you have adopted as your career. 'his specialization is gastroenterology'
kwanzaa;a festival featuring african-american culture. celebrated between christmas and new years
minelaying;laying explosive mines in concealed places to destroy enemy personnel and equipment
capital punishment;putting a condemned person to death
battle of marathon;a battle in 490 bc in which the athenians and their allies defeated the persians
seduction;an act of winning the love of someone
breath;a slight movement of the air. 'there wasn't a breath of air in the room'
shot;the launching of a missile or spacecraft to a specified destination
battle of hohenlinden;a battle during the napoleonic wars (1800). the french defeated the austrians
brush;a minor short-term fight
poison pill;the target company defends itself by making its stock less attractive to an acquirer
dramatization;a dramatic representation
pull;a sustained effort. 'it was a long pull but we made it'
sponsorship;the act of sponsoring (either officially or financially)
self analysis;the application of psychotherapeutic principles to the analysis of your own personality
self protection;the act of defending yourself
portraiture;the activity of making portraits
chrysotherapy;the use of chemicals containing gold for treating diseases (such as rheumatoid arthritis)
priorship;the office of prior
retaking;the act of taking something back
learned profession;one of the three professions traditionally believed to require advanced learning and high principles
bw defense;defense against biological warfare
panhysterectomy;surgical removal of the uterus and the ovaries and oviducts and cervix and related lymph nodes
vigil;a purposeful surveillance to guard or observe
accordance;concurrence of opinion. 'we are in accord with your proposal'
strategic buyout;an acquisition based on analysis of the benefits of consolidation in anticipation of increased earning power
regulating;the act of regulating. 'fiscal regulations are in the hands of politicians'
resignation;the act of resigning
radar fire;gunfire aimed a target that is being tracked by radar
legateship;the post or office of legate
swimming;the act of swimming
collectivization;the organization of a nation or economy on the basis of collectivism
media;transmissions that are disseminated widely to the public
zama;the battle in 202 bc in which scipio decisively defeated hannibal at the end of the second punic war
protection;the activity of protecting someone or something. 'the witnesses demanded police protection'. 'he hated to spend so much time guarding his new car'the activity of protecting someone or something. 'the witnesses demanded police protection'. 'he hated to spend so much time guarding his new car'
2 hitter;a game in which a pitcher allows the opposing team only 2 hits
exercise;the activity of exerting you muscles in various was to keep fit. 'the doctor recommended regular exercise'. 'he did some exercising'. 'the physical exertion required by his work kept him fit'
jail delivery;the use of force to liberate prisoners
battle of the bulge;battle during world war ii. in december 1945 von rundstedt launched a powerful counteroffensive in the ardennes forest that caught the allies by surprise
secondary education;education beyond the elementary grades provided by a high school or college preparatory school
benediction;a ceremonial prayer invoking divine protection
deal;the act of apportioning or distributing something. 'the captain was entrusted with the deal of provisions'
battle of chattanooga;in the american civil war (1863) the union armies of hooker, thomas, and sherman under the command of ulysses s. grant won a decisive victory over the confederate army under braxton bragg
massed fire;fire from two or more weapons directed at a single target or area (as fire by batteries of two or more warships)
exploration;a careful systematic search
psalmody;the act of singing psalms or hymns
checkers;a checkerboard game for two players who each have 12 pieces. the object is to jump over and so capture the opponent's pieces
listing;the act of making a list of items
sewage disposal;the disposal of sewage
numismatics;the collection and study of money (and coins in particular)
digital communications technology;the design and construction of communications technology that transmits information in digital form
catering;providing food and services
hundred years;the series of wars fought intermittently between france and england. 1337-1453
golf;a game played on a large open course with 9 or 18 holes. the object is use as few strokes as possible in playing all the holes
trade;the skilled practice of a practical occupation. 'he learned his trade as an apprentice'
incarnation;the act of attributing human characteristics to abstract ideas etc.
assimilation;the absorbing of one cultural group into harmony with another
noblesse oblige;the obligation of those of high rank to be honorable and generous (often used ironically)
shovel board;(british) a game in which coins or discs are slid by hand across a board toward a mark
tenpins;bowling down an alley at a target of ten wooden pins
recantation;a disavowal of a previous assertion
candidature;the campaign of a candidate to be elected
task;a specific piece of work required to be done as a duty or for a specific fee: 'estimates of the city's loss on that job ranged as high as a million dollars'. 'the job of repairing the engine took several hours'. 'the endless task of classifying the samples'. 'the farmer's morning chores'
chess;a game for two players who move their 16 pieces according to specific rules. the object is to checkmate the opponent's king
repositioning;the act of placing in a new position
disturbance;activity that is an intrusion or interruption. 'he looked around for the source of the disturbance'. 'there was a disturbance of neural function'
erecting;the act of building or putting up
tolerance;the act of tolerating something
daycare;childcare during the day while parents work
operation;a planned activity involving many people performing various actions: 'the biggest police operation in french history'. 'running a restaurant is quite an operation'. 'consolidate the companies various operations'
systematic desinsitization;a technique used in behavior therapy to treat phobias and other behavior problems involving anxiety. client is exposed to the threatening situation under relaxed conditions until the anxiety reaction is extinguished
sin;(colloquial) violent and excited activity. 'they began to fight like sin'
vaunt;extravagant self-praise
egression;the act of coming (or going) out. becoming apparent
extension course;a course offered as part of an extension service
discovery;something that is discovered
depression;pushing down. 'depression of the space bar on the typewriter'
physiotherapy;therapy that uses physical agents: exercise and massage and other modalities
convocation;the act of convoking
encirclement;a war measure that isolates some area of importance to the enemy
combing;the act of drawing a comb through hair. 'his hair needed a comb'
navarino;a naval battle in the war of greek independence (1827). the turkish and egyptian fleet was defeated by the allied fleet
sprinkling;a light shower that falls in some locations and not others nearby
child s play;any activity that is easy to do. 'marketing this product will be no picnic'
covering;the work of applying something. 'the doctor prescribed a topical application of iodine'. 'a complete bleach requires several applications'. 'the surface was ready for a coating of paint'.
urban planning;determining and drawing up plans for the future physical arrangement and condition of a community
detribalisation;the act of causing tribal people to abandon their customs and adopt urban ways of living
expulsion;the act of expelling or projecting or ejecting
fog;an atmosphere in which visibility is reduced because of a cloud of some substance
imaging;(medicine) obtaining pictures of the interior of the body
rationalisation;systematic organization
patronage;(politics) granting favors or giving contracts or making appointments to office in return for political support
legalisation;the act of legalizing
straining;an intense or violent exertion
variety show;a show consisting of a series of short unrelated performances
aegates isles;islands west of sicily (now known as the egadi islands) where the romans won a naval victory over the carthaginians that ended the first punic war in 241 bc
covering;the act of protecting something by covering it
misrule;government that is inefficient or dishonest
contempt of court;disrespect for the rules of a court of law
exploratory survey;exploring in order to gain information
mediation;the act of mediating
indexing;the act of classifying and providing an index in order to make items easier to retrieve
cotillion;a lively dance originating in france in the 18th century
review;a variety show with topical sketches and songs and dancing and comedians
cat s cradle;game played with string looped over the fingers
battle of naseby;a battle in 1645 that settled the outcome of the first english civil war as the parliamentarians won a major victory over the royalists
dactyl;a metrical unit with stressed-unstressed-unstressed syllables
domesticity;domestic activities or life: 'making a hobby of domesticity'
peloponnesian war;a war in which athens and its allies were defeated by the league centered on sparta. 431-404 bc
contact;a communicative interaction. 'the pilot made contact with the base'. 'he got in touch with his colleagues'
republishing;publishing again
chauvinism;activity indicative of belief in the superiority of men over women
seclusion;the act of secluding yourself from others
marauding;the practice of plundering in gangs
bang;a conspicuous success. 'that song was his first hit and marked the beginning of his career'
mapmaking;the making of maps and charts
dirt;disgraceful gossip about the private lives of other people
enquiry;a systematic investigation of a matter of public interest
caress;a gentle affectionate stroking (or something resembling it). 'he showered her with caresses'. 'soft music was a fond caress'. 'the caresses of the breeze played over his face'
half nelson;a wrestling hold in which the holder puts an arm under the opponent's arm and exerts press on the back of the neck
vasoconstriction;decrease in the diameter of blood vessels
cutting;cutting away parts to create a desired shape
lease lend;the transfer of goods and services to an ally to aid in a common cause. 'lend-lease during world war ii was extremely generous'
april fool;a practical joke or trick played on april fools' day
regularisation;the imposition of a standard
tombola;(british) a lottery in which tickets are drawn from a revolving drum
briefing;giving detailed instructions, as for a military operation
spinning;creating thread
landler;a moderately slow austrian country dance in triple time. involves spinning and clapping
telephone order;receiving orders via telephone
braggadocio;vain and empty boasting
quickstep;a march accompanying quick time
private treaty;a sale of property at a price agreed on by the seller and buyer without an intervening agency
crutch;anything that serves as an expedient. 'he uses drugs as a psychological crutch'
modified radical mastectomy;removal of a breast and the pectoralis minor and some lymph nodes in the adjacent armpit
commercial activity;activity undertaken as part of a commercial enterprise
enquiry;an instance of questioning. 'there was a question about my training'. 'we made inquiries of all those who were present'
subsistence farming;farming that provides for the basic needs of the farmer without surpluses for marketing
scan;the act of scanning. systematic examination of a prescribed region. 'he made a thorough scan of the beach with his binoculars'
fan dance;a solo dance in which large fans are manipulated to suggest or reveal nakedness
faro;a card game in which players bet against the dealer on the cards he will draw from a dealing box
deviationism;ideological defection from the party line (especially from orthodox communism)
conveying;act of transferring property title from one person to another
nurture;raising someone to be an accepted member of the community. 'they debated whether nature or nurture was more important'
folly;foolish or senseless behavior
gin rummy;a form of rummy in which a player can go out if the cards remaining in their hand total less than 10 points
intermezzo;a brief show (music or dance etc) performed between the sections of another performance
chinook;a warm dry wind blowing down the e slopes of the rockies
ypres;battle in world war i (1915). germans wanted to try chlorine (a toxic yellow gas) as a weapon and succeeded in taking considerable territory from the allied salient
grumbling;a complaint uttered in a low and indistinct tone
smack;an enthusiastic kiss
snickersnee;fighting with knives
ingraining;teaching or impressing upon the mind by frequent instruction or repetition
vaulting;a light leap by a horse in which both hind legs leave the ground before the forelegs come down
saturnalia;an orgiastic festival in ancient rome in honor of saturn
anatomy;a detailed analysis. 'he studied the anatomy of crimes'
service;the act of public worship following prescribed rules. 'the sunday service'
electric shock;the use of electric shock as a form of punishment
erection;the act of building or putting up
february revolution;the revolution against the czarist government. march 1917
clearing;the act of freeing from suspicion
illusion;an illusory feat. considered magical by naive observers
farming;the practice of cultivating the land or raising stock
judgement by default;a judgment entered in favor of the plaintiff when the defendant defaults (fails to appear in court)
action;a judicial proceeding brought by one party against another. one party prosecutes another for a wrong done or for protection of a right or for prevention of a wrong
chaplainship;the position of chaplain
engagement;a job for performers or performing groups that lasts for a limited period of time. 'the play had bookings throughout the summer'
placement;the act of putting something in a certain place or location
execution;the act of doing something successfully. using knowledge as distinguished from merely possessing it. 'experience generally improves performance'
jam;deliberate radiation or reflection of electromagnetic energy for the purpose of disrupting enemy use of electronic devices or systems
mail order buying;buying goods to be shipped through the mail
clog dancing;a dance performed while wearing clogs. has heavy stamping steps
statement;the act of affirming or asserting or stating something
rendering;the act of interpreting something as expressed in an artistic performance
aquiculture;a technique of growing plants (without soil) in water containing dissolved nutrients
norther;a wind from the north
fund raising effort;a campaign to raise money for some cause
horse opera;a film about life in the western us during the period of exploration and development
south wind;a wind from the south
concentration;bringing together military forces
peril;a venture undertaken without regard to possible loss or injury. 'he saw the rewards but not the risks of crime'. 'there was a danger he would do the wrong thing'
gallantry;polite attentiveness to women
draftsmanship;the creation of artistic drawings. 'he learned drawing from his father'
lifesaving;saving the lives of drowning persons. 'he took a course in lifesaving'
talk show;a program during which well-known people discuss a topic or answer questions telephoned in by the audience
digitalisation;the administration of digitalis for the treatment of certain heart disorders
snatch;a weightlift in which the barbell is lifted overhead in one rapid motion
ambuscade;the act of concealing yourself and lying in wait to attack by surprise
miracle worship;worship of miracles
face saver;an act that avoids a loss of face (of dignity or prestige)
leg curling;an exercise designed to strength the flexor muscles of the leg
hummer;a baseball thrown with maximum velocity. 'he swung late on the fastball'. 'he showed the batters nothing but smoke'
watch;a devotional watch (especially on the eve of a religious festival)
legal transfer;the voluntary transfer of something (title or possession) from one party to another
concurrence;agreement of results or opinions
secretary of war;head of a former executive department. combined with the navy secretary to form the defense secretary in 1947
service;work done by one person or group that benefits another. 'budget separately for goods and services'
embarkation;the act of passengers and crew getting aboard a ship or aircraft
tuition;teaching individually pupils (usually hired privately)
approving;the formal act of giving approval: 'he gave the project his blessing'. 'his decision merited the approval of any sensible person'
matriculation;admission to a group (especially a college or university)
fast;abstaining from food
legislating;the act of legislating
manoeuvre;an action aimed at evading an enemy
swing;a style of jazz played by big bands popular in the 1930s. flowing rhythms but less complex than later styles of jazz
vapor bath;you sweat in a steam room before getting a rubdown and cold shower
visitation;an official call for inspection or supervision. 'the commissioner made visits to all the precinct stations'
plebiscite;a vote by the electorate determining public opinion on a question of national importance
chrism;a consecrated mixture of oil and balsam
cupping;a treatment in which evacuated cups are applied to the skin to draw blood through the surface
liberation;the act of liberating someone or something
entrance;the act of entering. 'she made a grand entrance'
socialization;the adoption of the behavior patterns of the surrounding culture
stowing;the act of packing or storing away
freight;transporting goods commercially at rates cheaper than express rates
receivership;the office of a receiver
readjustment;the act of adjusting something to match a standard
division;discord that splits a group
flip;an acrobatic feat in which the feet roll over the head (either forward or backward) and return
stroke play;golf scoring by total strokes taken
heaving;throwing something heavy (with great effort). 'he gave it a mighty heave'. 'he was not good at heaving passes'
onset;the beginning of an offensive. 'the attack began at dawn'
outlet;activity that releases or expresses creative energy or emotion. 'she had no other outlet for her feelings'
manipulative electronic deception;actions to eliminate revealing telltale indicators that could be used by the enemy (or to convey misleading indicators)
battle of cynoscephalae;the battle that ended the second macedonian war (197 bc). the romans defeated king philip of macedon
epilog;a short speech (often in verse) addressed directly to the audience by an actor at the end of a play
tally;the act of counting
programme;a radio or television show. 'did you see his program last night?'
black maria;a form of whist in which players avoid winning tricks containing hearts of the queen of spades
proving;the act of finding or testing the truth of something
longways dance;country dancing performed with couples in two long lines facing each other
blowout;a gay festivity
race riot;a riot caused by hatred for one another of members of different races in the same community
finding;the act of discovering something
countersubversion;the aspect of counterintelligence designed to detect and prevent subversive activities
burning at the stake;execution by fire
diversion;an attack calculated to draw enemy defense away from the point of the principal attack
babysitting;the work of a baby sitter. caring for children when their parents are not home
demand;the act of demanding. 'the kidnapper's exorbitant demands for money'
mobilization;act of assembling or organizing and making ready for use or action: 'mobiliation of the country's economic resources'. 'marshaling public support'
gaining control;the act of forcibly dispossessing an owner of property
inspissation;the act of thickening
cartography;the making of maps and charts
moderatorship;the position of moderator
fasting;abstaining from food
tiff;petty quarrel
frisking;the act of searching someone for concealed weapons
social insurance;government provision for unemployed or injured or aged. financed by contributions from employers and employees as well as by government revenue
gentle wind;a slight wind (usually refreshing). 'the breeze was cooled by the lake'
golf game;a game played on a large open course with 9 or 18 holes. the object is use as few strokes as possible in playing all the holes
gradation;the act of arranging in grades
numismatology;the collection and study of money (and coins in particular)
petition;reverent petition to a deity
sleuthing;the investigation of criminal activities to determine the perpetrator. 'detection is hard on the feet'
friction;effort expended in rubbing one object against another
pleven;the town was taken from the turks by the russians in 1877 after a siege of 143 days
craft;the skilled practice of a practical occupation. 'he learned his trade as an apprentice'
leg pull;as a joke: trying to make somebody believe something that is not true
bluster;vain and empty boasting
receiving;the act of receiving
grasping;the act of gripping something firmly with the hands
disagreeable task;a chore that causes discomfort
dissuasion;persuasion not to do something. the act of talking someone out of an intended course of action
gripe;informal terms for objecting. 'i have a gripe about the service here'
military march;brisk marching music suitable for troops marching in a military parade
dealing;the act of transacting within or between groups (as carrying on commercial activities). 'no transactions are possible without him'. 'he has always been honest is his dealings with me'"an action with at least two agents and a patient having other actions as parts. the patient partecipant is exchanged between the agents.""the act of transacting within or between groups (as carrying on commercial activities). 'no transactions are possible without him'. 'he has always been honest is his dealings with me'"
chaeronea;a battle in which philip of macedon defeated the athenians and thebans (338 bc) and also sulla defeated mithridates (86 bc)
stud;poker in which each player receives hole cards and the remainder are dealt face up. bets are placed after each card is dealt
racket;an illegal enterprise (such as extortion or fraud or drug peddling or prostitution) carried on for profit
finding;the act of determining the properties of somethingthe act of determining the properties of something
guiding;the act of guiding or showing the way
recitation;an instance of a student reciting a lesson that has been learned
influence;causing something without any direct or apparent effort
sympathetic strike;a strike in support of other workers who are on strike. a strike not resulting from direct grievances against the workers' employer
world affairs;affairs between nations. 'you can't really keep up with world affairs by watching television'
autoregulation;(physiology) maintaining a generally constant physiological state in a cell or organism
business enterprise;"the activity of providing goods and services involving financial and commercial and industrial aspects. 'computers are now widely used in business'"the activity of providing goods and services involving financial and commercial and industrial aspects. 'computers are now widely used in business'
shake up;the act of imposing a new organization
sensing;becoming aware of something via the senses
electronic mail;(computer science) a system of world-wide electronic communication in which a computer user can compose a message at one terminal that is generated at the recipient's terminal when he logs in
back circle;a feat in which an acrobat arches the back from a prone position and bends the knees until the toes touch the head
air attack;an attack by armed planes on a surface target
qualifying;success in satisfying a test or requirement. 'his future depended on his passing that test'. 'he got a pass in introductory chemistry'
cryosurgery;the use of extreme cold (usually liquid nitrogen) to destroy unwanted tissue (warts or cataracts or skin cancers)
lawsuit;(law) a comprehensive term for any proceeding in a court of law whereby an individual seeks a legal remedy. 'the family brought suit against the landlord'
pulverisation;the act of grinding
delegation;authorizing subordinates to make certain decisions
fixing;(histology) the preservation and hardening of a tissue sample to retain as nearly as possible the same relations they had in the living body
self organisation;organizing yourself (especially organizing your own labor union)
extension service;an educational opportunity provided by colleges and universities to people who not enrolled as regular students
conciliation;the act of placating
promenade;a square dance figure. couples march counterclockwise in a circle
exhortation;a communication intended to urge or persuade the recipients to take some action
demagogy;impassioned appeals to the prejudices and emotions of the populace
self defense;the act of defending yourself
loft bombing;a bombing run in which the bomber approaches the target at a low altitude and pulls up just before releasing the bomb
decryption;the activity of making clear or converting from code into plain text
swedish massage;massage combined with a system of active and passive exercises for the muscles and joints
give and take;mutual interaction. the activity of interchanging or reciprocating
able bodism;discrimination in favor of the able-bodied
stipulation;a restriction that is insisted upon as a condition for an agreement
arrival;accomplishment of an objective
romanticisation;the act of indulging in sentiment
diving;a headlong plunge into water
lieutenancy;the position of a lieutenant
course of study;education imparted in a series of lessons or class meetings. 'he took a course in basket weaving'. 'flirting is not unknown in college classes'
co op;a commercial enterprise run for the benefit of its owners
airing;opening to public discussion and debate
cost accounting;keeping account of the costs of items in production
dissipation;useless or profitless activity. using or expending or consuming thoughtlessly or carelessly: 'if the effort brings no compensating gain it is a waste'. 'mindless dissipaton of natural resources'
noncompliance;the failure to obey
interlocking;the act of interlocking or meshing. 'an interlocking of arms by the police held the crowd in check'
dealing;method or manner of conduct in relation to others: 'honest dealing'
obstructionism;deliberate interference
biz;informal terms for your occupation. 'he's in the plumbing game'. 'she's in show biz'
jettison;throwing cargo overboard to lighten the load when in distress
three ring circus;a circus with simultaneous performances in three rings
spanish american war;a war between the us and spain in 1898
baritone voice;the second lowest adult male singing voice
celebration;any festival or other celebration
custody;(with 'in') guardianship over. 'my fate is in your hands'. 'too much power in the president's hands'. 'the children are in the custody of their mother'
calumny;the act of defaming
boat racing;the sport of racing boats
managing;the act of managing something. 'he was given overall management of the program'. 'is the direction of the economy a function of government?'
leap;a light springing movement upwards or forwards
jab;the act of touching someone suddenly with your finger or elbow. 'she gave me a sharp dig in the ribs'
punk;rock music with deliberately offensive lyrics expressing anger and social alienation
underpayment;the act of paying less than required
logic programming;creating a program that enables the computer to reason logically
solo;any activity that is performed alone without assistance
indulgence;the act of indulging or gratifying a desire
pull;the act of pulling. applying force to move something toward or with you. 'the pull up the hill had him breathing harder'. 'his strenuous pulling strained his back'
fiber optics;the transmission of light signals via glass fibers
stage business;incidental activity performed by an actor for dramatic effect. 'his business with the cane was hilarious'
carpentry;the craft of a carpenter: making things out of wood
wrestling hold;a hold used in the sport of wrestling
chlorination;disinfection of water by the addition of small amounts of chlorine or a chlorine compound
standardization;the imposition of a standard
reconciliation;the reestablishing of cordial relations
low;an air mass of lower pressure. often brings precipitation. 'a low moved in over night bringing sleet and snow'
bakke decision;a ruling by the supreme court on affirmative action. the court ruled in 1978 that medical schools are entitled to consider race as a factor in their admission policy
diversionary landing;an amphibious diversionary attack
juggling;the act of rearranging things to give a misleading impression
line drive;the act of hitting a baseball so that it flies straight out from the batter. 'the batter hit a liner to the shortstop'
bowls;lawn bowling at a jack using biased wooden balls
query;an instance of questioning. 'there was a question about my training'. 'we made inquiries of all those who were present'
shell collecting;the collection and study of mollusc shells
house arrest;confinement to your own home
slating;the act of laying slates for a roof
royal road;an auspicious way or means to achieve something: 'the royal road to success'
chastity;abstaining from sexual relations
movie;a form of entertainment that enacts a story by a sequence of images giving the illusion of continuous movement. 'they went to a movie every saturday night'. 'the film was shot on location'
extradition;the surrender of an accused or convicted person by one state or country to another (usually under the provisions of a statute or treaty)
locating;the act of putting something in a certain place or location
self denial;the act of denying yourself. controlling your impulses
tic tac toe;a game in which two players alternately put crosses and circles in one of the compartments of a 3-by-3 board. the object is to get a row of three crosses or three circles before the opponent does
medical exam;a thorough physical examination. includes a variety of tests depending on the age and sex and health of the person
self control;the act of denying yourself. controlling your impulses
variety;a show consisting of a series of short unrelated performances
bullfighting;the activity at a bullfight
fumigation;the application of a gas or smoke to something for the purpose of disinfecting it
ranting;bombastic declamation
office;a job in an organization or hierarchy. 'he ocupied a post in the treasury'
medical checkup;a thorough physical examination. includes a variety of tests depending on the age and sex and health of the person
wrangle;an angry dispute. 'they had a quarrel'. 'they had words'
dune cycling;bicycling or motorcycling on sand dunes
cadetship;the position of cadet
dispute;a disagreement or argument about something important. 'he had a dispute with his wife'. 'there were irreconcilable differences'. 'the familiar conflict between republicans and democrats'
stabilization;the act of stabilizing. 'he worked for price stabilization for farm products'
non engagement;withdrawing from the activities of a group
southwester;a strong wind from the southwest
resort;act of turning to for assistance: 'have recourse to the courts'. 'an appeal to his uncle was his last resort'
group participation;participation by all members of a group
iambus;a metrical unit with unstressed-stressed syllables
assigning;the act of distributing something to designated places or persons. 'the first task is the assignment of an address to each datum'
prayer;earnest or urgent request
amortisation;payment of an obligation in a series of installments or transfers
exaltation;the elevation of a person to the status of a god
muttering;a complaint uttered in a low and indistinct tone
elevation;the act of raising something. 'he responded with a lift of his eyebrow'. 'fireman learn several different raises for getting ladders up'
inertial navigation;a method of controlling the flight of a missile by devices that respond to inertial forces
despatch;the act of sending off something
self realisation;the fulfillment of your capacities
attendance;the act of being present (at a meeting or event etc.)
stowage;the act of packing or storing away
bombing run;that part of the flight that begins with the approach to the target. includes target acquisition and ends with the release of the bombs
fishing;the occupation of catching fish
blessing;a ceremonial prayer invoking divine protection
decolonisation;the action of changing from colonial to independent status
theology;the learned profession acquired by specialized courses in religion (usually taught at a college or seminary). 'he studied theology at oxford'
hunting;the pursuit and killing or capture of wild animals regarded as a sport
pyrotechnics;the craft of making fireworks
retrenchment;the reduction of expenditures in order to become financial stable
crapette;two play solitaire with separate packs
screed;a long monotonous harangue
tetralogy;a series of four related works (plays or operas or novels)
homeopathy;a method of treating disease with small amounts of remedies that, in large amounts in healthy people, produce symptoms similar to those being treated
issus;a battle (333 bc) in which alexander the great defeated the persians under darius iii
interest;a subject or pursuit that occupies one's time and thoughts (usually pleasantly): 'sailing is her favorite pastime'. 'his main pastime is gambling'. 'he counts reading among his interests'. 'they criticized the boy for his limited interests'
bel canto;a style of operatic singing
bookbinding;the craft of binding books
penalization;the act of punishing
theater;the art of writing and producing plays
vowel rhyme;the repetition of similar vowels in the stressed syllables of successive words
conveyance;act of transferring property title from one person to another
politeness;the act of showing regard for others
iamb;a metrical unit with unstressed-stressed syllables
propulsion;the act of propelling
belligerency;acts of overt warfare. 'the outbreak of hostilities'
personification;the act of attributing human characteristics to abstract ideas etc.
arrangement;the act of arranging a piece of music
helm;a position of leadership: 'the president is at the helm of the ship of state'
reservation;the act of reserving (a place or passage) or engaging the services of (a person or group): 'wondered who had made the booking'
communion;sharing thoughts and feelings
rising;organized opposition to authority. a conflict in which one faction tries to wrest control from another
pardon;the formal act of liberating someone
lexicography;the act of writing dictionaries
cut;an unexcused absence from class. 'he was punished for taking too many cuts in his math class'
makeready;final preparation and adjustments
lip;an impudent or insolent rejoinder. 'don't give me any of your sass'
rhytidectomy;an operation to remove wrinkles and other signs of aging from your face
aggression;violent action that is hostile and usually unprovoked
magic trick;an illusory feat. considered magical by naive observers
dribble;the propulsion of a ball by repeated taps or kicks
strip;a form of entertainment in which a dancer undresses to music. 'she did a strip right in front of everyone'
emergency landing;an unscheduled airplane landing that is made under circumstances (engine failure or adverse weather) not under the pilot's control
production;the act or process of producing something. 'shakespeare's production of poetry was enormous'. 'the production of white blood cells'
cure all;a remedy for all ills or diseases
projection;the act of expelling or projecting or ejecting
revel;unrestrained merrymaking
japanese stranglehold;a wrestling hold in which the opponent's arms are crossed in front of his own neck to exert pressure on his windpipe
war;a concerted campaign to end something that is injurious. 'the war on poverty'. 'the war against crime'
calf roping;capturing a calf with a lasso and binding its feet
lam;a rapid escape (as by criminals). 'the thieves made a clean getaway'. 'after the expose he had to take it on the lam'
sensitisation;rendering an organism sensitive to a serum by a series of injections
child care;a service involving care for other people's children
music hall;a variety show with songs and comic acts etc.
dispensation;an exemption from some rule or obligation
flight maneuver;an evasive maneuver by an aircraft
packaging;the business of packaging
burst;a sudden flurry of activity (often for no obvious reason). 'a burst of applause'. 'a fit of housecleaning'
overcast;a cast that falls beyond the intended spot
delivery;the act of delivering a child
rental;the act of renting (an apartment or house or car)
stint;an individuals prescribed share of work: 'her stint as a lifeguard exhausted her'
secret ballot;a vote in which each person's choice is secret by the totaled votes are public
internal rhyme;a rhyme between words in the same line
conformity;acting according to certain accepted standards
poker game;any of various card games in which players bet that they hold the highest-ranking hand
spoonfeeding;teaching in an overly simplified way that discourages independent thought
countermine;(military) a tunnel dug to defeat similar activities by the enemy
snorkeling;skin diving with a snorkel
reccy;reconnaissance (by shortening)
reciprocal inhibition therapy;a method of behavior therapy based on the inhibition of one response by the occurrence of another response that is mutually incompatible with it. a relaxation response might be conditioned to a stimulus that previously evoked anxiety
preliminary exam;an examination taken by graduate students to determine their fitness to continue
actualisation;making real or giving the appearance of reality
flip;the act of flipping a coin
class warfare;conflict between social or economic classes (especially between the capitalist and proletariat classes)
road;a way or means to achieve something. 'the road to fame'
line drive single;a single resulting from a line drive
tow;the act of hauling something (as a vehicle) by means of a hitch or rope. 'the truck gave him a tow to the garage'
capacity;the maximum production possible
snap;the act of catching an object with the hands. 'mays made the catch with his back to the plate'
eightsome;a scottish reel for eight dancers
follow up;a second (or subsequent) examination
encampment;the act of encamping and living in tents in a camp
popularization;an interpretation that easily understandable and acceptable
radio observation;an observation made with a radio telescope
basket rummy;a form of rummy using two decks and four jokers. jokers and deuces are wild. the object is to meld groups of seven of the same rank
strike;an attack that is intended to seize or inflict damage on or destroy an objective. 'the strike was scheduled to begin at dawn'
control experiment;an experiment designed to control for variables affecting the results of another experiment
fine;the act of imposing a fine
contempt;a willful disobedience to or disrespect for the authority of a court or legislative body
suppressive fire;fire on or about a weapon system to degrade its performance below what is needed to fulfill its mission objectives
hat;an informal term for a person's role. 'he took off his politician's hat and talked frankly'
reordering;a rearrangement in a different order
discord;a discordant act
demur;(law) a formal objection to an opponent's pleadings
overexposure;the act of exposing film to too much light or for too long a time
quitclaim;act of transferring a title or right or claim to another
abnegation;renunciation of your own interests in favor of the interests of others
merriment;activities that are enjoyable or amusing. 'i do it for the fun of it'. 'he is fun to have around'
yarn;an account describing incidents or events. 'after dinner he told the children stories of his adventures'
magenta;a battle in 1859 in which the franco-sardinian forces under napoleon iii defeated the austrians under francis joseph
chemical warfare;warfare using chemical agents to kill or injure or incapacitate the enemy
charge;a formal statement of a command or injunction to do something. 'the judge's charge to the jury'
line;(often plural) a means of communication or access. 'it must go through official channels'. 'lines of communication were set up between the two firms'
syndication;organizing into or administering as a syndicate
outlay;the act of spending or disbursing money
celibacy;abstaining from sexual relations
holy sacrament;a christian sacrament commemorating the last supper by consecrating bread and wine
facilitation;act of assisting or making easier the progress or improvement of something
shock;the violent interaction of individuals or groups entering into combat
antiaircraft fire;firing at enemy aircraft
diagnostic procedure;a procedure followed in making a medical diagnosis
ecarte;a card game for 2 players. played with 32 cards and king high
aquatint;a method of etching that imitates the broad washes of a water color
challenge;questioning a statement and demanding an explanation. 'he challenged the assumption that japan is our enemy'
fisticuffs;fighting with the fists
synchronisation;an adjustment that causes something to occur or recur in unison
electronic surveillance;surveillance by electronic means (e.g. television)
singsong;(british) informal group singing of popular songs
valediction;a farewell oration delivered by the most outstanding member of a graduating class
divorcement;the legal dissolution of a marriage
russian revolution;the coup d'etat in november 1917 that establish a soviet government
comb out;the act of removing tangles from you hair with a comb
feud;a bitter quarrel between two parties
acquiring;the act of acquiring something. 'i envied his talent for acquiring new friends'. 'did you hear about his getting a car?'
dance music;music composed for ballroom dancing
possession;the act of possessing. 'they took possession of the ball'
instrument landing;an aircraft landing made entirely by means of instruments
crow;an instance of boastful talk. 'his brag is worse than his fight'
thoughtfulness;a considerate and thoughtful act
sequestration;the act of segregating or sequestering
bootlegging;the act of making of transporting alcoholic liquor for sale illegally. 'the prohibition amendment made bootlegging profitable'
operation;a military or naval action (as a maneuver or campaign). 'it was a joint operation of the navy and air force'
custody case;a legal action to determine custody (usually of children following a divorce)
television show;a program broadcast by television
leading off;the act of enticing others into sinful ways
temporary expedient;an unplanned expedient
donkeywork;hard monotonous routine work
support;the act of bearing the weight of or strengthening. 'he leaned against the wall for support'. 'they forded the stream supporting their packs over their heads'
trephination;a operation that removes a circular section of bone from the skull
headlock;a wrestling hold in which the opponent's head is locked between the crook of your elbow and the side of your body
philanthropic gift;voluntary promotion of human welfare
passive air defense;air defense by the use of deception or dispersion or protective construction
bridge whist;the earliest form of bridge. the dealer could name the trump suit
dead reckoning;navigation without the aid of celestial observations
duckpins;a bowling game using a pin smaller than a tenpin but proportionately wider
instruction;the profession of a teacher. 'he prepared for teaching while still in college'. 'pedagogy is recognized as an important profession'
plastering;the application of plaster
storminess;the state of being stormy. 'he dreaded the storminess of the north atlantic in winter'
turnaround;act or process of unloading and loading and servicing a vessel or aircraft for a return trip
prognosis;a prediction of the course of a disease
demagoguery;impassioned appeals to the prejudices and emotions of the populace
homer;a base hit on which the batter scores a run
glorious revolution;the revolution against james ii of england. there was little armed resistance to william and mary in england altho battles were fought in scotland and ireland (1688-1689)
nonviolence;peaceful resistance to a government by fasting or refusing to cooperate
course of lectures;a series of lectures dealing with a subject
equestrian sport;a sport that tests horsemanship
indirection;indirect procedure or action. 'he tried to find out by indirection'
clerkship;the job of clerk
escape;the act of escaping physically. 'he made his escape from the mental hospital'. 'the canary escaped from its cage'. 'his flight was an indication of his guilt'
flogging;beating with a whip or strap or rope as a form of punishment
short subject;a brief film. often shown prior to showing the feature
disproving;the act of determining that something is false
poll;the counting of votes (as in an election)
physical exertion;the activity of exerting you muscles in various was to keep fit. 'the doctor recommended regular exercise'. 'he did some exercising'. 'the physical exertion required by his work kept him fit'
wester;a wind from the west
regulation;the act of regulating. 'fiscal regulations are in the hands of politicians'
creating from raw materials;the act of creating something that is different from the materials that went into it
acrobatic feat;a stunt performed by an acrobat
lawn tennis;a game played with rackets by two or four players who hit a ball back and forth over a net that divides the court
deliverance;recovery or preservation from loss or danger. 'work is the deliverance of mankind' or 'a surgeon's job is the saving of lives'
romp;gay or light-hearted recreational activity for diversion or amusement. 'it was all done in play'. 'their frolic in the surf threatened to become ugly'
protecting;the activity of protecting someone or something. 'the witnesses demanded police protection'. 'he hated to spend so much time guarding his new car'the activity of protecting someone or something. 'the witnesses demanded police protection'. 'he hated to spend so much time guarding his new car'
employee owned enterprise;a commercial enterprise owned by the people who work for it
avocation;an auxiliary activity
registration fire;fire delivered to obtain accurate data for subsequent effective engagement of targets
fresco;a durable method of painting on a wall by using watercolors on wet plaster
bacchanalia;an orgiastic festival in ancient greece in honor of dionysus (= bacchus)
misdirection;an incorrect charge to a jury given by a judge
drive;the act of applying force to propel something. 'after reaching the desired velocity the drive is cut off'
virga;light rain that evaporates before it reaches the ground
medicaid;health care for the needy. a federally and state-funded program
tracheostomy;a surgical operation that creates an opening into the trachea with a tube inserted to provide a passage for air. performed when the pharynx is obstructed by edema or cancer or other causes
constraint;the act of constraining
recital;a public instance of reciting or repeating something prepared. 'the program included songs and recitations of well-loved poems'
stalk;a hunt for game carried on by stalking or waiting in ambush
supporting;the act of bearing the weight of or strengthening. 'he leaned against the wall for support'. 'they forded the stream supporting their packs over their heads'
unearned run;a run that was scored as a result of an error by the other team
scorched earth policy;the target company defends itself by selling off its crown jewels
jumping up and down;jumping in one spot (as in excitement). 'the wailing and jumping up and down exhausted him'
exposure;the act of subjecting someone to an influencing experience. 'she denounced the exposure of children to pornography'
belly dance;a middle eastern dance in which the dancer makes sensuous movements of the hips and abdomen
baseball game;a game played with a bat and ball between two teams of 9 players. teams take turns at bat trying to score run
compressing;applying pressure
recovery;the act of regaining or saving something lost (or in danger of becoming lost)
roll;a type of dance music originating in the 1950s. a blend of rhythm-and-blues with country-and-western
logrolling;act of exchanging favors for mutual gain. especially trading of influence or votes among legislators to gain passage of certain projects
battle of granicus river;the battle in which alexander won his first major victory against the persians (334 bc)
discordance;a discordant act
heave;throwing something heavy (with great effort). 'he gave it a mighty heave'. 'he was not good at heaving passes'
idiolatry;worship of yourself
dismissal;a judgment disposing of the matter without a trial
misdating;something located at a time when it could not have existed or occurred
demurral;(law) a formal objection to an opponent's pleadings
procedure;a particular course of action intended to achieve a results. 'the procedure of obtaining a driver's license'. 'it was a process of trial and error'
elint;intelligence derived from non-communications electromagnetic radiations from foreign sources (other than radioactive sources)
prostatectomy;surgical removal of part or all of the prostate gland
commission;the act of granting authority to undertake certain functions
going;advancing toward a goal. 'persuading him was easy going' or 'the proposal faces tough sledding'
quadrille;a square dance of 5 or more figures for 4 or more couples
least resistance;the least effortful way to do something
bill of review;a proceeding brought to obtain an explanation or an alteration or a reversal of a decree by the court that rended it
help;the activity of contributing to the fulfillment of a need or furtherance of an effort or purpose: 'he gave me an assist with the housework'. 'could not walk without assistance'. 'rescue party went to their aid'. 'offered his help in unloading'
double;raising the stakes in a card game by a factor of 2. 'i decided his double was a bluff'
fighting;the act of fighting. any contest or struggle. 'a fight broke out at the hockey game'. 'there was fighting in the streets'
battle of waterloo;the battle on 18 june 1815 in which napoleon met his final defeat. prussian and british forces under blucher and the duke of wellington routed the french forces under napoleon
speciality;the special line of work you have adopted as your career. 'his specialization is gastroenterology'
little office;a roman catholic office honoring the virgin mary. similar to but shorter than the divine office
dibrach;a metrical unit with unstressed-unstressed syllables
valmy;the french defeated the austrian and prussian troops in 1792 (with a famous cannonade from the french artillery)
eye lotion;a solution used as a cleanser for the eyes
satisfying;act of fulfilling a desire or need or appetite. 'the satisfaction of their demand for better services'
standing operating procedure;a prescribed procedure to be followed routinely
opposition;the act of opposing groups confronting each other. 'the government was not ready for a confrontation with the unions'. 'the invaders encountered stiff opposition'
aspersion;the act of defaming
word;a verbal command for action. 'when i give the word, charge!'
napoleonic wars;a series of wars fought between france (led by napoleon bonaparte) and alliances involving england and prussia and russia and austria at different times. 1799-1815
devisal;the act of devising something
hula hula;a polynesian rain dance performed by a woman
goal;a successful attempt at scoring. 'the winning goal came with less than a minute left to play'
championship;the act of providing approval and support. 'his vigorous backing of the conservatives got him in trouble with progressives'
trap;the act of concealing yourself and lying in wait to attack by surprise
steel engraving;the act of engraving on a steel plate
onslaught;the beginning of an offensive. 'the attack began at dawn'
recce;reconnaissance (by shortening)
rumour;gossip (usually a mixture of truth and untruth) passed around by word of mouth
piano lesson;a lesson in playing the piano
flower gardening;the cultivation of flowering plants
absence without leave;unauthorized military absence
parcelling;the act of distributing by allotting or apportioning. 'the apportionment of seats in the house of representatives is based on the relative populaton of each state'
cultivation;socialization through training and education
bluster;a violent gusty wind
tannenberg;a battle in world war i (1914). decisive german victory over the russians
drogheda;in 1649 the place was captured by oliver cromwell, who massacred the catholic inhabitants
conscription;compulsory military service
occupancy;the act of occupying or taking possession of a building. 'occupation of a building without a certificate of occupancy is illegal'
court;respectful deference. 'pay court to the emperor'
raving;declaiming wildly
mensuration;the act or process of measuring. 'he made a careful measurement'. 'his mental measurings proved remarkably accurate'
jailbreak;an escape from jail. 'the breakout was carefully planned'
cholelithotomy;removal of gallstone through an incision in the gallbladder
devolvement;the delegation of authority (especially from a central to a regional government)
circumcision;a jewish and muslim religious rite performed on a male 8 days after birth.
receding;a act of becoming more distant
surgical procedure;a therapeutic procedure with instruments to repair damage or arrest disease in a living body. 'they will schedule the operation as soon as an operating room is available'. 'he died while undergoing surgery'
underground railroad;abolitionists secret aid to escaping slaves. pre-civil war in us
deputation;authorizing subordinates to make certain decisions
reassignment;assignment to a different duty
recoding;converting from one code to another
soul;the human embodiment of something. 'the soul of honor'
covert operation;an intelligence operation so planned as to permit plausible denial by the sponsor
sprinkling;the act of sprinkling water in baptism (rare)
point after;a score in american football made on a try for points after a touchdown
tonsillectomy;surgical removal of the palatine tonsils. commonly performed along with adenoidectomy
roentgenography;radiography that uses x-rays to produce a roentgenogram
st mihiel;a battle in the meuse-argonne operation in world war i (1918). the battle in which american troops launched their first offensive in france
ground ball;the act of hitting a baseball along the ground
conflict;an open clash between two opposing groups (or individuals). 'the harder the conflict the more glorious the triumph'--thomas paine. 'police tried to control the battle between the pro- and anti-abortion mobs'
convoy;the act of escorting while in transit
mockery;humorous or satirical mimicry
comptrollership;the position of comptroller
babbitting;lining a surface or bearing with babbitt metal
wrestling;the act of engaging in close hand-to-hand combat. 'they had a fierce wrestle'. 'we watched his grappling and wrestling with the bully'
eucharistic liturgy;a christian sacrament commemorating the last supper by consecrating bread and wine
seduction;enticing someone astray from right behavior
brag;an instance of boastful talk. 'his brag is worse than his fight'
measure;(prosody) the accent in a metrical foot of verse
amputation;a surgical removal of all or part of a limb
ninepins;bowling down an alley at a target of nine wooden pins
rulership;the position of ruler
refutation;the speech act of answering an attack on your assertions. 'his refutation of the charges was short and persuasive'. 'in defense he said the other man started it'
langside;(1568) catholic forces supporting mary queen of scots were routed by protestants under her half-brother lord james stuart, earl of murray
indulgence;foolish or senseless behavior
venting;the act of venting
blackjack;a card game in which the object is to hold cards having a higher count than those dealt to the bank up to but not exceeding 21
separation;sorting one thing from others: 'the separation of wheat from chaff'. 'the separation of mail by postal zones'
completion;the act of becoming or making complete: 'her work is still far from completion'
pas seul;a solo dance or dance figure
volumetric analysis;determination of the volume of gases (or changes in their volume) during combination
attorneyship;the position of attorney
supplication;humble request for help
supplementary benefit;(great britain) benefits paid to bring incomes up to minimum levels established by law
feeding;the act of supplying food and nourishment
attention;a courteous act indicating affection. 'she tried to win his heart with her many attentions'
valse;a ballroom dance in triple time with a strong accent on the first beat
reprisal;a retaliatory action against an enemy in wartime
tv show;a program broadcast by television
verbal creation;creating something by the use of speech and language
ejection;the act of expelling or projecting or ejecting
closing off;the act of isolating something
ultrasonography;using the reflections of high-frequency sound waves to construct an image of a body organ (a sonogram). commonly used to observe fetal growth
renting;the act of renting (an apartment or house or car)
tlc;considerate and solicitous care. 'young children need lots of tlc'
oil painting;the act of painting with oil paints
cesarean section;the delivery of a fetus by surgical incision through the abdominal wall and uterus (from the belief that julius caesar was born that way)
antic;a ludicrous or grotesque act done for fun and amusement
singing voice;the musical quality of the voice while singing
attachment;faithful support for a religion or cause or political party
marston moor;a battle in 1644 in which the parliamentarians under the earl of manchester defeated the royalists under prince rupert
floor show;a series of acts at a night club
turndown;the act of refusing an offer. 'the turndown was polite but very firm'
curtailment;the reduction of expenditures in order to become financial stable
viscometry;the measurement of viscosity
secretary of state;the position of the head of the state department. 'the position of secretary of state was established in 1789'
medium;an occupation for which you are especially well suited. 'in law he found his true metier'
mass;the celebration of the eucharist (in the roman catholic church and some protestant churches)
abscondment;the act of running away secretly (as to avoid arrest)
appointment;the job to which you are (or hope to be) appointed. 'he applied for an appointment in the treasury'
excommunication;the act of banishing a member of the church from the communion of believers and the privileges of the church
recco;reconnaissance (by shortening)
wear;the act of wearing. 'she bought it for everyday wear'
go game;(japanese) a board game for two players who place counters on a grid. the object is to surround and so capture the opponent's counters
pastorship;the position of pastor
art;the creation of beautiful or significant things. 'he was a patron of art'
borrowing;the appropriation (of ideas or words etc) from another source. 'the borrowing of ancient motifs was very apparent'
smoke;a baseball thrown with maximum velocity. 'he swung late on the fastball'. 'he showed the batters nothing but smoke'
fray;a noisy fight
inspectorship;the office of inspector
manual of arms;(military) a prescribed drill in handling a rifle
echo sounding;determining the location of something by measuring the time it takes for an echo to return from it
arms control;a limitation on the size and armament of the armed forces of a country
un;a cricket ball bowled as if to break one way that actually breaks in the opposite way
airwave;medium for radio and television broadcasting. 'the program was on the air from 9 til midnight'. 'the president used the airwaves to take his message to the people'
demand for identification;as by a sentry
home run;a base hit on which the batter scores a run
clock golf;a form of golf in which you putt from positions arranged on the circumference of a circle around the hole
surgery;a therapeutic procedure with instruments to repair damage or arrest disease in a living body. 'they will schedule the operation as soon as an operating room is available'. 'he died while undergoing surgery'
aikido;a japanese martial art employing principles similar to judo
comfort;the act of consoling. giving relief in affliction. 'his presence was a consolation to her'
denial;a defendant's answer or plea denying the truth of the charges against him. 'he gave evidence for the defense'
somme;battle of world war ii (1944)
sledding;the sport of riding on a sled or sleigh
ruffle;a noisy fight
training;activity leading to skilled behavior
counterpoison;stops or controls the effects of a poison
bise;a dry cold north wind in se france
service abroad;naval service aboard a ship at sea
communization;the organization of a nation of the basis of communism
terrestrial guidance;a method of controlling the flight of a missile by devices that respond to the strength and direction of the earth's gravitational field
rhythmic pattern;a system of versification
expressage;rapid transport of goods
observance;a patient look
moon worship;worship of the moon
breeding;raising someone to be an accepted member of the community. 'they debated whether nature or nurture was more important'
lifework;the principal work of your career
misconstrual;a deliberate misinterpretation
shuffling;the act of mixing cards haphazardly
synchronizing;coordinating by causing to indicate the same time. 'the synchronization of their watches was an important preliminary'
naming;the act of putting a person into a non-elective position. 'the appointment had to be approvied by the whole committee'
bitch;informal terms for objecting. 'i have a gripe about the service here'
resistance;the military action of resisting the enemy's advance. 'the enemy offered little resistance'
playing;the performance of a part or role in a drama
call;(sports) the decision made by an umpire or referee. 'he was ejected for protesting the call'
marching music;music written for marching. 'sousa wrote the best marches'
three d;a movie with images having three dimensional form or appearance
superfecta;a bet that you can pick the first four finishers in a race in the right order
effectuation;the act of implementing (providing a practical means for accomplishing something)
radiotherapy;the treatment of disease (especially cancer) by exposure to radiation
korean war;a war between north and south korea. south korea was aided by the us and other un members. 1950-1953
spectacular;a lavishly produced performance. 'they put on a christmas spectacular'
cauterization;the act of coagulating blood and destroying tissue with a hot iron or caustic agent or by freezing
handling;the management of someone or something. 'the handling of prisoners' or 'the treatment of water sewage'. 'the right to equal treatment in the criminal justice system'
mahjong;chinese game played by 4 people with 144 tiles
livery;the voluntary transfer of something (title or possession) from one party to another
chemical engineering;the activity of applying chemistry to the solution of practical problems
pilot program;a program exemplifying a contemplated series. intended to attract sponsors
caution;a warning against certain acts: 'a caveat against unfair practices'
causation;the act of causing something to happen
self mortification;voluntary self-punishment in order to atone for some wrongdoing
vaporing;an instance of boastful talk. 'his brag is worse than his fight'
battle of crecy;the first decisive battle of the hundred years' war. in 1346 the english under edward iii defeated the french under king philip of valois
fingering;the placement of the fingers for playing different notes (or sequences of notes) on a musical instrument
higher education;education provided by a college or university
mildness;good weather with comfortable temperatures
inheritance;any acquisition from past generations
stare;a fixed look with eyes open wide
waste of time;the devotion of time to a useless activity. 'the waste of time could prove fatal'
arthroplasty;surgical reconstruction or replacement of a malformed or degenerated joint
callisthenics;light exercise designed to promote general fitness
fire;the act of firing weapons or artillery at an enemy. 'hold your fire until you can see the whites of their eyes'. 'they retreated in the face of withering enemy fire'
enema;injection of a liquid through the anus to stimulate evacuation. sometimes used for diagnostic purposes
horse trade;the swapping of horses (accompanied by much bargaining)
retreat;withdrawal for prayer and study and meditation. 'a religous retreat'
behavior modification;psychotherapy that seeks to extinguish or inhibit abnormal or maladaptive behavior by reinforcing desired behavior and extinguishing undesired behavior
agency;how a result is obtained or an end is achieved. 'a means of communcation'. 'an example is the best agency of instruction'. 'the true way to success'
eniwetok;world war ii (february 1944). american infantry landed and captured a japanese stronghold
ball;a pitch that is not in the strike zone. 'he threw nine straight balls before the manager yanked him'
hula;a polynesian rain dance performed by a woman
canalisation;the production of a canal or a conversion to canals
admittance;the act of admitting someone to enter. 'the surgery was performed on his second admission to the clinic'
lend lease;the transfer of goods and services to an ally to aid in a common cause. 'lend-lease during world war ii was extremely generous'
brushing;the act of brushing your hair. 'he gave his hair a quick brush'
enrollment;the act of enrolling
bootlegging;the act of selling illegally or without permission. 'the bootlegging of video tapes is common in the orient'
animation;general activity and motion
harmonization;singing in harmony
overworking;the act working too much or too long. 'he became ill from overwork'
great revolt;(english history) a widespread rebellion in 1381 against poll taxes and other inequities that oppressed the poorer people of england. suppressed by richard ii
compiling;the act of compiling (as into a single book or file or list). 'the job of compiling the inventory took several hours'
invocation;the act of appealing for help
nightwork;work to be done at night
responsibility;the social force that binds you to your obligations and the courses of action demanded by that force: 'we must instill a sense of duty in our children'. 'every right implies a responsibility. every opportunity, an obligation. every possession, a duty'- john d.rockefeller jr
overachievement;better than expected performance (better than might have been predicted from intelligence tests)
relief;the act of freeing a city or town that has been besieged. 'he asked for troops for the relief of atlanta'
maneuver;a move made to gain a tactical end
dethronement;the act of deposing someone
vocation;the particular occupation for which you are trained
illegitimate enterprise;an illegal enterprise (such as extortion or fraud or drug peddling or prostitution) carried on for profit
raid;a sudden short attack
bringing up;raising someone to be an accepted member of the community. 'they debated whether nature or nurture was more important'
clarification;an interpretation that clears up ambiguity. 'the professor's clarification helped her to understand the textbook'
hydroponics;a technique of growing plants (without soil) in water containing dissolved nutrients
utility;the service provided by a utility company. 'the cost of utilities never decreases'
encore;an extra or repeated performance. usually given in response to audience demand
shining;the work of making something shine by polishing it. 'he performed the menial chore of shining shoes'
picnic;any activity that is easy to do. 'marketing this product will be no picnic'
externalisation;embodying in an outward form
manicure;professional care for the hands and fingernails
alerting;a warning serves to make you more alert to danger
abandonment;withdrawing support or help despite allegiance or responsibility. 'his abandonment of his wife and children left them penniless'
pis aller;french for 'worst going'
nominating;the act of nominating (especially a candidate for election)
soil conservation;protection of soil against erosion or deterioration
coinage;the act of inventing a word or phrase
anaplasty;surgery concerned with therapeutic or cosmetic reformation of tissue
first battle of ypres;battle in world war i (1914). heavy but indecisive fighting as the allies and the germans both tried to break through the lines of the others
alamo;the mission in san antonio where mexican forces under santa anna besieged and massacred american rebels who were fighting to make texas independent of mexico
inquest;an inquiry into the cause of an unexpected death
ragtime;music with a syncopated melody (usually for the piano)
tale;an account describing incidents or events. 'after dinner he told the children stories of his adventures'
papering;the application of wallpaper
youth crusade;political or religious or social reform movement or agitation consisting chiefly of young people
splash;the act of splashing a (liquid) substance on a surface
tatting;act or process or making tatting or handmade lace
airplane landing;landing an aircraft
recital;an account describing incidents or events. 'after dinner he told the children stories of his adventures'
request;the verbal act of requesting
lectureship;the post of lecturer
evangelism;conversion resulting from the zeal of crusading advocacy of the gospel
hearts;a form of whist in which players avoid winning tricks containing hearts of the queen of spades
manufacture;the organized action of making of goods and services for sale. 'american industry is making increased use of computers to control production'"the organized action of making of goods and services for sale. 'american industry is making increased use of computers to control production'"
vaccination;taking a vaccine as a precaution against contracting a disease
lindy;an energetic american dance that was popular in the 1930s (probably named for the aviator charles lindbergh)
show;"a public exhibition or entertainment. 'they wanted to see some of the shows on broadway'"
donation;act of giving in common with others for a common purpose especially to a charity
sweepstakes;a lottery in which the prize consists of the money paid by the participants
postmortem;an examination and dissection of a dead body to determine cause of death or the changes produced by disease
basso profundo;a very deep bass voice
midwifery;assisting women at childbirth
scientific research;research into questions posed by scientific theories and hypotheses
lead;a position of leadership (especially in the phrase 'take the lead'). 'he takes the lead in any group'. 'we were just waiting for someone to take the lead'. 'they didn't follow our lead'
buyback;purchasing back something previously sold
magnetic storm;a sudden disturbance of the earth's magnetic field. caused by emission of particles from the sun
drawing;the act of moving a load by drawing or pulling
maraud;a sudden short attack
gambit;a maneuver in a game or conversation
motorisation;the act of motorizing (equiping with motors or with motor vehicles)
requisition;seizing property that belongs to someone else and holding it until profits pay the demand for which it was seized
battle of omdurman;a battle (1898) in which an anglo-egyptian army under lord kitchener defeated the sudanese
rearing;raising someone to be an accepted member of the community. 'they debated whether nature or nurture was more important'
squash rackets;a game played in an enclosed court by two or four players who strike the ball with long-handled rackets
stop;the act of stopping something. 'the third baseman made some remarkable stops'
analysis;an investigation of the component parts of a whole
chiropractic;a method of treatment that manipulates body structures in the belief that it restores proper nerve functioning
quantitative chemical analysis;chemical analysis to determine the amounts of each element in the substance
gather;the act of gathering something"the act of gathering something"
restriction;an act of limiting or restricting (as by regulation)
angling;the sport of catching fish with a rod and line and a baited hook (or other lure)
retaliation;action taken in return for an injury or offense
anachronism;something located at a time when it could not have existed or occurred
war of the league of augsburg;an aggressive war waged by louis xiv against spain and the empire and england and holland and other states (1689-1697)
arbitrement;the act of deciding as an arbiter. giving authoritative judgment. 'they submitted their disagreement to arbitration'
fruitage;the yield of fruit. 'a tree highly recommended for its fruitage'
planting;the act of fixing firmly in place. 'she resented his planting himself in the doorway'
belching;a reflex that expels wind noisily from the stomach through the mouth
engagement;sharing the activities of a group. 'the teacher tried to increase his students' engagement in class activities'
appreciation;a favorable judgment. 'a small token in admiration of your works'
multiple voting;voting in more than one place by the same person at the same election (illegal in u.s.)
direct action;a protest action by labor or minority groups to obtain their demands
warning of war;(military) a warning to national policy makers that an enemy intends war or is preparing for war and is on a course that increases the risk of war
practice session;systematic training by multiple repetitions. 'practice makes perfect'
punic wars;three wars between carthage and rome resulting in the destruction of carthage: 264-241 bc, 218-201 bc, 149-146 bc
fish worship;worship of fish
mastery;the act of mastering or subordinating someone
bench press;a weightlifting exercise in which you lie on your back on a bench and press weights upward
heavy;a serious (or tragic) role in a play
fat tuesday;the pre-lenten festival of shrove tuesday
large order;a formidable task or requirement. 'finishing in time was a tall order but we did it'
turkey trot;an early ragtime one-step
token economy;a form of behavior therapy that has been used in some mental institutions. patients are rewarded with tokens for appropriate behavior and the tokens may be cashed in for valued rewards
march;music written for marching. 'sousa wrote the best marches'
rugger;(british) a form of football played with an oval ball
adventure;a wild and exciting undertaking (not necessarily lawful)
burning;execution by electricity
game of chance;a game that involves gambling
discipleship;the position of disciple
esm;electronic warfare undertaken under direct control of an operational commander to locate sources of radiated electromagnetic energy for the purpose of immediate threat recognition
pass;(sports) the act of throwing the ball to another member of your team. 'the pass was fumbled'
bombardment;an attack by dropping bombs
guard;the duty of serving as a sentry. 'he was on guard that night'
midterm exam;an examination administered in the middle of an academic term
battle of midway;naval battle of world war ii (june 1942). land and carrier-based american planes decisively defeated a japanese fleet on its way to invade the midway islands
reversal;act of reversing the order or place of
rugby football;(british) a form of football played with an oval ball
slave trade;traffic in slaves. especially in black africans transported to america in the 16th to 19th centuries
counterattack;an attack by a defending force against an attacking enemy force in order to regain lost ground or cut off enemy advance units etc.
synchronising;an adjustment that causes something to occur or recur in unison
snuff;sensing an odor by inhaling through the nose
hierolatry;worship of saints
strikebreaking;confrontational activities intended to break up a strike by workers
electronic manipulative deception;actions to eliminate revealing telltale indicators that could be used by the enemy (or to convey misleading indicators)
tsushima;a naval battle in the russo-japanese war (1905). the japanese fleet defeated the russian fleet in the korean strait
carnival;a traveling show. having sideshows and rides and games of skill etc.
wastefulness;useless or profitless activity. using or expending or consuming thoughtlessly or carelessly: 'if the effort brings no compensating gain it is a waste'. 'mindless dissipaton of natural resources'
guarding;the activity of protecting someone or something. 'the witnesses demanded police protection'. 'he hated to spend so much time guarding his new car'the activity of protecting someone or something. 'the witnesses demanded police protection'. 'he hated to spend so much time guarding his new car'
assembly;the social act of assembling. 'they demanded the right of assembly'
collect;a short prayer generally preceding the lesson in the church of rome or the church of england
proctorship;the position of proctor
housekeeping;the work of cleaning and running a house
billing;request for payment of a debt. 'they submitted their charges at the end of each month'
compression;applying pressure
discussion;an extended communication (often interactive) dealing with some particular topic. 'the book contains an excellent discussion of modal logic'. 'his treatment of the race question is badly biased'
personal judgement;a judgment rendered against an individual (or corporation) for the payment of money damages
receivership;a court action that places property under the control of a receiver during litigation so that it can be preserved for the benefit of all
officiating;the act of umpiring
rearmament;the act of arming again. 'he opposed the rearmament of japan after world war ii'
field hockey;hockey played on a field. two opposing teams use curved sticks to drive a ball into the opponents' net
dealings;the act of transacting within or between groups (as carrying on commercial activities). 'no transactions are possible without him'. 'he has always been honest is his dealings with me'"an action with at least two agents and a patient having other actions as parts. the patient partecipant is exchanged between the agents.""the act of transacting within or between groups (as carrying on commercial activities). 'no transactions are possible without him'. 'he has always been honest is his dealings with me'"
decampment;the act of running away secretly (as to avoid arrest)
survey;a detailed critical inspection
lexington;the first battle of the american revolution (april 19, 1775)
requiem;a mass celebrated for the dead
boyne;a battle in the war of the grand alliance in ireland in 1690. william iii of england defeated the deposed james ii and so ended stuart catholicism in england
skin care;care for the skin
meter reading;the act of measuring with meters or similar instruments. 'he has a job meter reading for the gas company'
strike;a conspicuous success. 'that song was his first hit and marked the beginning of his career'
act;a short theatrical performance that is part of a longer program. 'he did his act three times every evening'. 'she had a catchy little routine'. 'it was one of the best numbers he ever did'
elucidation;an interpretation that clears up ambiguity. 'the professor's clarification helped her to understand the textbook'
steerage;the act of steering a ship
dien bien phu;the french military base fell after a 56-day siege by vietnam troops. ended the involvement of france in indochina in 1954
jehad;a holy war by muslims against unbelievers
self discipline;the act of denying yourself. controlling your impulses
exposure;the act of exposing film to light
wrong;a cricket ball bowled as if to break one way that actually breaks in the opposite way
modern jazz;any of various styles of jazz that appeared after 1940
line of business;a particular kind of commercial enterprise. 'they are outstanding in their field'
collation;assembling in proper numerical or logical sequence
digging;a thorough search for something (often causing disorder or confusion). 'he gave the attic a good rummage but couldn't find his skis'
word game;any game involving the formation or alteration or discovery of words
armageddon;any catastrophically destructive battle. 'they called the first world war an armageddon'
birthcontrol;limiting the number of children born
attention;the work of caring for or attending to someone or something. 'no medical care was required'. 'the old car needed constant attention'
zoolatry;worship of animals
secretary of energy;the position of the head of the department of energy. 'the post of energy secretary was created in 1977'
sinker;a pitch that curves downward rapidly as it approaches the plate
grooming;activity leading to skilled behavior
redisposition;the withdrawal and redistribution of forces in an attempt to use them more effectively
leveraged buyout;a buyout using borrowed money. the target company's assets are usually security for the loan
public presentation;a dramatic or musical entertainment. 'the play ran for 100 performances' or 'the frequent performances of the symphony testify to its popularity'
cannonade;intense and continuous artillery fire
story;an account describing incidents or events. 'after dinner he told the children stories of his adventures'
ducking;duck hunting
frolic;gay or light-hearted recreational activity for diversion or amusement. 'it was all done in play'. 'their frolic in the surf threatened to become ugly'
malediction;a curse that invokes evil (and usually serves as an insult). 'he suffered the imprecations of the mob'
psychometric test;any standardized procedure for measuring sensitivity or memory or intelligence or aptitude etc. 'the test was standardized on a large sample of students'
shielding;the act of shielding from harm
rebelliousness;an insubordinate act
averting;the act of turning away. 'averting her gaze means that she must be angry with me'
beano;a game in which numbered balls are drawn and random and players cover the corresponding numbers on their cards
run batted in;a run that is the result of the batter's performance. 'he had more than 100 rbi last season'
lecture;teaching by giving a discourse on some subject (typically to a class)
stud poker;poker in which each player receives hole cards and the remainder are dealt face up. bets are placed after each card is dealt
counterbombardment;bombardment intended to destroy or neutralize enemy weapons
chapel;a service conducted in a chapel. 'he was late for chapel'
allurement;the act of enticing a person to do something wrong (as an offer of sex in return for money)
ivry la bataille;a battle (1590) in which the huguenots under henry iv of france defeated the catholics under the duke of mayenne
immobilization;the act of limiting movement or making incapable of movement: 'immobilizing the injured knee was necessary'. 'the storm caused complete immobilization of the rescue team'
break dance;a form of solo dancing that involves rapid acrobatic moves in which different parts of the body touch the ground. normally performed to the rhythm of rap music
ruggedisation;the act of making a piece of equipment rugged (strengthening to resist wear or abuse)
representative sampling;the population is divided into subpopulations (strata) and random samples are taken of each stratum
beekeeping;the cultivation of bees on a commercial scale for the production of honey
share;the result of parcelling out or sharing. 'death gets more than its share of attention from theologicans'
release;activity that releases or expresses creative energy or emotion. 'she had no other outlet for her feelings'
social assistance;(great britain) benefits paid to bring incomes up to minimum levels established by law
full gainer;a dive in which the diver throws the feet forward to complete a full backward somersault and enters the water feet first and facing away from the diving board
broadside;a violent denunciation
ordaining;the act of ordaining
fulfillment;the act of consummating something (a desire or promise etc)
fraternisation;associating with others in a brotherly or friendly way. especially with an enemy
pony trekking;(british) a sport in which people ride across country on ponies
scandal;disgraceful gossip about the private lives of other people
charity;an activity or gift that benefits the public at large
military expedition;a military campaign designed to achieve a specific objective in a foreign country
tutelage;attention and management implying responsibility for safety. 'he is under the care of a physician'
dramatics;participation in theatrical productions as an extracurricular activity
espionage;the systematic use of spies to get military or political secrets
creation;the human act of creating
seeking;the act of searching for something. 'a quest for diamonds'
embalmment;preservation (of a dead body) by treating with balsams and drugs and other chemicals
irradiation;the treatment of disease (especially cancer) by exposure to radiation
character;an actor's portrayal of someone in a play. 'she played the part of desdemona'
listening watch;a watch established for the reception of traffic of interest to the unit maintaining the watch
building;the commercial activity involved in constructing buildings. 'their main business is home construction'. 'workers in the building trades'
commutation;the reduction is severity of a punishment imposed by law
slider;a fastball that curves slightly away from the side from which it was thrown
presentation;the act of presenting a proposal
redaction;the act of putting something in writing
waste of money;money spent for inadequate return. 'the senator said that the project was a waste of money'
demobilisation;act of changing from a war basis to a peace basis including disbanding or discharging troops: 'demobilization of factories'. 'immediate demobilization of the reserves'
biological warfare defense;defense against biological warfare
booking;the act of reserving (a place or passage) or engaging the services of (a person or group): 'wondered who had made the booking'
landfall;the first sighting of land from the sea after a voyage (or flight over water)
fredericksburg;an important battle in the american civil war (1862). the union's army of the potomac under a. e. burnside was defeated by the confederate army of northern virginia under robert e. lee
sloganeering;persuasion by means of empty slogans
air;a slight wind (usually refreshing). 'the breeze was cooled by the lake'
subvention;the act or process of providing aid or help of any sort
conceptualization;the act of formulation something
unloading;the labor of unloading something
extortion;unjust exaction (as by the misuse of authority): 'the extortion by dishonest officials of fees for performing their sworn duty'
running away;leaving (without permission) the place you are expected to be
foul ball;(in baseball) a ball struck with the bat so that it does not stay between the foul lines on the playing field
spondee;a metrical unit with stressed-stressed syllables
decipherment;the activity of making clear or converting from code into plain text
entreaty;earnest or urgent request
shrift;the act of being shriven
luging;riding a light one-man toboggan
collation;careful examination and comparison to note points of disagreement
pachisi;an ancient board game resembling backgammon. played on a cross-shaped board
tennis;a game played with rackets by two or four players who hit a ball back and forth over a net that divides the court
discourse;an address of a religious nature (usually delivered during a church service)
condensation;the act of increasing the density of something
refusal;the act of refusing
x radiation;obtaining images by the use of x rays
lepanto;turkish sea power was destroyed in 1571 by a league of christian nations organized by the pope
wilderness campaign;american civil war. a series of indecisive battles in grant's campaign (1864) against lee in which both armies suffered terrible losses
golden parachute;giving top executives lucrative benefits that must be paid by the acquirer if they are discharged after a takeover
reference;the act of referring. 'reference to an encyclopedia produced the answer'
noughts and crosses;a game in which two players alternately put crosses and circles in one of the compartments of a 3-by-3 board. the object is to get a row of three crosses or three circles before the opponent does
valedictory address;a farewell oration delivered by the most outstanding member of a graduating class
throne;the position and power of one who occupies a throne
automation;a highly technical implementation. usually involving electronic hardware. 'automation replaces human workers by machines'
washing up;the washing of dishes etc after a meal
artificial respiration;an emergency procedure whereby respiration that is maintained artificially
commission;a formal statement of a command or injunction to do something. 'the judge's charge to the jury'
dealings;social or verbal interchange (usually followed by 'with')
prompt;(computer science) a symbol that appears on the computer screen to indicate that the computer is ready to receive a command
coronary bypass;open-heart surgery in which a section of a blood vessel is grafted from the aorta to the coronary artery to bypass the blocked section of the coronary artery and improve the blood supply to the heart
plunge;a brief swim in water
waste of material;a useless consumption of material
concord;the first battle of the american revolution (april 19, 1775)
dummy whist;a form of whist with three players. four hands are dealt with the hand opposite the dealer being face up
in migration;migration out of a place
presidentship;the office and function of president
narrative;an account describing incidents or events. 'after dinner he told the children stories of his adventures'
oversight;management by overseeing the performance or operation of a person or group
ceremony;any activity that is performed in an especially solemn elaborate or formal way. 'the ceremony of smelling the cork and tasting the wine'. 'he makes a ceremony of addressing his golf ball'. 'he disposed of it without ceremony'
compliance;the act of submitting. usually surrendering power to another
departure;act of departing
casting vote;the deciding vote cast by the presiding officer to resolve a tie
talkie;a movie with synchronized speech and singing
bidding;an authoritative direction or instruction to do something
american civil war;us history: civil war between the north and the south. 1861-1865
victory celebration;a celebration following a victory in a battle or sports competition
waste of energy;a useless effort
polemic;a controversy (especially over a belief or dogma)
terpsichore;taking a series of rhythmical steps (and movements) in time to music
telemetry intelligence;intelligence derived from the interception and processing and analysis of foreign telemetry
censoring;counterintelligence achieved by banning or deleting any information of value to the enemy
presidency;the office and function of president
wagram;a battle in the napoleonic campaigns (1809). napoleon defeated the austrians
three bagger;a base hit at which the batter stops safely at third base
filming;the act of making a film
issuing;the provision of something by issuing it (usually in quantity). 'a new issue of stamps'. 'the last issue of penicillin was over a month ago'
clog dance;a dance performed while wearing clogs. has heavy stamping steps
secretary of labor;the position of the head of the department of labor. 'the post of labor secretary was created in 1913'
burning;execution by fire
5 hitter;a game in which a pitcher allows the opposing team 5 hits
militarisation;act of assembling and putting into readiness for war or other emergency: 'mobilization of the troops
inducement;act of bringing about a desired result: 'inducement of sleep'
catch;a cooperative game in which a ball is passed back and forth. 'he played catch with his son in the backyard'
favour;an act of gracious kindness
judgship;the position of judge
task;any piece of work
western;a film about life in the western us during the period of exploration and development
rumba;a rhythmic syncopated cuban folk dance in duple time
denunciation;a public act of denouncing
basso;the lowest adult male singing voice
hunt;the work of finding and killing or capturing animals for food or pelts
turn;a short theatrical performance that is part of a longer program. 'he did his act three times every evening'. 'she had a catchy little routine'. 'it was one of the best numbers he ever did'
clash;a minor short-term fight
shot;the act of firing a projectile. 'his shooting was slow but accurate'
jostling;the act of jostling (forcing your way by pushing)
pyrotechny;the craft of making fireworks
acupressure;(chinese and japanese) treatment of symptoms by applying pressure with the fingers to specific pressure points on the body
giveaway;an unintentional disclosure
public service;employment within a government system (especially in civil service)
lancers;a quadrille for 8 or 16 couples
emanation;the act of emitting
enslavement;the act of making slaves of your captives
news show;a program devoted to news. 'we watch the 7 o'clock news every night'
automotive technology;the activity of designing and constructing automobiles
adherence;faithful support for a religion or cause or political party
hide and seek;a child covers his eyes while the other players hide then tries to find them
salvation;saving someone or something from harm of from an unpleasant situation. 'the salvation of his party was the president's major concern'
soaking;washing something by allowing it to soak
judgment on the pleadings;a judgment rendered by the court prior to a verdict because no material issue of fact exists and one party or the other is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law
psychoanalysis;a set of techniques for exploring underlying motives and a method of treating various mental disorders. 'his physician recommended psychoanalysis'
broadcasting;a medium that disseminates via telecommunications
bounce;a light springing movement upwards or forwards
hockey;hockey played on a field. two opposing teams use curved sticks to drive a ball into the opponents' net
travelogue;a film or illustrated lecture on traveling
labour;productive work (especially physical work done for wages). 'his labor did not require a great deal of skill'
barrel roll;a roll in which the plane follows a spiral course
personal judgment;a judgment rendered against an individual (or corporation) for the payment of money damages
forging;shaping metal by heating and hammering
condemnation;an appeal to some supernatural power to inflict evil on someone or some group
communication channel;(often plural) a means of communication or access. 'it must go through official channels'. 'lines of communication were set up between the two firms'
arming;the act of equiping with weapons in preparation for war
salve;used for healing or soothing
battle of caporetto;battle of world war i (1917). italians were defeated by austro-german forces
pastime;a subject or pursuit that occupies one's time and thoughts (usually pleasantly): 'sailing is her favorite pastime'. 'his main pastime is gambling'. 'he counts reading among his interests'. 'they criticized the boy for his limited interests'
anticoagulation;the administration of an anticoagulant drug to retard coagulation of the blood
matinee;a theatrical performance held during the daytime (especially in the afternoon)
specification;a restriction that is insisted upon as a condition for an agreement
consecration;the act of consecrating. 'the cardinal attended the consecration of the church'
overproduction;too much production or more than expected
child s game;a game enjoyed by children
liturgy;a christian sacrament commemorating the last supper by consecrating bread and wine
safeguard;warding off an impending threat
disbursement;the act of spending or disbursing money
arm exercise;exercise designed to strengthen the arm muscles
business;the principal activity in your life. 'he's not in my line of business'
laying on of hands;laying hands on a person's head to invoke spiritual blessing in christian ordination
roulette;a gambling game in which players bet on which compartment of a revolving wheel a small ball will come to rest in
selenolatry;worship of the moon
elbowing;jostling with the elbows
clerking;the activity of recording business transactions
reburying;the act of burying again
game;informal terms for your occupation. 'he's in the plumbing game'. 'she's in show biz'
twist;an interpretation of a text or action. 'they put an unsympathetic construction on his conduct'
cause;(law) a comprehensive term for any proceeding in a court of law whereby an individual seeks a legal remedy. 'the family brought suit against the landlord'
decoding;the activity of making clear or converting from code into plain text
driving;the act of controlling and steering the movement of a vehicle or animal
informing;to furnish incriminating evidence to an officer of the law (usually in return for favors)
professional wrestling;wrestling for money
cakewalk;a strutting dance based on a march. was performed in minstrel shows. originated as a competition among black dancers to win a cake
idolatry;religious zeal. willingness to serve god
mercy;leniency and compassion shown toward offenders by a person or agency charged with administering justice. 'he threw himself on the mercy of the court'
election;a vote to select the winner of a political office
defamation;the act of defaming
sightseeing;going about to look at places of interest
cobbling;the shoemaker's trade
relistening;the act of hearing again
fait accompli;an irreversible accomplishment
detective work;the investigation of criminal activities to determine the perpetrator. 'detection is hard on the feet'
quo warranto;a hearing to determine by what authority someone has an office or franchise or liberty
fetish;excessive or irrational devotion to some activity. 'made a fetish of cleanliness'
trade;the commercial exchange (buying and selling on domestic or international markets) of goods and services. 'venice was an important center of trade with the east'. 'they are accused of conspiring to constrain trade'
spanking;the act of slapping on the buttocks. 'he gave the brat a good spanking'
banditry;the practice of plundering in gangs
protest;a formal and solemn declaration of objection. 'they finished the game under protest to the league prsident'. 'the senator rose to register his protest'. 'the many protestations did not stay the execution'
staking;the act of gambling. 'he did it on a bet'
sonography;using the reflections of high-frequency sound waves to construct an image of a body organ (a sonogram). commonly used to observe fetal growth
check out procedure;the act of inspecting or verifying. 'they made a check of their equipment'. 'the pilot ran through the check-out procedure'
direct support;a mission requiring one force to support another specific force and authorizing it to answer directly the supported force's request for assistance
cpr;an emergency procedure consisting of external cardiac massage and artificial respiration. the first treatment for a person who has collapsed and has no pulse and has stopped breathing. attempts to restore circulation of the blood and prevent death or brain damage due to lack of oxygen
idolatry;the worship of idols. the worship of images that are not god
condemnation;the act of condemning (as land forfeited for public use) or judging to be unfit for use (as a food product)
plasmapheresis;a procedure for removing plasma from the blood. blood is drawn and the cellular elements are separated and transfused back to the donor
test suit;a representative legal action whose outcome is likely to become a precedent
creating by removal;the act of creating by removing something
spanish armada;francis drake commanded british ships that successfully defeated the large armada sent from spain by philip ii to invade england
last rites;rites performed in connection with a death or burial
feature film;the principal (full-length) film in a program at a movie theater. 'the feature tonight is 'casablanca''
entr acte;a brief show (music or dance etc) performed between the sections of another performance
cerate;a hard medicated paste made of lard or oil mixed with wax or resin
tool and die work;the craft of making special tools and dies
cold snap;a period of unusually cold weather
electroshock therapy;the administration of a strong electric current that passes through the brain to induce convulsions and coma
back exercise;exercise designed to strengthen the back muscles
strangulation;(pathology) constriction of a body part so as to cut off the flow of blood or other fluid: 'strangulation of the intestine'
parody;humorous or satirical mimicry
double;a base hit on which the batter stops safely at second base. ' he hit a double to deep centerfield'
assonance;the repetition of similar vowels in the stressed syllables of successive words
lake trasimenus;a battle in 217 bc in which hannibal ambushed a roman army led by flaminius
arrogation;seizure by the government
coercion;the act of compelling by force of authority
coming into court;formal attendance (in court or at a hearing) of a party in an action
atmosphere;the weather or climate at some place. 'the atmosphere was thick with fog'
affirmation;a judgment by a higher court that the judgment of a lower court was correct and should stand
calorimetry;measurement of quantities of heat
leverage;investing with borrowed money as a way to amplify potential gains (at the risk of greater losses)
benefit of clergy;sanction by the church
borodino;napoleon defeated the russians in 1812, but irreparably weakened his army
causa;(law) a comprehensive term for any proceeding in a court of law whereby an individual seeks a legal remedy. 'the family brought suit against the landlord'
radical mastectomy;removal of a breast and the underlying muscles (pectoralis major and pectoralis minor) and lymph nodes in the adjacent armpit
presentation;the activity of presenting something
splashdown;a landing of a spacecraft in the sea at the end of a space flight
naturalization;the proceeding whereby a foreigner is granted citizenship
lip sync;combining audio and video recording in such a way that the sound is perfectly synchronized with the action that produced it. especially synchronizing the movements of a speaker's lips with the sound of his speech
megavitamin therapy;therapy based on a theory that taking very large doses of vitamins will prevent or cure physical or psychological disorders
diversion;an activity that diverts or amuses or stimulates
prerequisite;something that is required in advance. 'latin was a prerequisite for admission'
interplay;reciprocal action and reaction
direct supporting fire;fire delivered in support of part of a force (as opposed to general supporting fire delivered in support of the force as a whole)
make work;active work of little value. 'while he was waiting he filled the days with busywork'
echolocation;determining the location of something by measuring the time it takes for an echo to return from it
balloting;a choice that is made by voting. 'there were only 17 votes in favor of the motion'
artistic production;the creation of beautiful or significant things. 'he was a patron of art'
shadow play;a drama executed by throwing shadows on a wall
dental care;care for the teeth
incoming;the act of entering. 'she made a grand entrance'
breeziness;a mildly windy state of the air
prisoner s base;a children's game. two teams capture opposing players by tagging them and taking them to their own base
shoot;the act of shooting at targets. 'they hold a shoot every weekend during the summer'
riot;a wild gathering involving excessive drinking and promiscuity
typography;the craft of composing type and printing from it
clinch;(in boxing) the act of one boxer holding onto the other to avoid being hit and to rest momentarily
programming;setting an order and time for planned events
samiel;a violent hot sand-laden wind on the deserts of arabia and north africa
jocularity;activity characterized by good humor
co option;the selection of a new member (usually by a vote of the existing membership)
trick;a ludicrous or grotesque act done for fun and amusement
comedy ballet;a ballet that stresses the drama with features of comedy
unguent;used for healing or soothing
orchiectomy;surgical removal of one or both testicles
gala;a gay festivity
shaping;the fabrication of something in a particular shape
stick;threat of a penalty: 'the policy so far is all stick and no carrot'
castration;surgical removal of the testes or ovaries (usually to inhibit hormone secretion in cases of breast cancer in women or prostate cancer in men). 'bilateral castration results in sterilization'
meter;(prosody) the accent in a metrical foot of verse
sailing;the departure of a vessel from a port
self preservation;preservation of oneself from harm. a natural or instinctive tendency
battle of the aisne;a battle in world war i (may 1918). the germans tried to attack before the american numbers were too great to defeat. the tactical success of the germans proved to be a strategic failure
conveyance of title;act of transferring property title from one person to another
gust;a strong current of air. 'the tree was bent almost double by the gust'
okinawa campaign;a campaign in the closing days of world war ii in the pacific (april-june 1945). in savage close-quarter fighting us marines and regular army troops took the island from the japanese. considered the greatest victory of the pacific campaign for the americans
curvet;a light leap by a horse in which both hind legs leave the ground before the forelegs come down
dunkirk;in world war ii (1940) 330,000 allied troops had to be evacuated from the beaches at dunkirk in a desperate retreat under enemy fire
police action;a local military action without declaration of war. against violators of international peace and order
duty assignment;as duty that you are assigned to perform especially in the armed forces: 'hazardous duty'
foot;a group of 2 or 3 syllables forming the basic unit of poetic rhythm
judgement in rem;a judgment pronounced on the status of some particular subject or property or thing (as opposed to one pronounced on persons)
coming attraction;a movie that is advertised to draw customers
service;employment in work for another. 'he retired after 30 years of service'
simulative electronic deception;actions to represent friendly notional or actual capabilities to mislead hostile forces
incursion;the act of entering some territory or domain (often in large numbers). 'the incursion of television into the american livingroom'
handling;manual (or mechanical) carrying or moving or delivering or working with something
demonstration;the act of presenting something. 'he gave the customer a demonstration'
contumacy;willful refusal to appear before a court or comply with a court order
reversal;a judgment by a higher court that the judgment of a lower court was incorrect and should be set aside
celioscopy;endoscopic examination of the abdomen through the abdominal wall
bowling;the playing of a game of tenpins or duckpins etc
crooning;the act of singing popular songs in a sentimental manner
examination;a set of questions or exercises evaluating skill or knowledge. 'when the test was stolen the professor had to make a new set of questions'
tickle;the act of tickling
stunt;a difficult or unusual feat. usually done to gain attention
weather condition;the meteorological conditions: temperature and wind and clouds and precipitation. 'they were hoping for good weather'. 'every day we have weather conditions and yesterday was no exception'the meteorological conditions: temperature and wind and clouds and precipitation. 'they were hoping for good weather'. 'every day we have weather conditions and yesterday was no exception'
mental testing;any standardized procedure for measuring sensitivity or memory or intelligence or aptitude etc. 'the test was standardized on a large sample of students'
nursing care;care by a skilled nurse
dispensation;the act of dispensing (giving out in portions)
battle of panipat;battle in which the ruler of afghanistan defeated the mahrattas in 1761
nursery rhyme;a tale in rhymed verse for children
quantitative analysis;chemical analysis to determine the amounts of each element in the substance
deed;a notable achievement: 'the book was her finest effort'a notable achievement: 'the book was her finest effort'
embrocation;a medicinal liquid that is rubbed into the skin to relieve muscular stiffness and pain
oblation;the act of offering the bread and wine of the eucharist
endeavour;a purposeful or industrious undertaking (especially one that requires effort or boldness). 'he had doubts about the whole enterprise'
inaugural;an address delivered at an inaugural ceremony (especially by a us president)
systematisation;systematic organization
judgment of conviction;a final judgment of guilty in a criminal case and the punishment that is imposed. 'the conviction came as no surprise'
docking;a act of securing an arriving vessel with ropes or anchors
occupation;the control of a country by military forces of a foreign power
reciprocation;the act of reciprocating
wild pitch;a pitch that the catcher cannot stop
drafting;the creation of artistic drawings. 'he learned drawing from his father'
admiralty;the office of admiral
surfboarding;the sport of riding a surfboard toward the shore on the crest of a wave
ballroom music;music composed for ballroom dancing
rifling;the cutting of spiral grooves on the inside of the barrel of a firearm
draft;a current of air (usually coming into a room or vehicle)
gardening;the cultivation of plants
eisteddfod;any of several annual welsh festivals involving artistic competitions (especially in singing)
bosworth field;the battle that ended the wars of the roses (1485). richard iii was killed and henry tudor was crowned as henry vii
roleplaying;acting a particular role (as in psychotherapy)
downtick;a transaction in the stock market at a price below the price of the preceding transaction
break;any frame in which a bowler fails to make a strike or spare. 'the break in the eighth frame cost him the match'
prayer;the act of communicating with a deity (especially as a petition or in adoration or contrition or thanksgiving)
force;an act of aggression (as one against a person who resists). 'he may accomplish by craft in the long run what he cannot do by force and violence in the short one'
rub up;(british) a review that refreshes your memory. 'i need a rub up on my latin'
curve ball;a baseball thrown with spin so that its path curves as it approach the batter
social activity;activity considered appropriate on social occasions
word worship;worship of words
test paper;a written examination
cattle breeding;breeding cattle
electronic imitative deception;the introduction of electromagnetic energy into enemy systems that imitates enemy emissions
bar billiards;(british) a table game in which short cues are used to knock balls into holes that are guarded by wooden pegs. penalties are incurred if the pegs are knocked over
electronic countermeasures;electronic warfare undertaken to prevent or reduce an enemy's effective use of the electromagnetic spectrum
southeaster;a strong wind from the southeast
battle of leuctra;thebes defeated sparta in 371 bc. the battle ended sparta's military supremacy in greece
guardianship;attention and management implying responsibility for safety. 'he is under the care of a physician'
colorimetry;quantitative chemical analysis by color using a colorimeter
encounter;a hostile disagreement face-to-face
theatrical performance;a performance of play
raw weather;unpleasantly cold and damp weather
breaking ball;a baseball thrown with spin so that its path curves as it approach the batter
dilatation and curettage;a surgical procedure usually performed under local anesthesia in which the cervix is dilated and the endometrial lining of the uterus is scraped with a curet. performed to obtain tissue samples or to stop prolonged bleeding or to remove small tumors or to remove fragments of placenta after childbirth or as a method of abortion
computer programming;creating a sequence of instructions to enable the computer to do something
blindman s buff;a children's game in which a blindfolded player tries to catch and identify other players
dark field illumination;a form of microscopic examination of living material by scattered light. specimens appear luminous against a dark background
easter;a wind from the east
supply;the activity of supplying or providing something"the activity of supplying or providing something"
spinal puncture;removal of fluid from the subarachnoid space of the lumbar region of the spinal cord for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes
spanish war;a war between the us and spain in 1898
turn;a favor for someone. 'he did me a good turn'
submission;the act of submitting. usually surrendering power to another
squandering;spending money wastefully
fox hunting;mounted hunters follow hounds in pursuit of a fox
starving;the act of starving. 'they were charged with the starvation of children in their care'
inducing;act of bringing about a desired result: 'inducement of sleep'
trial and error;experimenting until a solution is found
revenge;action taken in return for an injury or offense
sell;the activity of persuading someone to buy. 'it was a hard sell'
energizing;the activity of causing to have energy and be active
long shot;a venture that involves great risk but promises great rewards
praetorship;the office of praetor
air defense;defensive measures designed to destroy attacking enemy aircraft or missiles or to nullify their effectiveness
concubinage;cohabitation without being legally married
making;the act that results in something coming to be. 'the devising of plans'. 'the fashioning of pots and pans'. 'the making of measurements'
appointment;the act of putting a person into a non-elective position. 'the appointment had to be approvied by the whole committee'
stoppage;the act of stopping something. 'the third baseman made some remarkable stops'
cold wave;a period of unusually cold weather
evacuation;the act of evacuating. leaving a place in an orderly fashion. esp. for protection
cross country riding;riding horses across country over obstructions to demonstrate horsemanship
authentication;validating the authenticity of something or someone
cinematography;the act of making a film
finance;the management of money and credit and banking and investments
messiahship;the position of messiah
photography;the occupation of taking and printing photographs or making movies
radioscopy;examination of the inner structure of opaque objects using x rays or other penetrating radiation
mask;activity that tries to conceal something. 'no mask could conceal his ignorance'. 'they moved in under a mask of friendship'
nomination;the act of nominating (especially a candidate for election)
thermal;rising current of warm air
economies of scale;reduction in cost of production due to a large number of items produced
peddling;selling goods for a living
redeployment;the withdrawal and redistribution of forces in an attempt to use them more effectively
commerce secretary;the position of the head of the department of commerce. 'the position of commerce secretary was created in 1913'
enumeration;the act of counting
digging;the act of digging. 'there's an interesting excavation going on near princeton'
steering;the act of steering a ship
band;band of radio frequencies for e.g. transmitting a tv signal
fingering;feeling something with the fingers
defiance;a hostile challenge
finding;the decision of a court on issues of fact or law
hospitalisation;medical care in a hospital
collision;the act of colliding with something
coup d oeil;a quick look
run;a score in baseball made by a runner touching all four bases safely. 'the yankees scored 3 runs in the bottom of the 9th' or 'their first tally came in the 3rd inning'
office;the actions and activities assigned to or required or expected of a person or group: 'the function of a teacher'. 'the government must do its part' or 'play its role' or 'do its duty'
run through;a practice session in preparation for a public performance of a play or speech or concert
fueling;the activity of supplying or taking on fuel
sexism;discriminatory or abusive behavior towards members of the opposite sex
stroking;a light touch with the hands
torrent;a heavy rain
chalk talk;a talk that uses a blackboard and chalk
fight;an intense verbal dispute. 'a violent fight over the bill is expected in the senate'
determination;the act of making up your mind about something. 'the burden of decision was his'. 'he drew his conclusions quickly'
exit;the act of going out
volition;the act of making a choice. 'followed my father of my own choice'
sale;the general activity of selling. 'they tried to boost sales'. 'laws limit the sale of handguns'
eye beaming;a radiant glance of the eye. 'he pretended profundity by eye-beamings at people'
somme river;battle in world war i (1916)
gift;the act of giving
sympathectomy;surgical interruption of a nerve pathway in the sympathetic nervous system
incline bench press;a bench press performed on an inclined bench
alarmism;needless warnings
attainment;the act of achieving an aim. 'the attainment of independence'
alignment;the act of adjusting or aligning the parts of a device in relation to each other
curacy;the position of a curate
babbiting;lining a surface or bearing with babbitt metal
selflessness;acting with less concern for yourself than for the success of the joint activity
appearance;the act of appearing in public view. 'the rookie made a brief appearance in the first period'. 'it was bernhardt's last appearance in america'
affairs;transactions of professional or public interest. 'news of current affairs'. 'great affairs of state'
conferment;the act of conferring an honor or presenting a gift
sea duty;naval service aboard a ship at sea
crucifixion;a method of execution widespread in the ancient world. victim's hands and feet are bound or nailed to a cross
trial;(law) legal proceedings consisting of the judicial examination of issues by a competent tribunal. 'most of these complaints are settled before they go to trial'
protection;the imposition of duties or quotas on imports in order to protect domestic industry against foreign competition. 'he made trade protection a plank in the party platform'
ablism;discrimination in favor of the able-bodied
sleight of hand;manual dexterity in the execution of tricks
reconstruction;an interpretation formed by piecing together bits of evidence
balm;used for healing or soothing
imbroglio;a very embarrassing misunderstanding
fusillade;rapid simultaneous discharge of firearms. 'our fusillade from the left flank caught them by surprise'
prefecture;the office of prefect
candlepins;a bowling game using slender bowling pins
loyalty;the act of binding yourself (intellectually or emotionally) to a course of action. 'his long commitment to public service'. 'they felt no loyalty to a losing team'
dekko;british slang
hostility;violent action that is hostile and usually unprovoked
infliction;the act of imposing something (as a tax or an embargo)
separation;the social act of separating or parting company. 'the separation of church and state'
meat grinder;any action resulting in injury or destruction. 'the meat grinder of politics destroyed his reputation' or 'allied forces crumbled before the wehrmacht meat grinder'
actual eviction;the physical ouster of a tenant from the leased premises. the tenant is relieved of any further duty to pay rent
operation;a business especially one run on a large scale: 'a large-scale farming operation'. 'a multinational operation'. they paid taxes on every stage of the operation'. 'they had to consolidate their operations'
helping;the activity of contributing to the fulfillment of a need or furtherance of an effort or purpose: 'he gave me an assist with the housework'. 'could not walk without assistance'. 'rescue party went to their aid'. 'offered his help in unloading'
bivouacking;the act of encamping and living in tents in a camp
commitment;an engagement by contract involving financial obligation. 'his business commitments took him to london'
skin diving;underwater swimming with a breathing apparatus
seminar;a course offered for a small group of advanced students
intermediation;the act of mediating
christening;giving a christian name at baptism
hot weather;a period of unusually hot weather
board game;a game played on a specially designed board
wash;the work of washing or cleansing
supererogation;an effort above and beyond the call of duty
bureaucratic procedure;needlessly time-consuming procedure
sun dance;a ceremonial dance performed by amerindians at the summer solstice
sewing;joining or attaching by stitches
willing;the act of making a choice. 'followed my father of my own choice'
eviction;action by a landlord that compels a tenant to leave the premises (as by rendering the premises unfit for occupancy). no physical expulsion or legal process is involved
mollification;the act of pacifying
military training;training soldiers in military procedures
proportional sampling;the population is divided into subpopulations (strata) and random samples are taken of each stratum
paying back;a reciprocal group action. 'in return we gave them as good as we got'
card game;a game played with playing cards
crackdown;severely repressive actions
interchange;mutual interaction. the activity of interchanging or reciprocating
metier;an occupation for which you are especially well suited. 'in law he found his true metier'
jazz festival;a festival that features performances by jazz artists
heroics;ostentatious hammy conduct
binet simon scale;the first intelligence test
welfare;governmental provision of economic assistance to persons in need
deprivation;act of depriving
preaching;an address of a religious nature (usually delivered during a church service)
premiership;the office of premier
conflict;a hostile meeting of opposing military forces in the course of a war. 'grant won a decisive victory in the battle of chickamauga'. 'he lost his romantic ideas about war when he got into a real engagement'
close supporting fire;fire on enemy troops or weapons or positions that are near the supported unit and are the most immediate and serious threat to it
swan dive;a dive in which the diver arches the back with arms outstretched before entering the water
desensitization technique;a technique used in behavior therapy to treat phobias and other behavior problems involving anxiety. client is exposed to the threatening situation under relaxed conditions until the anxiety reaction is extinguished
playacting;the performance of a part or role in a drama
employment;the act of giving someone a job
twist;any clever (deceptive) maneuver. 'he would stoop to any device to win a point'
verbolatry;worship of words
skateboarding;the sport of skating on a skateboard
officiation;the act of umpiring
tug of war;any hard struggle between equally matched groups
presence;the act of being present
warfare;an active struggle between competing entities. 'a price war'. 'a war of wits'. 'diplomatic warfare'
real tennis;an ancient form of tennis played in a four-walled court
desensitization procedure;a technique used in behavior therapy to treat phobias and other behavior problems involving anxiety. client is exposed to the threatening situation under relaxed conditions until the anxiety reaction is extinguished
chateau thierry;a world war i battle in nw france where the allies defeated the germans in 1918
spatter;the act of splashing a (liquid) substance on a surface
crap shooting;a gambling game using two dice
pneumonectomy;surgical removal of a lung (usually to treat lung cancer)
series;a serialized set of programs. 'a comedey series'
hit;a successful stroke in an athletic contest (especially in baseball). 'he came all the way around on williams' hit'
belleau wood;a world war i battle in nw france where the allies defeated the germans in 1918
program;a performance (or series of performances) at a public presentation. 'the program lasted more than two hours'
mapping;(genetics) the process of locating genes on a chromosome
snuggle;a close and affectionate (and often prolonged) embrace
veto;a vote that blocks a decision
airplane mechanics;the craft of building and repairing airplanes
layout;the act of laying out (as by making plans for something)
orison;reverent petition to a deity
contestation;a dispute where there is strong disagreement. 'they were involved in a violent argument'
summary judgment;a judgment rendered by the court prior to a verdict because no material issue of fact exists and one party or the other is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law
tutelage;teaching individually pupils (usually hired privately)
football;any of various games played with a ball (round or oval) in which two teams try to kick or carry or propel the ball into each other's goal
imparting;the transmission of information
monsoon;any wind that changes direction with the seasons
judgeship;the position of judge
chief executive;the office of the us head of state. 'a president is elected every four years'
al alamayn;in world war ii (1942). a decisive allied victory over german troops under rommel
piecework;work paid for according to the quantity produced
boxing;fighting with the fists
murder conviction;conviction for murder
folktale;a tale circulated by word of mouth among the common folk
line single;a single resulting from a line drive
rhythm method;an attempt to control conception by refraining from intercourse during the period when ovulation is most likely to occur
worship of man;worship of human beings
two base hit;a base hit on which the batter stops safely at second base. ' he hit a double to deep centerfield'
navy secretary;head of a former executive department. combined with the war secretary to form the defense secretary in 1947
sea breeze;a cooling breeze from the sea (during the daytime)
return;a reply to a question or remark (especially a witty or critical one). 'it brought a sharp rejoinder from the teacher'
battle of fredericksburg;an important battle in the american civil war (1862). the union's army of the potomac under a. e. burnside was defeated by the confederate army of northern virginia under robert e. lee
chaplaincy;the position of chaplain
disassembly;the act of taking something apart (as a piece of machinery). 'russia and the us discussed the dismantling of their nuclear weapons'
indulging;the act of indulging or gratifying a desire
punishment;the act of punishing
denial;renunciation of your own interests in favor of the interests of others
interview;the questioning of a person (or a conversation in which information is elicited). often conducted by journalists. 'my interviews with teen-agers revealed a weakening of religious bonds'
placement;contact established between applicants and prospective employees. 'the agency provided placement services'
downfall;the falling to earth of rain or snow or hail or sleet or mist
alert;a warning serves to make you more alert to danger
disarmament;act of reducing or depriving of arms: 'the disarmament of the aggressor nations must be complete'
fete;an organized series of acts and performances
vaudeville;a variety show with songs and comic acts etc.
home movie;a film made at home by an amateur photographer
flag waving;an appeal intended to arouse patriotic emotions
deification;the elevation of a person to the status of a god
arthrocentesis;removal of fluid from a joint by centesis
interactive multimedia;a multimedia system in which related items of information are connected and can be presented together
steel production;making steel from pig iron
strengthening;the act of fortifying or strengthening defenses
city planning;determining and drawing up plans for the future physical arrangement and condition of a community
sale;a particular instance of selling. 'he has just made his first sale'. 'they had to complete the sale before the banks closed'
foul;(in baseball) a ball struck with the bat so that it does not stay between the foul lines on the playing field
contest;a struggle between rivals
industrialization;the development of industry on an extensive scale
morris dance;any of various english folk dances performed by men in costume
civility;the act of showing regard for others
censorship;counterintelligence achieved by banning or deleting any information of value to the enemy
puff;a short light gust of air
beagling;hunting rabbits with beagles
make;the act of mixing cards haphazardly
snorkel diving;skin diving with a snorkel
shaving;the act of brushing against while passing
surgical operation;a therapeutic procedure with instruments to repair damage or arrest disease in a living body. 'they will schedule the operation as soon as an operating room is available'. 'he died while undergoing surgery'
shore duty;naval service at land bases
dissidence;disagreement. especially disagreement with the government
ad blitz;an organized program of advertisements
stroke;a light touch with the hands
vivifying;the activity of giving vitality and vigour to something
acquiescence;agreement with a statement or proposal. 'he gave his assent eagerly'. 'a murmur of consent from the assembly'
determination;the act of determining the properties of somethingthe act of determining the properties of something
concoction;the act of creating something by compounding or mixing raw materials
locating;a determination of the location of something. 'he got a good fix on the target'
pocket billiards;any of various games played on a pool table having 6 pockets
hurdle;the act of vaulting
sedation;the administration of a sedative agent or drug
ringing;the giving of a ring as a token of engagement
bit;a short theatrical performance that is part of a longer program. 'he did his act three times every evening'. 'she had a catchy little routine'. 'it was one of the best numbers he ever did'
secretary of health education and welfare;head of a former executive department created in 1953 and divided into two departments in 1979
splashing;the act of splashing a (liquid) substance on a surface
love feast;a religious meal shared as a sign of love and fellowship
ad campaign;an organized program of advertisements
electronic jamming;deliberate radiation or reflection of electromagnetic energy for the purpose of disrupting enemy use of electronic devices or systems
expansion;an interpretation that provides additional information
pugilism;fighting with the fists
encoding;the activity of converting from plain text into code
sexual conquest;a seduction culminating in sexual intercourse. 'calling his seduction of the girl a 'score' was a typical example of male slang'
secondment;the detachment of a person from their regular organization for temporary assignment elsewhere
number;a short theatrical performance that is part of a longer program. 'he did his act three times every evening'. 'she had a catchy little routine'. 'it was one of the best numbers he ever did'
blandishment;the act of urging by means of teasing or flattery
excavation;the act of digging. 'there's an interesting excavation going on near princeton'
tally;a score in baseball made by a runner touching all four bases safely. 'the yankees scored 3 runs in the bottom of the 9th' or 'their first tally came in the 3rd inning'
cabaret;a series of acts at a night club
fly casting;casting an artificial fly as a lure
battle of verdun;a battle in world war i (1916). in some of the bloodiest fighting in world war i the german offensive was stopped
materials handling;act of loading and unloading and moving goods within e.g. a factory especially using mechanical devices
succession;acquisition of property by descent or by will
picture taking;the act of taking and printing photographs
bingle;the successful act of striking a baseball in such a way that the batter reaches base safely
couture;high fashion designing and dressmaking
sojourn;temporary residence
battle of st mihiel;a battle in the meuse-argonne operation in world war i (1918). the battle in which american troops launched their first offensive in france
running;the act of participating in an athletic competition involving running on a track
denationalisation;changing something from state to private ownership or control
draw;poker in which a player can discard cards and receive substitutes from the dealer. 'he played only draw and stud'
getaway;a rapid escape (as by criminals). 'the thieves made a clean getaway'. 'after the expose he had to take it on the lam'
whispering campaign;the organized dissemination of derogatory rumors designed to discredit a candidate
blending;a gradation involving small or imperceptible differences between grades
relation;an act of narration. 'he was the hero according to his own relation'. 'his endless recounting of the incident eventually became unbearable'
penny ante;a business deal on a trivial scale
close order drill;(military) military drill of troops in standard marching (shoulder-to-shoulder)
whipping;beating with a whip or strap or rope as a form of punishment
parliament;a card game in which you play your sevens and other cards in sequence in the same suit as their sevens. you win if you are the first to use all your cards
concession;the act of conceding or yielding
concealing;the activity of keeping something secret
call;a request. 'many calls for christmas stories'. 'not many calls for buggywhips'
hairdressing;care for the hair: the activity of washing or cutting or curling or arranging the hair
touch football;a version of football in which the ball carrier is touched rather than tackled
proof;the act of finding or testing the truth of something
finding of fact;the findings of a jury on issues of fact submitted to it for decision. can be used in formulating a judgment
escape;a means or way of escaping. 'hard work was his escape from worry'. 'they installed a second hatch as an escape'. 'their escape route'
deposition;the act of deposing someone
energy secretary;the position of the head of the department of energy. 'the post of energy secretary was created in 1977'
overprotection;excessive protection
air;medium for radio and television broadcasting. 'the program was on the air from 9 til midnight'. 'the president used the airwaves to take his message to the people'
impartation;the transmission of information
civil disobedience;a group's refusal to obey orders in protest against discrimination
search;boarding and inspecting a ship on the high seas. 'right of search'
stampede;a headlong rush of people on a common impulse. 'when he shouted 'fire' there was a stampede to the exits'
leak;unauthorized (esp. deliberate) disclosure of confidential information
cradlesong;a quiet song that lulls a child to sleep
leaving;act of departing
boer war;either of two wars: the first when the boers fought england in order to regain the independence they had given up to obtain british help against the zulus (1880-1881). the second when the orange free state and transvaal declared war on britain (1899-1902)
portrayal;acting the part of a character on stage
public speaking;delivering an address to a public audience. 'the people came to see the candidates and hear the speaking'
emplacement;the act of putting something in a certain place or location
walkout;a strike in which the worker walk out
position;the function or position properly or customarily occupied or served by another: 'can you go in my stead?'. 'took his place'. 'in lieu of'
alms;voluntary contributions to aid the poor
go fish;a game for two players who try to assemble books of cards by asking the opponent for particular cards
hearsay;gossip (usually a mixture of truth and untruth) passed around by word of mouth
curve;a baseball thrown with spin so that its path curves as it approach the batter
talk;idle gossip or rumor. 'there has been talk about you lately'
renouncement;a verbal act of renouncing
standardisation;the imposition of a standard
carrying out;the act of accomplishing some aim or executing some order. 'the agency was created for the implementation of the policy'
arboriculture;the cultivation of tree for the production of timber
booze up;an occasion for heavy drinking. 'they went on a bust that lasted three days'
banking;transacting business with a bank
veneering;the act of applying veneer
dramatic performance;a performance of a drama
landing;the act of coming to land after a voyage
irrigation;supplying dry land with water by means of ditches etc
sailing;the work of a sailor
bestowment;the act of conferring an honor or presenting a gift
convening;the act of convening
specialty;the special line of work you have adopted as your career. 'his specialization is gastroenterology'
re creation;the act of creating again
anthropometry;measurement and study of the human body and its parts and capacities
discovery;the act of discovering something
parceling;the act of distributing by allotting or apportioning. 'the apportionment of seats in the house of representatives is based on the relative populaton of each state'
sustaining program;a program without a commercial sponsor
physical therapy;therapy that uses physical agents: exercise and massage and other modalities
karate;a traditional japanese system of unarmed combat. sharp blows and kicks are given to pressure-sensitive points on the body of the opponent
dip;a brief swim in water
showjumping;riding horses in competitions over set courses to demonstrate skill in jumping over obstacles
war;an active struggle between competing entities. 'a price war'. 'a war of wits'. 'diplomatic warfare'
succour;assistance in time of difficulty. 'the contributions provided some relief for the victims'
recusancy;refusal to submit to established authority. originally the refusal of roman catholics to attend services of the church of england
telling;disclosing information or giving evidence about another
reconnaissance by fire;a method of reconnaissance in which fire is placed on a suspected enemy position in order to cause the enemy to disclose his presence by moving or returning fire
anthropolatry;worship of human beings
standoff;a successful stand
orgy;any act of immoderate indulgence
pinochle;a card game played with a 48-card pack (two of each suit for high cards). play resembles whist
pillaging;the act of stealing valuable things from a place. 'the plundering of rome'. 'his plundering of the great authors'
jig;any of various old rustic dances involving kicking and leaping
discount business;the business of selling merchandise at a discount
neurectomy;surgical removal of all or part of a nerve
fly fishing;angling with an artificial fly as a lure
self organization;organizing yourself (especially organizing your own labor union)
transportation secretary;the position of the head of the department of transportation. 'the post of transportation secretary was created in 1966
3 hitter;a game in which a pitcher allows the opposing team only 3 hits
soft shoe shuffle;tap dancing wearing soft-soled shoes
tenancy;an act of being a tenant or occupant
jest;activity characterized by good humor
population control;control over the growth of population. a government program
embrace;the act of clasping another person in the arms (as in greeting or affection)
sigmoidectomy;surgical removal of part or all of the sigmoid colon (usually to remove a malignant tumor)
civil censorship;military censorship of civilian communications (correspondence or printed matter of films) entering or leaving of circulating within territories controlled by armed forces
racing;the sport of engaging in contests of speed
syracuse;the athenian siege of syracuse (415-413 bc) was eventually won by syracuse
bathing;the act of washing yourself (or another person)
elementary education;education in elementary subjects (reading and writing and arithmetic) provided to young students at a grade school
tailwind;wind blowing in the same direction as the path of a ship or aircraft
fingerprinting;the procedure of taking inked impressions of a person's fingerprints
look;the act of directing the eyes toward something and perceiving it visually. 'he went out to have a look'. 'his look was fixed on her eyes'. 'he gave it a good looking at'. 'his camera does his looking for him'
pulling out;a contraceptive method in which coitus is initiated but the penis is deliberately withdrawn before ejaculation
tertry;a battle in france in 687 among the descendants of clovis
fatigue duty;labor of a nonmilitary kind done by soldiers (cleaning or digging or draining or so on). 'the soldiers were put on fatigue to teach them a lesson'
swing;a square dance figure. a pair of dancers join hands and dance around a point between them
bunt;the act of hitting a baseball lightly without swinging the bat
portrayal;representation by drawing or painting etc
enforcement;the act of enforcing
stamp collection;the collection and study of postage stamps
athletics;participation in sports events as an extracurricular_activity
travelog;a film or illustrated lecture on traveling
arab israeli war;egypt and syria attacked israel in october 1973 (on yom kippur). israel counterattacked and drove the syrians back and crossed the suez canal into egypt
fostering;raising someone to be an accepted member of the community. 'they debated whether nature or nurture was more important'
agriculture;a large-scale farming enterprise
repudiation;the exposure of falseness or pretensions. 'the debunking of religion has been too successful'
ratting;to furnish incriminating evidence to an officer of the law (usually in return for favors)
overindulgence;excessive indulgence. 'the child was spoiled by overindulgence'
traffic;social or verbal interchange (usually followed by 'with')
detecting;the investigation of criminal activities to determine the perpetrator. 'detection is hard on the feet'
precession;the act of preceding
promise;a verbal commitment by one person to another agreeing to do (or not to do) something in the future
sassing;an impudent or insolent rejoinder. 'don't give me any of your sass'
comeback;a reply to a question or remark (especially a witty or critical one). 'it brought a sharp rejoinder from the teacher'
getting;the act of acquiring something. 'i envied his talent for acquiring new friends'. 'did you hear about his getting a car?'
earned run;a run that was not scored as the result of an error by the other team
auction bridge;a variety of bridge in which tricks made in excess of the contract are scored toward game. now generally superseded by contract bridge
ovariectomy;surgical removal of one of both ovaries
rum;a card game based on collecting sets and sequences. the winner is the first to meld all their cards
diabolatry;worship of devils
mantineia;the site of three famous battles among greek city-states: in 418 bc and 362 bc and 207 bc
carouse;a merry drinking party
fish;a game for two players who try to assemble books of cards by asking the opponent for particular cards
fishing;the act of someone who fishes as a diversion
poundage;placing private property in the custody of an officer of the law
reburial;the act of burying again
tryst;a secret rendezvous (especially between lovers)
turbulence;instability in the atmosphere
avoidance;deliberately avoiding
gunplay;a fight involving shooting small arms with the intent to kill or frighten
seventh crusade;a crusade initiated in 1248 after the loss of jerusalem in 1244 and and defeated in 1249
party game;a game to amuse guests at a party
sub test;one of a battery of related tests
numbers;an illegal daily lottery
portion;the result of parcelling out or sharing. 'death gets more than its share of attention from theologicans'
sermon on the mount;the first major discourse delivered by jesus. matthew 5-7 and luke 6:20-49
dressing;the act of applying a bandage
choreography;artistic dancing
banishment;the act of banishing someone
gouge;the act of gouging
repatriation;the act of returning to the country of origin
incurrence;the act of incurring (making yourself subject to something undesirable)
toot;an occasion for heavy drinking. 'they went on a bust that lasted three days'
war of american independence;the revolution of the american colonies against great britain. 1775-1783
coursing;hunting with dogs that are trained to chase game by sight instead of by scent
haulage;the act of drawing or hauling something. 'the haul up the hill went very slowly'
agape;a religious meal shared as a sign of love and fellowship
dressage;maneuvers of a horse in response to body signals by the rider
trucking;the activity of transporting goods by truck
battle of tertry;a battle in france in 687 among the descendants of clovis
lavishness;excessive spending
blessing;a short prayer of thanks before a meal
curtailment;the act of suppressing
ritual dancing;a dance that is part of a religious ritual
commercial enterprise;"the activity of providing goods and services involving financial and commercial and industrial aspects. 'computers are now widely used in business'"the activity of providing goods and services involving financial and commercial and industrial aspects. 'computers are now widely used in business'
consolation;the act of consoling. giving relief in affliction. 'his presence was a consolation to her'
renunciation;rejecting as invalid
towage;the act of hauling something (as a vehicle) by means of a hitch or rope. 'the truck gave him a tow to the garage'
interactive multimedia system;a multimedia system in which related items of information are connected and can be presented together
mouth;an impudent or insolent rejoinder. 'don't give me any of your sass'
jamboree;a gay festivity
elements;violent or severe weather (viewed as caused by the action of the four elements). 'they felt the full fury of the elements'
hunger strike;a fast by a prisoner as a means of protest
grading;the act of arranging in a graduated series
debauchery;a wild gathering involving excessive drinking and promiscuity
smuggling;secretly importing prohibited goods or goods on which duty is due
iran iraq war;a dispute over control of the waterway between iraq and iran broke out into open fighting in 1980 and continued until 1988, when they accepted a un cease-fire resolution
special;a television production that features a particular person or work or topic. 'the last of a series of bbc specials on iran is being shown tonight'
appearing;formal attendance (in court or at a hearing) of a party in an action
actualization;making real or giving the appearance of reality
kick in the butt;punishment inflicted by kicking the victim in the behind
tactical warning;(military) a warning after the initiation of a hostile act
inoculating;the act of protecting against disease by introducing a vaccine into the body to induce immunity
construction;the act of constructing or building something. 'during the construction we had to take a detour'. 'his hobby was the building of boats'
hypostatization;regarding something abstract as a material thing
roughness;used of the sea
work;the occupation for which you are paid. 'he is looking for a job'. 'a lot of people are out of work'
oral;an examination conducted by word of mouth
fling;a brief indulgence of your impulses
meniscectomy;surgical removal of the meniscus of the knee
scrimmage;practice play between a football team's squads
somme;battle in world war i (1916)
trading operations;financial transactions at a brokerage. having to do with the execution of trades and keeping customer records
pitch;an all-fours game in which the first card led is a trump
rowing;the act of rowing as a sport
counterintelligence;intelligence activities concerned with identifying and counteracting the threat to security posed by hostile intelligence organizations or by individuals engaged in espionage or sabotage or subversion or terrorism
conventionalisation;the act of stylizing. causing to conform to a particular style
boycott;a group's refusal to have commercial dealings with some organization in protest against its policies
cartage;the work of carting
sideline;an auxiliary activity
ploy;a maneuver in a game or conversation
brush off;a curt or disdainful rejection
murmuring;a complaint uttered in a low and indistinct tone
argonne;an american operation in world war i (1918). american troops under pershing drove back the german armies which were saved only by the armistice on november 11
partial verdict;a finding (in criminal law) that the defendant is guilty of some charges but innocent of others
safe harbor;the target company defends itself by acquiring a company so onerously regulated that it makes the target less attractive (gives it a safe harbor)
pac man strategy;the target company defends itself by threatening to take over its acquirer
metrazol shock;the administration of sufficient metrazol to induce convulsions and coma
defensive measure;military action or resources protecting a country against potential enemies. 'they died in the defense of stalingrad'. 'they were developed for the defense program'
finger painting;painting by using the fingers to spread the paint
american football;a game played by two teams of 11 players on a rectangular field 100 yards long. teams try to get possession of the ball and advance it across the opponents goal line in a series of (running or passing) plays
amnesty;the formal act of liberating someone
waterloo;the battle on 18 june 1815 in which napoleon met his final defeat. prussian and british forces under blucher and the duke of wellington routed the french forces under napoleon
beheading;execution by cutting off the victim's head
prelacy;the office or station of a prelate
dalliance;playful behavior intended to arouse sexual interest
calendar method of birth control;an attempt to control conception by refraining from intercourse during the period when ovulation is most likely to occur
saturnalia;a wild gathering involving excessive drinking and promiscuity
peek;a secret look
gambling;the act of playing for stakes in the hope of winning (including the payment of a price for a chance to win a prize). 'his gambling cost him a fortune'. 'there was heavy play at the blackjack table'
disgorgement;the act of ejecting the contents of the stomach through the mouth
dowsing;searching for underground water or minerals by using a dowsing rod
absence;failure to be present
garbage collection;the collection and removal of garbage
war of nerves;the use of psychological tactics to destroy the opponents' morale
forsaking;the act of forsaking
practice;systematic training by multiple repetitions. 'practice makes perfect'
three day event;an equestrian competition. the first day is dressage. the second is cross-country jumping. the third is stadium jumping
implementation;the act of implementing (providing a practical means for accomplishing something)
commerce;"transactions having the objective of supplying commodities"transactions having the objective of supplying commodities
plassey;the victory in 1757 by the british under clive over siraj-ud-daula that establish british supremacy over india
interpretive dance;a form of modern dance in which the dancer's movements depict an emotion or tell a story
interior design;the trade of planning the layout and furnishings of an architectural interior
tenting;the act of encamping and living in tents in a camp
benefit concert;a concert given for the benefit of some charitable cause
hopscotch;a child tosses a stone into an area drawn on the ground and then hops through it and back to regain the stone
dry walling;the activity of building stone walls without mortar
rigamarole;a long and complicated and confusing procedure. 'all that academic rigmarole was a waste of time'
countermove;an attack by a defending force against an attacking enemy force in order to regain lost ground or cut off enemy advance units etc.
shovelboard;a game in which players use long sticks to shove wooden disks onto the scoring area marked on a smooth surface
underground railway;abolitionists secret aid to escaping slaves. pre-civil war in us
rap;a form of vocal music in which rhyming lyrics are chanted to a musical accompaniment
fourth crusade;a crusade from 1202 to 1204 that was diverted into a battle for constantinople and failed to recapture jerusalem
am;modulation of the amplitude of the (radio) carrier wave
paperhanging;the application of wallpaper
performance;the act of doing something successfully. using knowledge as distinguished from merely possessing it. 'experience generally improves performance'
winemaking;the craft and science of making wine
favor;an act of gracious kindness
automotive engineering;the activity of designing and constructing automobiles
trade protection;the imposition of duties or quotas on imports in order to protect domestic industry against foreign competition. 'he made trade protection a plank in the party platform'
review;a second (or subsequent) examination
standardisation;the act of checking or adjusting (by comparison with a standard) the accuracy of a measuring instrument. 'the thermometer needed calibration'
art class;a class in which you learn to draw or paint
accounting;the occupation of maintaining and auditing records and preparing financial reports for a business
journalism;the profession of reporting or photographing or editing news stories for one of the media
snow eater;a warm dry wind blowing down the e slopes of the rockies
floatation;financing a commercial enterprise by bond or stock shares
cholecystectomy;surgical removal of the gall bladder (usually for relief of gallstone pain)
enfranchisement;the act of certifying
reclassification;classifying something again (usually in a new category)
injection;the act of putting a liquid into the body by means of a syringe. 'the nurse gave him a flu shot'
peep;a secret look
jitterbug;a jerky american dance that was popular in the 1940s
exchange;the act of giving something in return for something received. 'deductible losses on sales or exchanges of property are allowable'
comb out;the act of carefully weeding out unwanted things or people. 'the department got a good comb-out'
belly whopper;a dive in which the abdomen bears the main force of impact with the water
argonne forest;an american operation in world war i (1918). american troops under pershing drove back the german armies which were saved only by the armistice on november 11
injunction;a formal command or admonition
default;loss due to not showing up. 'he lost the game by default'
glorification;a portrayal of something as ideal. 'the idealization of rural life was very misleading'
execution;the act of accomplishing some aim or executing some order. 'the agency was created for the implementation of the policy'
dance lesson;a lesson in dancing
 great war;a war between the allies (russia france british-empire italy us japan rumania serbia belgium greece portugal montenegro) and the central powers (germany austro-hungary turkey bulgaria) from 1914 to 1918
treasurership;the position of treasurer
world premiere;the first public performance (as of a dramatic or musical work) anywhere in the world
birth control;limiting the number of children born
ablution;the act of washing yourself (or another person)
game;an amusement or pastime. 'he thought of his painting as a game that filled his empty time'. 'his life was all fun and games'
clear air turbulence;strong turbulence in an otherwise cloudless region that subjects aircraft to violent updrafts or downdrafts
handball;a game played in a walled court or against a single wall by two or four players who strike a rubber ball with their hands
standdown;(military) withdrawal of a military presence
battle of lule burgas;the principal battle of the balkan wars (1912). bulgarian forces defeated the turks
foraging;the act of searching for food and provisions
ravaging;plundering with excessive damage and destruction
horse breeding;breeding horses
new deal;a reapportioning of something
three point landing;a landing in which all three wheels of the aircraft touch the ground at the same time
consideration;a considerate and thoughtful act
house painting;the occupation of a house painter. 'house painting was the only craft he knew'
witch hazel;an astringent alcoholic solution containing an extract from the witch hazel plant
jamming;deliberate radiation or reflection of electromagnetic energy for the purpose of disrupting enemy use of electronic devices or systems
laying on;the act of contacting something with your hand. 'peonies can be blighted by the laying on of a finger'
foray;a sudden short attack
war;a war of england and prussia against france and austria (1756-1763). britain and prussia got the better of it
arbitrage;a kind of hedged investment meant to capture slight differences in price. when there is a difference in the price of something on two different markets the arbitrageur simultaneously buys at the lower price and sells at the higher price
prefrontal lobotomy;surgical interruption of nerve tracts to and from the frontal lobe of the brain
vendetta;a feud in which members of the opposing parties murder each other
rebuff;an instance of driving away or warding off
bundling;the act of shoving hastily. 'she complained about bundling the children off to school'
orgy;secret rite in the cults of ancient greek or roman deities involving singing and dancing and drinking and sexual activity
algometry;measuring sensitivity to pain or pressure
appeasement;the act of appeasing
animal husbandry;breeding and caring for farm animals
defense;a defendant's answer or plea denying the truth of the charges against him. 'he gave evidence for the defense'
raising;raising someone to be an accepted member of the community. 'they debated whether nature or nurture was more important'
battle of pharsalus;caesar defeated pompey in 48 bc
arborolatry;worship of trees
delineation;representation by drawing or painting etc
bowling;a game in which balls are rolled at an object or group of objects with the aim of knocking them over
mass spectroscopy;the use of spectroscopy to determine the masses of small electrically charged particles
mistaking;putting the wrong interpretation on. 'his misinterpretation of the question caused his error' or 'there was no mistaking her meaning'
threat;a warning that something unpleasant is immanent. 'they were under threat of arrest'
publicizing;the business of drawing public attention to goods and services
crib;a card game in which each player is dealt 6 cards and discards one or two to make up the crib
sun worship;worship of the sun
minesweeping;the activity of detecting and disposing of marine mines
approval;the formal act of giving approval: 'he gave the project his blessing'. 'his decision merited the approval of any sensible person'
human action;"something that people do or cause to happen"
epilogue;a short speech (often in verse) addressed directly to the audience by an actor at the end of a play
shipping;the commercial enterprise of transporting goods and materials
animation;the making of animated cartoons
mardi gras;the pre-lenten festival of shrove tuesday
coaching job;the job of a professional coach
percussion;tapping a part of the body for diagnostic purposes
pyrrhic;an ancient greek dance imitating the motions of warfare
callisthenic exercise;light exercise designed to promote general fitness
pall mall;a 17th c game. a wooden ball was driven along an alley with a mallet
caesarean;the delivery of a fetus by surgical incision through the abdominal wall and uterus (from the belief that julius caesar was born that way)
incumbency;a duty that is incumbent upon you
surprise attack;an attack without warning
rumble;a fight between rival gangs of adolescents
kiss;a caress with the lips
bobsledding;riding on a bobsled
horseshow;a competitive exhibition of horses
walkover;any activity that is easy to do. 'marketing this product will be no picnic'
midway;naval battle of world war ii (june 1942). land and carrier-based american planes decisively defeated a japanese fleet on its way to invade the midway islands
capacity;a specified function. 'he was employed in the capacity of director'. 'he should be retained in his present capacity at a higher salary'
councillorship;the position of council member
guadalcanal;a battle in world war ii in the pacific (1942-1943). the island was occupied by the japanese and later recaptured by american forces
grazing;the act of brushing against while passing
song and dance;theatrical performance combining singing and dancing
labor;any piece of work
short shrift;brief and unsympathetic treatment
coup d etat;a sudden and decisive change of government illegally or by force
teaching;the profession of a teacher. 'he prepared for teaching while still in college'. 'pedagogy is recognized as an important profession'
crush;the act of crushing
pyrrhic;a metrical unit with unstressed-unstressed syllables
hell;(colloquial) violent and excited activity. 'they began to fight like sin'
updraft;an strong upward air current
cinema verite;a movie that shows ordinary people in actual activities without being controlled by a director
collectivisation;the organization of a nation or economy on the basis of collectivism
animation;the activity of giving vitality and vigour to something
card trick;a trick performed with playing cards
sport;an active diversion requiring physical exertion and competitionan active diversion requiring physical exertion and competition
electroconvulsive therapy;the administration of a strong electric current that passes through the brain to induce convulsions and coma
acquiescence;submission without protest
conditioner;exercise that conditions the body. 'farmwork can be a good conditioner'
soft shoe;tap dancing wearing soft-soled shoes
spying;the act of detecting something. catching sight of something
damper;a depressing restraint. 'rain put a damper on our picnic plans'
retraction;a disavowal of a previous assertion
beatification;(roman catholic church) the act of declaring that a deceased person lived a holy life and is worthy of public veneration. a first step toward canonization
northwest wind;a wind from the northwest
schottische;a german round dance resembling a slow polka
viziership;the position of vizier
reorganisation;the act of imposing a new organization
knife fight;fighting with knives
wool fat;a salve containing a fatty substance obtained from the wool of sheep
money laundering;concealing the source of illegally gotten money
crowing;an instance of boastful talk. 'his brag is worse than his fight'
work;activity directed toward making or doing something. 'she checked several points needing further work'
direction;the act of setting and holding a course. 'a new council was installed under the direction of the king'
refund;the act of returning money received previously
rallying;the feat of mustering strength for a renewed effort. 'he singled to start a rally in the 9th inning'. 'he feared the rallying of their troops for a counterattack'
closed heart surgery;heart surgery in which a small incision is made in the heart. a heart-lung machine is not required
acrobatic stunt;a stunt performed by an acrobat
homage;respectful deference. 'pay court to the emperor'
dardanelles;the unsuccessful campaign in world war i (1915) by the english and french to open a passage for aid to russia. defeated by the turks
cabinetmaking;the draft of a joiner
target practice;practice in shooting at targets
commination;prayers proclaiming god's anger against sinners. read in the church of england on ash wednesday
communication;the activity of communicating
marshaling;act of assembling or organizing and making ready for use or action: 'mobiliation of the country's economic resources'. 'marshaling public support'
measuring;the act or process of measuring. 'he made a careful measurement'. 'his mental measurings proved remarkably accurate'
arrest;the act of stopping (usually stopping motion). 'the heart was in arrest'. 'war caused a check in the company's growth'. 'the momentary stay enabled him to escape the blow'
documentary;a film or tv program presenting the facts about a person or event
readying;the activity of preparing
subordination;the act of mastering or subordinating someone
mental measurement;a generic term used to cover any application of measurement techniques to the quantification of mental functions
defense;military action or resources protecting a country against potential enemies. 'they died in the defense of stalingrad'. 'they were developed for the defense program'
swap;an equal exchange. 'we had no money so we hd to live by barter'
impress;the act of coercing someone into government service
parcel;the result of parcelling out or sharing. 'death gets more than its share of attention from theologicans'
jeremiad;a long and mournful complaint. 'a jeremiad against any form of government'
bataan;the peninsula and island in the philippines where japanese forces besieged american forces in world war ii. us surrendered in 1942 and recaptured the area in 1945
viva voce;an examination conducted by word of mouth
shogi;(japanese) a form of chess played on a board of 81 squares. each player has 20 pieces
artillery;a means of persuading or arguing. 'he used all his conversational weapons'
once over;a swift cursory examination or inspection. 'i gave him the once-over'
lumbar puncture;removal of fluid from the subarachnoid space of the lumbar region of the spinal cord for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes
word play;playing on words or speech sounds
apostasy;the act of abandoning a party or cause
phrasing;the grouping of musical phrases in a melodic line
obligation;the social force that binds you to your obligations and the courses of action demanded by that force: 'we must instill a sense of duty in our children'. 'every right implies a responsibility. every opportunity, an obligation. every possession, a duty'- john d.rockefeller jr
lesson;a task assigned for individual study. 'he did the lesson for today'
secondary censorship;armed forces censorship of the personal communications of officers or civilian employees or enlisted personnel not subject to primary censorship
enticement;the act of influencing by exciting hope or desire. 'his enticements were shameless'
subjugation;the act of conquering
procedure;a mode of conducting legal and parliamentary proceedings
timekeeping;the act or process of determining the time
doldrums;a belt of calms and light winds between the northern and southern trade winds of the atlantic and pacific
construction;an interpretation of a text or action. 'they put an unsympathetic construction on his conduct'
circularization;circulating printed notices as a means of advertising
difference;a disagreement or argument about something important. 'he had a dispute with his wife'. 'there were irreconcilable differences'. 'the familiar conflict between republicans and democrats'
air mass;a large body of air with uniform characteristics horizontally
show;a public entertainment or exhibition. 'a remarkable show of skill'
centesis;(surgery) the act of puncturing a body cavity or organ with a hollow needle in order to draw out fluid
recital;performance of music or dance especially by soloists
fraudulent scheme;an illegal enterprise (such as extortion or fraud or drug peddling or prostitution) carried on for profit
dispensing;the act of dispensing (giving out in portions)
rubbing alcohol;a poisonous solution of isopropyl alcohol or denatured ethanol alcohol for external use
billiards;any of several games played on rectangular cloth-covered table (with cushioned edges) in which long tapering cue sticks are used to propel ivory (or composition) balls
trente et quarante;a card game in which two rows of cards are dealt and players can bet on the color of the cards or on which row will have a count nearer some number
straight ticket;a ballot cast by a voter who votes for all the candidates of one party
immunisation;the act of making immune (especially by inoculation)
disownment;refusal to acknowledge as one's own
able bodiedism;discrimination in favor of the able-bodied
water skiing;skiing on water while being towed by a motorboat
tracheotomy;a surgical operation that creates an opening into the trachea with a tube inserted to provide a passage for air. performed when the pharynx is obstructed by edema or cancer or other causes
battle of ypres;battle in world war i (1915). germans wanted to try chlorine (a toxic yellow gas) as a weapon and succeeded in taking considerable territory from the allied salient
culture;the raising of plants or animals: 'the culture of oysters'
response;the speech act of continuing a conversational exchange. 'he growled his reply'
checkup;a thorough physical examination. includes a variety of tests depending on the age and sex and health of the person
transport;the commercial enterprise of transporting goods and materials
perfecta;a bet that you can pick the first and second finishers in the right order
rocket launching;the launching of a rocket or missile under its own power
gunshot;the act of shooting a gun. 'the gunfire endangered innocent bystanders'. 'they retreated in the face of withering enemy fire'
flak;firing at enemy aircraft
english revolution;the revolution against james ii of england. there was little armed resistance to william and mary in england altho battles were fought in scotland and ireland (1688-1689)
rating;act of ascertaining or fixing the value or worth of
indicating;the act of indicating
meuse argonne operation;an american operation in world war i (1918). american troops under pershing drove back the german armies which were saved only by the armistice on november 11
salt mine;a job involving drudgery and confinement
screening;the act of concealing the existence of something by obstructing the view of it. 'the cover concealed their guns from enemy aircraft'
apprenticeship;the position of apprentice
bathing;immersing the body in water or sunshine
retake;a shot or scene that is photographed again
bubble dance;a solo dance similar to a fan dance except large balloons are used instead of fans
roundup;the activity of gather livestock together so that they can be counted or branded or sold
accountantship;the position of accountant
boisterousness;a turbulent and stormy state of the sea
mission;a task that has been assigned to a person or group. 'a confidential mission to london'. 'his charge was deliver a message'
fine spray;precipitation in very small drops
nomenklatura;the system of patronage in communist countries. controlled by committees in the communist party
broadcast;a radio or television show. 'did you see his program last night?'
socializing;the act of meeting for social purposes. 'there was too much socialization with the enlisted men'
battle of teutoburger wald;a battle in 9 ad in which the germans under arminius annihilated three roman legions
blood feud;a feud in which members of the opposing parties murder each other
revelation;making something evident
inquiring;a request for information
self fulfillment;the fulfillment of your capacities
legal proceeding;the institution of a sequence of steps by which legal judgments are invoked
squeeze;the act of squeezing. 'he gave her cheek a playful squeeze'
news;a program devoted to news. 'we watch the 7 o'clock news every night'
in fighting;conflict between members of the same organization (usually concealed from outsiders)
penetration;the act of forcing a way into or through something. 'the penetration of upper management by women'
rendition;the act of interpreting something as expressed in an artistic performance
skeet shooting;the sport of shooting at clay pigeons that are hurled upward in such a way as to simulate the flight of a bird
speech therapy;any therapy intended to correct a disorder of speech
jingoism;an appeal intended to arouse patriotic emotions
particularization;an individualized description of a particular instance
suspension;the act of suspending something (hanging it from above so it moves freely). 'there was a small ceremony for the hanging of the portrait'
space walk;any kind of physical activity outside a spacecraft by one of the crew
mezzo soprano;the female singing voice between contralto and soprano
numeration;the act of counting
second crusade;a crusade from 1145 to 1147 that failed because of internal disagreements among the crusaders and led to the loss of jerusalem in 1187
secretary of the navy;head of a former executive department. combined with the war secretary to form the defense secretary in 1947
booking;a job for performers or performing groups that lasts for a limited period of time. 'the play had bookings throughout the summer'
flooding;a technique used in behavior therapy. client is flooded with experiences of a particular kind until becoming either averse to them or numbed to them
strong breeze;wind moving 25-31 knots. 6 on the beaufort scale
situating;the act of putting something in a certain place or location
justice;the administration of law. the act of determining rights and assigning rewards or punishments. 'justice deferred is justice denied'
jutland;an indecisive naval battle in world war i (1916). fought between the british and german fleets off the nw coast of denmark
justification;the act of justifying: 'the justification of barbarous means by holy ends'- h.j.muller
soissons;a battle in world war i (may 1918). the germans tried to attack before the american numbers were too great to defeat. the tactical success of the germans proved to be a strategic failure
shoring up;the act of propping up with shores
rbi;a run that is the result of the batter's performance. 'he had more than 100 rbi last season'
casting;the choice of actors to play particular roles in a play or movie
democratisation;the action of making something democratic
cardiography;recording the activity of the heart electronically with a cardiograph (and producing a cardiogram)
consulship;the post of consul
gastric lavage;washing out the stomach with sterile water or a salt-water solution. removes blood or poisons. 'when the doctor ordered a gastric lavage the hospital pumped out my stomach'
forgiveness;the act of excusing a mistake or offense
warming;warm weather following a freeze. snow and ice melt
war of the roses;struggle for the english throne (1455-1485) between the house of york (white rose) and the house of lancaster (red rose) ending with the accession of the tudor monarch henry vii
tabulation;the act of putting into tabular form. 'the tabulation of the results'
great care;greater care than is normally bestowed by prudent persons. 'the pilot exercised great care in landing'
ranching;farming for the raising of livestock (particularly cattle)
location;a determination of the location of something. 'he got a good fix on the target'
intercommunication;mutual communication
secretary of the treasury;the position of the head of the treasury department. 'the position of treasury secretary was created in 1789'
x ray therapy;the therapeutic use of x rays
canasta;a form of rummy using two decks and four jokers. jokers and deuces are wild. the object is to meld groups of seven of the same rank
weightlifting;exercise by lifting weights
monetisation;establishing something (e.g. gold or silver) as the legal tender of a country
abdominocentesis;centesis of the belly to remove fluid for diagnosis
storm;a direct and violent assault on a stronghold
molding;the act of creating something by casting it in a mold
acquittal;a judgment of not guilty
squall;sudden violent winds. often accompanied by precipitation
charleston;an american ballroom dance in syncopated rhythm. popular early in the 20th century
bridle;the act of restraining power or action or limiting excess. 'his common sense is a bridle to his quick temper'
coaction;act of working jointly: 'they worked either in collaboration or independently'
turkish bath;you sweat in a steam room before getting a rubdown and cold shower
detection;the investigation of criminal activities to determine the perpetrator. 'detection is hard on the feet'
employee owned business;a commercial enterprise owned by the people who work for it
tit tat toe;a game in which two players alternately put crosses and circles in one of the compartments of a 3-by-3 board. the object is to get a row of three crosses or three circles before the opponent does
travail;use of physical or mental energy. hard work. 'he got an a for effort'. 'they managed only with great exertion'
premonition;an early warning about a future event
over the shoulder bombing;a special case of loft bombing in which the bomb is released past the vertical so it is tossed back to the target
functioning;an act or process or manner of functioning or operating: 'the power of its engine determines its operation': 'the plane's performance in high winds'
electroshock;the administration of a strong electric current that passes through the brain to induce convulsions and coma
line;the principal activity in your life. 'he's not in my line of business'
work study program;an educational plan in which students alternate between paid employment and formal study
fictionalisation;writing in a fictional form
cloud cover;the state of the sky when it is covered by clouds
camphor ice;a cerate made of camphor and wax and spermaceti and castor oil
close shave;something achieved (or escaped) by a narrow margin
pachinko;a japanese pinball game played on a vertical board
adulation;the act of admiring strongly
subsidisation;the act of providing a subsidy
d and c;a surgical procedure usually performed under local anesthesia in which the cervix is dilated and the endometrial lining of the uterus is scraped with a curet. performed to obtain tissue samples or to stop prolonged bleeding or to remove small tumors or to remove fragments of placenta after childbirth or as a method of abortion
draw;the act of drawing or hauling something. 'the haul up the hill went very slowly'
blitz;a rapid and violent military attack with intensive aerial bombardment
deal;a particular instance of buying or selling. 'it was a package deal'. 'i had no further trade with him'. 'he's a master of the business deal'
allopathy;the usual method of treating disease with remedies that produce effects differing from those produced by the disease itself
propitiation;the act of atoning for sin or wrongdoing
airlift;transportation by airplanes (especially when other means of access are blocked)
winning;succeeding with great difficulty. 'just winning the shore exhausted him'
risk;a venture undertaken without regard to possible loss or injury. 'he saw the rewards but not the risks of crime'. 'there was a danger he would do the wrong thing'
place;a job in an organization or hierarchy. 'he ocupied a post in the treasury'
harangue;bombastic declamation
manhunt;an organized search (by police) for a person (charged with a crime)
amniocentesis;extraction of amniotic fluid from a pregnant woman (after the 15th week of pregnancy) to aid in the diagnosis of fetal abnormalities
stillness;calmness without winds
adoption;the appropriation (of ideas or words etc) from another source. 'the borrowing of ancient motifs was very apparent'
runoff;a final election to resolve an earlier election that did not produce a winner
nautch dance;an intricate traditional dance in india performed by professional dancing girls
trash collection;the collection and removal of garbage
troth;a mutual promise to marry
chemosurgery;use of chemical to destroy diseased or malignant tissue. used in treatment of skin cancer
job;the occupation for which you are paid. 'he is looking for a job'. 'a lot of people are out of work'
electron microscopy;microscopy with the use of electron microscopes
strike;a score in tenpins: knocking down all ten with the first ball. 'he finished with three strikes in the tenth frame'
pork barreling;acquisition of government money for benefits to a specific locale: 'keeps his hold on his constituents through unashamed pork-barreling'
mantinea;the site of three famous battles among greek city-states: in 418 bc and 362 bc and 207 bc
strain;the act of singing. 'with a shout and a song they marched up to the gates'
defrayment;the act of paying money
major surgery;any surgical procedure that involves anesthesia or respiratory assistance
course credit;educational recognition that a course of studies has been successfully completed
solace;the act of consoling. giving relief in affliction. 'his presence was a consolation to her'
out migration;migration into a place
pedagogy;activities that impart knowledge. 'he received no formal education'
secretary of health and human services;the position of the head of the department of health and human services. 'the post of secretary of health and human services was created by congress in 1979'
fair weather;moderate weather. suitable for outdoor activities
exacta;a bet that you can pick the first and second finishers in the right order
refit;outfitting a ship again (by repairing or replacing parts)
bag;an activity that you like or at which you are superior. 'chemistry is not my cup of tea'. 'his bag now is learning to play golf'. 'marriage was scarcely his dish'
simple mastectomy;removal of a breast leaving the underlying muscles and the lymph nodes intact
obedience;dutiful or submissive behavior
firing off;the act of discharging a gun
monmouth court house;a battle during the american revolution (1778) that ended with the withdrawal of the british forces
figuration;representing figuratively as by emblem or allegory
spin the plate;a game in which something round (as a plate) is spun on edge and the name of a player is called. the named player must catch the spinning object before it falls or pay a forfeit
bailiffship;the office of bailiff
marathon;any long and arduous undertaking
morris dancing;any of various english folk dances performed by men in costume
craniotomy;a surgical opening through the skull
stand;a stop made by a touring musical or theatrical group to give a performance. 'a one-night stand'
support;aiding the cause or policy or interests of. 'the president no longer had the support of his own party'. 'they developed a scheme of mutual support'
hammerlock;a wrestling hold in which the opponent's arm is twisted up behind his back
4 hitter;a game in which a pitcher allows the opposing team 4 hits
slinging;throwing with a wide motion (as if with a sling)
republication;publishing again
propitiation;the act of placating
tirade;a violent denunciation
shadowboxing;sparring with an imaginary opponent (for exercise or training)
despoliation;the act of stripping and taking by force
verdun;a battle in world war i (1916). in some of the bloodiest fighting in world war i the german offensive was stopped
hockey;a game played on an ice rink by two opposing teams of 6 skaters each who try to knock a flat round puck into the opponents' goal with hockey sticks
stay;continuing or remaining in a place. 'they had a nice stay in paris'
attrition;the act of rubbing together. wearing something down by friction
sensitization;rendering an organism sensitive to a serum by a series of injections
slow motion;a movie that apparently takes place at a slower than normal speed. achieved by taking the film at a faster rate
treadmill;a job involving drudgery and confinement
rounders;an english ball game similar to baseball
counterespionage;spying on the spies
sacramental oil;a consecrated mixture of oil and balsam
lieu;the function or position properly or customarily occupied or served by another: 'can you go in my stead?'. 'took his place'. 'in lieu of'
bull s eye;something that exactly succeeds in achieving its goal. 'the new advertising campaign was a bell ringer'. 'scored a bull's_eye'. 'hit the mark'
launching;the act of propelling with force
military action;a military engagement. 'he saw action in korea'
rally;an exchange of several tennis strokes
two hitter;a game in which a pitcher allows the opposing team only 2 hits
defense;protection from harm. 'sanitation is the best defense against disease'
admission;the act of admitting someone to enter. 'the surgery was performed on his second admission to the clinic'
balk;an illegal pitching motion while runners are on base
eyewash;a solution used as a cleanser for the eyes
metalworking;the activity of making things out of metal in a skillful manner
ect;the administration of a strong electric current that passes through the brain to induce convulsions and coma
giveaway;a television or radio program in which contestants compete for awards
processional march;a march to be played for processions
whoopee;noisy and boisterous revelry
evasive action;an action aimed at evading an enemy
agism;discrimination against middle-aged and elderly people
expounding;an interpretation of the meaning of something
kerygma;preaching the gospel of christ in the manner of the early church
amusement;an activity that entertains
demand for explanation;a challenge to defend what someone has said
corporal punishment;the infliction of physical injury on someone convicted of committing a crime
contribution;a writing for publication especially one of a collection of writings as an article or story
rhythm;an attempt to control conception by refraining from intercourse during the period when ovulation is most likely to occur
buzz;a confusion of activity and gossip. 'the buzz of excitement was so great that a formal denial was issued'
contract bridge;a variety of bridge in which the bidder receives points toward game only for the number of tricks he bid
due process of law;the administration of justice according to established rules and principles. based on the principle that a person cannot be deprived of life or liberty or property without appropriate legal procedures and safeguards
farming;working the land as an occupation or way of life. 'farming is a strenuous life'. 'there's no work on the land any more'
dairying;the business of a dairy
spying;keeping a secret or furtive watch
follies;a revue with elaborate costuming
oratory;addressing an audience formally (usually a long and rhetorical address and often pompous). 'he loved the sound of his own oratory'
search;an investigation seeking answers. 'a thorough search of the ledgers revealed nothing' or 'the outcome justified the search'
mobilization;act of assembling and putting into readiness for war or other emergency: 'mobilization of the troops
forced landing;an unscheduled airplane landing that is made under circumstances (engine failure or adverse weather) not under the pilot's control
appearance;formal attendance (in court or at a hearing) of a party in an action
disability insurance;social insurance for the disabled
somersault;an acrobatic feat in which the feet roll over the head (either forward or backward) and return
authorization;the act of authorizing
prophylactic;something that prevents or slows the course of an illness or disease. 'the docotr recommended several preventatives'
snow flurry;a light brief snowfall and gust of wind (or something resembling that). 'he had to close the window against the flurries'. 'there was a flurry of chicken feathers'
split;extending the legs at right angles to the trunks (one in front and the other in back)
bopeep;a game played with young children. you hide your face and suddenly reveal it as you say boo!
military blockade;the action of an armed force that surrounds a fortified place and isolates it while continuing to attack
neutrality;nonparticipation in a dispute or war
bombing;an attack by dropping bombs
conceding;the act of conceding or yielding
drilling;the act of drilling a hole in the earth in the hope of producing petroleum
bestowal;the act of conferring an honor or presenting a gift
hawaiian dancing;a polynesian rain dance performed by a woman
retort;a reply to a question or remark (especially a witty or critical one). 'it brought a sharp rejoinder from the teacher'
interlock;the act of interlocking or meshing. 'an interlocking of arms by the police held the crowd in check'
ring around the rosy;a children's game in which the players dance around in a circle and at a given signal all squat
breakthrough;making an important discovery
via media;a middle way between two extremes
metrazol shock therapy;the administration of sufficient metrazol to induce convulsions and coma
discipline;the act of punishing. 'the offenders deserved the harsh discipline they received'
labor;productive work (especially physical work done for wages). 'his labor did not require a great deal of skill'
industrial enterprise;the development of industry on an extensive scale
osculation;a caress with the lips
reallocation;a new apportionment (especially a reallotment of us congressional seats on the basis of census results)
rock concert;a performance of rock music
gravimetry;the measurement of specific gravity
remilitarization;the act of militarizing again
protest;the act of protesting. a public (often organized) manifestation of dissent
stenography;the act or art of writing in shorthand: 'stenography is no longer a marketable skill'
extemporisation;a performance given without planning or preparation
transmitting;the act of sending a message. causing a message to be transmitted
theatre;the art of writing and producing plays
levy en masse;the act of drafting into military service
pat;a light touch or stroke
publishing;the business of publishing
stiffening;the act or process of making or becoming stiff
bolero;a spanish dance in triple time. accompanied by guitar and castanets
naturopathy;a method of treating disease using food and exercise and heat to assist the natural healing process
clean and jerk;a weightlift in which the barbell is lifted to shoulder height and then jerked overhead
battle of flodden field;a battle in 1513. the english defeated the invading scots and james iv of scotland was killed
cross pollination;stimulating influence among diverse elements. 'the cross-pollination of the arts'
prestidigitation;manual dexterity in the execution of tricks
jerry building;construction of inferior buildings for a quick profit
discourse;an extended communication (often interactive) dealing with some particular topic. 'the book contains an excellent discussion of modal logic'. 'his treatment of the race question is badly biased'
presentment;an accusation of crime made by a grand jury on its own initiative
cancan;a high-kicking dance of french origin performed by a female chorus line
curling;(scotland) a game played on ice. curling stones (heavy stones with handles) are slid toward a target
poetic rhythm;a system of versification
skeet;the sport of shooting at clay pigeons that are hurled upward in such a way as to simulate the flight of a bird
psychotherapy;the treatment of mental or emotional problems by psychological means
shoot  em up;a movie featuring shooting and violence
old sledge;a form of all fours in which a total of seven points is game
registration;the act of enrolling
tuning;calibrating something (a musical instrument or electronic circuit) to a standard frequency
jumping;the act of participating in an athletic competition in which you must jump
snow;precipitation falling from clouds in the form of ice crystals
stigmatisation;the act of stigmatizing
spree;a brief indulgence of your impulses
resurvey;a new survey or study
searching fire;fire distributed in depth by successive changes in the elevation of the gun
salvation;(christianity) the act of delivering from sin or saving from evil
naval blockade;the interdiction of a nation's lines of communication at sea by the use of naval power
glance;a quick look
public exposure;opening to public discussion and debate
pickup;the act of taking aboard passengers or freight
leyte invasion;a battle in world war ii. the return of us troops to the philippines began with landings on leyte island in october 1944. first use of kamikaze aircraft by the japanese
regency;the office of a regent
carbon dating;a chemical analysis used to determine the age of organic materials based on their content of the radioisotope carbon 14
interdiction;authoritative prohibition
laying claim;the act of taking possession of or power over something. 'the nazi assumption of power in 1934'
conge;formal permission to depart. 'he gave me his conge'
duty;work that you are obliged to perform for moral or legal reasons: 'the duties of the job'
localisation;a determination of the location of something. 'he got a good fix on the target'
aircraft landing;landing an aircraft
sigint;intelligence information gathered from communications intelligence or electronics intelligence or telemetry intelligence
impounding;placing private property in the custody of an officer of the law
dodging;deliberately avoiding
positron emission tomography;using a computerized radiographic technique to examine the metabolic activity in various tissues (especially in the brain)
washing;the work of washing or cleansing
harlequinade;acting like a clown or buffoon
counting;the act of counting
class struggle;conflict between social or economic classes (especially between the capitalist and proletariat classes)
shower;a brief period of precipitation. 'the game was interrupted by a brief shower'
foolery;foolish or senseless behavior
celiocentesis;removal of fluid from the abdomen by centesis
expostulation;an expression of opposition to a course of action
rehearsal;a practice session in preparation for a public performance of a play or speech or concert
charge;attention and management implying responsibility for safety. 'he is under the care of a physician'
fosterage;raising someone to be an accepted member of the community. 'they debated whether nature or nurture was more important'
family planning;limiting the number of children born
punk rock;rock music with deliberately offensive lyrics expressing anger and social alienation
coitus interruptus;a contraceptive method in which coitus is initiated but the penis is deliberately withdrawn before ejaculation
sclerotomy;surgical incision of the sclerotic coat of the eye
armed combat;an engagement fought between two military forces
military control;the control of a country by military forces of a foreign power
carting;the work of carting
reply;the speech act of continuing a conversational exchange. 'he growled his reply'
battle of valmy;the french defeated the austrian and prussian troops in 1792 (with a famous cannonade from the french artillery)
requirement;something that is required in advance. 'latin was a prerequisite for admission'
bicker;petty quarrel
shower bath;washing yourself in a shower. you stand upright under water sprayed from a nozzle. 'he took a shower after the game'
tankage;the act of storing in tanks
limited war;a war whose objective is less than the unconditional defeat of the enemy
medical aid;professional treatment for illness or injury
cliffhanger;an episode that ends in suspense
computed tomography;a method of examining body organs by scanning them with x rays and using a computer to construct an image
sequestration;seizing property that belongs to someone else and holding it until profits pay the demand for which it was seized
third degree;interrogation accompanied by torture to extort information or a confession
marbles;a children's game played with little balls made of a hard substance (as glass)
voice;a means or agency by which something is expressed or communicated. 'the voice of the law'. 'the times is not the voice of new york'. 'conservatism has many voices'
prosecution;the institution and conduct of legal proceedings against a defendant
contralto;the lowest female singing voice
arranging;the act of arranging a piece of music
testing;an examination of the characteristics of something. 'there are laboratories for commercial testing'. 'it involved testing thousands of children for smallpox'
reception;the act of receiving
subcutaneous injection;an injection under the skin
new jazz;any of various styles of jazz that appeared after 1940
ousting;the act of ejecting someone or forcing them out
computer technology;the activity of designing and constructing and programming computers
screwball;a pitch with reverse spin that curves toward the side of the plate from which it was thrown
mechanical drawing;the craft of drawing blueprints
boost;the act of giving an upward push. 'he gave her a boost over the fence'
pitched battle;a fierce battle fought in close combat between troops in predetermined positions at a chosen time and place
general verdict;an ordinary verdict declaring which party prevails without any special findings of fact
grumble;a complaint uttered in a low and indistinct tone
waltz;a ballroom dance in triple time with a strong accent on the first beat
unction;anointing as part of a religious ceremony or healing ritual
prefrontal leucotomy;surgical interruption of nerve tracts to and from the frontal lobe of the brain
sketch;brief description
bullet;a baseball thrown with maximum velocity. 'he swung late on the fastball'. 'he showed the batters nothing but smoke'
autogenics;training patients in self-induced relaxation
salvation;a means of preserving from harm or unpleasantness. 'tourism was their economic salvation'. 'they turned to individualism as their salvation'
anagrams;a game whose object is to form words from a group of randomly chosen letters
paso doble;a ballroom dance in fast duple time
expression;the communication (in speech or writing) of your beliefs or opinions. 'expressions of good will'. 'he helped me find expression for my ideas'
sighting;the act of observing. 'several sightings of enemy troops were reported'
flirt;playful behavior intended to arouse sexual interest
thawing;warm weather following a freeze. snow and ice melt
neck exercise;exercise designed to strengthen the neck muscles
benefit;a performance to raise money for a charitable cause
co optation;the selection of a new member (usually by a vote of the existing membership)
beleaguering;the action of an armed force that surrounds a fortified place and isolates it while continuing to attack
brush;a light glancing touch. 'there was a brief kiss of their hands in passing'
language teaching;teaching people to speak and understand a foreign language
deal;(card game) the act of distributing playing cards. 'the deal was passed around the table clockwise'
jiujitsu;a method of self-defense without weapons that was developed in china and japan. holds and blows are supplemented by clever use of the attacker's own weight and strength
impulse;the act of applying force suddenly. 'the impulse knocked him over'
barter;an equal exchange. 'we had no money so we hd to live by barter'
stumping;campaigning for something by making political speeches (stump speeches)
casting;the act of throwing a fishing line out over the water by means of a rod and reel
nephrectomy;surgical removal of a kidney
tracing;the act of drawing a plan or diagram or outline
expropriation;depriving an owner of property by taking it for public use
inunction;anointing as part of a religious ceremony or healing ritual
ceremonial dance;a dance that is part of a religious ritual
balkan wars;wars between turkey and greece-serbia-bulgaria and later between turkey and montenegro. 1912-1914
final;an examination administered at the end of an academic term
alliance;the act of forming an alliance or confederation
comparison;examining resemblances or differences
touch;the act of putting two things together with no space between them. 'at his touch the room filled with lights'
banking game;any gambling game in which bets are laid against the gambling house or the dealer
violence;an act of aggression (as one against a person who resists). 'he may accomplish by craft in the long run what he cannot do by force and violence in the short one'
defense secretary;the position of the head of the department of defense. 'the position of defense secretary was created in 1947'
stadium jumping;riding horses in competitions over set courses to demonstrate skill in jumping over obstacles
lawmaking;the act of legislating
asking;the verbal act of requesting
commitment;the official act of consigning a person to a prison (or mental hospital)
nationalisation;changing something from private to state ownership or control
overcapitalization;too much capitalization (more than the business warrants)
affusion;the act of baptizing someone by pouring water on their head
defence;military action or resources protecting a country against potential enemies. 'they died in the defense of stalingrad'. 'they were developed for the defense program'
presentation;the act of presenting something. 'he gave the customer a demonstration'
bosom;a close affectionate and protective acceptance. 'his willing embrace of new ideas'. 'in the bosom of the family'
fusion;correction of an unstable part of the spine by joining two or more vertebrae. usually done surgically but sometimes done by traction or immobilization
information gathering;the act of collecting information
besieging;the action of an armed force that surrounds a fortified place and isolates it while continuing to attack
vespers;a late afternoon or evening worship service
view;the act of looking or seeing or observing. 'he tried to get a better view of it'. 'his survey of the battlefield was limited'
butchery;the business of a butcher
rub;the act of rubbing or wiping. 'he gave the hood a quick rub'
expedition;a military campaign designed to achieve a specific objective in a foreign country
anticyclone;(meteorology) winds spiraling outward from a high-pressure center. circling clockwise in the northern hemisphere and counter-clockwise in the southern
introduction;formally making a person known to another or to the public
lumpectomy;surgical removal of a tumor without removing much of the surrounding tissue or lymph nodes. performed in some cases of breast cancer
first crusade;a crusade from 1096 to 1099. captured jerusalem and created a theocracy there
seven years;a war of england and prussia against france and austria (1756-1763). britain and prussia got the better of it
nestle;a close and affectionate (and often prolonged) embrace
expectoration;the act of spitting (forcefully expelling saliva)
dramatic art;the art of writing and producing plays
leg exercise;exercise designed to strengthen the leg muscles
dab;a light touch or stroke
symbol worship;worship of symbols
leveling;changing the ground level to a smooth horizontal or gently sloping surface
leaning;the act deviating from a vertical position
test case;a representative legal action whose outcome is likely to become a precedent
celestial navigation;navigating according to the positions of the stars
brush;the act of brushing your hair. 'he gave his hair a quick brush'
motion study;an analysis of a specific job in an effort to find the most efficient method in terms of time and effort
communicating;the activity of communicating
intonation;the act of singing in a monotonous tone
jostle;the act of jostling (forcing your way by pushing)
legal action;a judicial proceeding brought by one party against another. one party prosecutes another for a wrong done or for protection of a right or for prevention of a wrong
demurrer;(law) a formal objection to an opponent's pleadings
pantomime;a performance using gestures and body movements without words
metrical foot;a group of 2 or 3 syllables forming the basic unit of poetic rhythm
pm;an examination and dissection of a dead body to determine cause of death or the changes produced by disease
editorship;the position of editor
hallelujah;a shout or song of praise to god
talk;a speech that is open to the public. 'he attended a lecture on telecommunications'
tickling;the act of tickling
looking at;the act of directing the eyes toward something and perceiving it visually. 'he went out to have a look'. 'his look was fixed on her eyes'. 'he gave it a good looking at'. 'his camera does his looking for him'
touch;the act of soliciting money (as a gift or loan). 'he watched the beggar trying to make a touch'
yodeling;singing by changing back and forth between the chest voice and a falsetto
estimate;a judgment of the qualities of something or somebody. 'many factors are involved in any estimate of human life'. 'in my estimation the boy is innocent'
derring do;brave and heroic deeds
disputation;the formal presentation of and opposition to a stated proposition (usually followed by a vote)
election;the act of selecting someone. 'many candidates ran for election'
hunt;the activity of looking thoroughly in order to find something or someone
legislation;the act of legislating
heliolatry;worship of the sun
documentation;documentary validation. 'his documentation of the results was excellent'. 'the strongest support for this this view is the work of jones'
radiography;photography that uses other kinds of radiation than visible light
clyster;injection of a liquid through the anus to stimulate evacuation. sometimes used for diagnostic purposes
subscription;a pledged contribution
test;any standardized procedure for measuring sensitivity or memory or intelligence or aptitude etc. 'the test was standardized on a large sample of students'
 second world war;a war between the allies (australia belgium bolivia brazil canada china colombia costa-rico cuba czechoslovakia dominican-republic el-salvador ethiopia greece guatemala haiti honduras india iran iraq luxembourg mexico netherlands new-zealand nicaragua norway panama philippines poland south-africa united-kingdom us ussr yugoslavia) and the axis (albania bulgaria finland germany hungary italy japan rumania slovakia thailand) from 1939 to 1945
disentanglement;the act of releasing by untangling or unsnarling something
going;act of departing
leaping;a light springing movement upwards or forwards
one step;an early ballroom dance. precursor to the fox-trot
takeoff;humorous or satirical mimicry
blast;a long and hard-hit fly ball
engagement;the act of giving someone a job
brainwashing;forcible indoctrination into a new set of attitudes and beliefs
check;the act of restraining power or action or limiting excess. 'his common sense is a bridle to his quick temper'
interrogation;formal systematic questioning
courtesy;a courteous or respectful or considerate act
draw poker;poker in which a player can discard cards and receive substitutes from the dealer. 'he played only draw and stud'
comment;a report (often malicious) about the doings of other people. 'the divorce caused much gossip'
apportionment;the act of distributing by allotting or apportioning. 'the apportionment of seats in the house of representatives is based on the relative populaton of each state'
self gratification;the act of satisfying your own desires and giving yourself pleasure
overrun;too much production or more than expected
banzai charge;a mass attack of troops without concern for casualties. originated by japanese who accompanied it with yells of 'banzai'
resistance;group action in opposition to those in power
instilling;teaching or impressing upon the mind by frequent instruction or repetition
business;incidental activity performed by an actor for dramatic effect. 'his business with the cane was hilarious'
greenmail;paying the raider to give up a takeover attempt (as by an extravagant buyback of the stock they hold in your corporation)
leading astray;the act of enticing others into sinful ways
gratification;the act or an instance of gratifying or satisfying
restoration;the re-establishment of the british monarchy in 1660
snatch;the act of catching an object with the hands. 'mays made the catch with his back to the plate'
overturn;an improbable and unexpected victory. 'the biggest upset since david beat goliath'
reasonable care;the care that a reasonable man would exercise under the circumstances. the standard for determining legal duty
battle of ypres;battle in world war i (1914). heavy but indecisive fighting as the allies and the germans both tried to break through the lines of the others
painting;the occupation of a house painter. 'house painting was the only craft he knew'
elbow grease;use of physical or mental energy. hard work. 'he got an a for effort'. 'they managed only with great exertion'
senatorship;the office of senator
praise;offering words of homage as an act of worship. 'they sang a hymn of praise to god'
animated cartoon;a film made by photographing a series of cartoon drawings to give the illusion of movement when projected in rapid sequence
strife;bitter conflict. heated often violent dissension
commissioning;the act of granting authority to undertake certain functions
preventive;something that prevents or slows the course of an illness or disease. 'the docotr recommended several preventatives'
battledore and shuttlecock;an ancient racket game
probe;an investigation conducted using a probe instrument
dominoes;any of several games played with small rectangular blocks
lighting;the craft of providing artificial light. 'an interior decorator must understand lighting'
conga;a latin american dance of 3 steps and a kick by people in single file
importation;the commercial activity of buying and bringing in goods from a foreign country
lining;providing something with a surface of a different material
actium;naval battle where antony and cleopatra were defeated by octavian's fleet under agrippa in 31 bc
leveraging;investing with borrowed money as a way to amplify potential gains (at the risk of greater losses)
bout;a boxing match. 'the fight was on television last night'
crusade;any of the more or less continuous military expeditions in the 11-13th centuries when christian powers of europe tried to recapture the holy land from the muslims
computerized axial tomography;a method of examining body organs by scanning them with x rays and using a computer to construct an image
shellfire;shooting artillery shells
prolusion;exercising in preparation for strenuous activity
swop;an equal exchange. 'we had no money so we hd to live by barter'
rough water;used of the sea
hassle;disorderly fighting
ecclesiasticism;excessive adherence to ecclesiastical forms and activities. 'their ecclesiasticism overwhelmed their religion'
swallow dive;a dive in which the diver arches the back with arms outstretched before entering the water
close support;close-in firing by one unit against an enemy engaged by another unit
mri;the use of nuclear magnetic resonance of protons to produce proton density images
homily;a sermon on a moral or religious topic
golfing;playing golf
retention;the act of keeping in your possession
assignment;the act of distributing something to designated places or persons. 'the first task is the assignment of an address to each datum'
feature;the principal (full-length) film in a program at a movie theater. 'the feature tonight is 'casablanca''
burping;a reflex that expels wind noisily from the stomach through the mouth
glorification;the act of glorifying (as in worship). 'the glorification of god'
survey;the act of looking or seeing or observing. 'he tried to get a better view of it'. 'his survey of the battlefield was limited'
jacks;a game in which jackstones are thrown and picked up in various groups between bounces of a small rubber ball
getting even;a reciprocal group action. 'in return we gave them as good as we got'
walk;careers in general. 'it happens in all walks of life'
call fire;fire delivered on a specific target in response to a request from the supported unit
preparation;the activity of preparing
base on balls;(baseball) an advance to first base by a batter who receives four balls. 'he worked the picher for a base on balls'
ingress;the act of entering. 'she made a grand entrance'
ski jumping;the act of performing a jump of skis from a high ramp overhanging a snow covered slope
tall order;a formidable task or requirement. 'finishing in time was a tall order but we did it'
firing;the act of discharging a gun
untangling;the act of releasing by untangling or unsnarling something
second fiddle;a secondary role or function. 'he hated to play second fiddle to anyone'
amphibious assault;an amphibious operation attacking a land base that is carried out by troops that are landed by naval ships
spin the platter;a game in which something round (as a plate) is spun on edge and the name of a player is called. the named player must catch the spinning object before it falls or pay a forfeit
autopsy;an examination and dissection of a dead body to determine cause of death or the changes produced by disease
insubordination;an insubordinate act
camel racing;the sport of racing camels
guard duty;the duty of serving as a sentry. 'he was on guard that night'
professional golf;playing golf for money
eluding;the act of avoiding capture (especially by cunning)
fortification;the act of fortifying or strengthening defenses
massage;kneading and rubbing parts of the body to increase circulation and promote relaxation
fabrication;the act of making something (a product) from raw materials
jackstraws;a game in which players try to pick each jackstraw (or spillikin) off of a pile without moving any of the others
relief;aid for the aged or indigent or handicapped. 'he has been on relief for many years'
acidimetry;measuring the strength of acid in a solution
current intelligence;intelligence of all types and forms of immediate interest. usually disseminated without delays for evaluation or interpretation
crunch;the act of crushing
pulverization;the act of grinding
respect;behavior intended to please your parents. 'their children were never very strong on obedience'. 'he went to law school out of respect for his father's wishes'
murmur;a complaint uttered in a low and indistinct tone
puppet show;a show in which the actors are puppets
labor secretary;the position of the head of the department of labor. 'the post of labor secretary was created in 1913'
campaigning;the campaign of a candidate to be elected
cranberry culture;the cultivation of cranberries
imprecation;a curse that invokes evil (and usually serves as an insult). 'he suffered the imprecations of the mob'
pressure;the act of pressing. 'he gave the button a press'. 'he used pressure to stop the bleeding'
bathymetry;measuring the depths of the oceans
confinement;restraint of a person's liberty
marathon;a battle in 490 bc in which the athenians and their allies defeated the persians
miniature golf;a novelty version of golf played with golf balls and putters on a miniature course featuring many obstacles
security intelligence;intelligence on the identity and capability and intentions of hostile individuals or organizations that may be engaged in espionage or sabotage or subversion or terrorism
oblation;the act of contributing to the funds of a church or charity. 'oblations for aid to the poor'
second;a speech seconding a motion. 'do i hear a second?'
landscaping;working as a landscape gardner
keeping;the act of keeping in your possession
concord;agreement of opinions
court game;an athletic game played on a court
conflict;a disagreement or argument about something important. 'he had a dispute with his wife'. 'there were irreconcilable differences'. 'the familiar conflict between republicans and democrats'
gymnastics;a sport that involves exercises intended to display strength and balance and agility
gravimetric analysis;quantitative analysis by weight
battle of the marne;a world war i battle in nw france where the allies defeated the germans in 1918
riot control;the measures taken to control a riot
assessment;the act of judging or assessing. 'they criticized my judgment of the contestants'
accompaniment;the act of accompanying someone or something in order to protect them
contretemps;an awkward clash. 'he tried to smooth over his contretemps with the policeman'
prohibition;refusal to approve or assent to
serialization;publication in serial form
eructation;a reflex that expels wind noisily from the stomach through the mouth
preventive medicine;the branch of medicine concerned with preventing disease
president of the united states;the office of the us head of state. 'a president is elected every four years'
line squall;a squall advancing along a front that forms a definite line
agrypnia;a vigil before certain feasts (as e.g. easter)
drag;the act of dragging (pulling with force). 'the drag up the hill exhausted him'
barrage;the heavy fire of artillery to saturate an area rather than hit a specific target. 'they laid down a barrage in front of the advancing troops'
exercising;the activity of exerting you muscles in various was to keep fit. 'the doctor recommended regular exercise'. 'he did some exercising'. 'the physical exertion required by his work kept him fit'
risking;the act of gambling. 'he did it on a bet'
x raying;obtaining images by the use of x rays
defrayal;the act of paying money
scalage;the act of scaling in weight or quantity or dimension
riposte;a reply to a question or remark (especially a witty or critical one). 'it brought a sharp rejoinder from the teacher'
pauperization;the act of making poor
thrombectomy;surgical removal of a blood clot (thrombus) from a blood vessel
command prompt;(computer science) a symbol that appears on the computer screen to indicate that the computer is ready to receive a command
turnround;act or process of unloading and loading and servicing a vessel or aircraft for a return trip
light air;wind moving 1-3 knots. 1 on the beaufort scale
homework;preparatory school work done outside school (especially at home)
whiff;a short light gust of air
exaction;act of demanding or levying by by force or authority: 'exaction of tribute'. 'exaction of various dues and fees'
retaliatory eviction;an eviction in reprisal for the tenant's good-faith complaints against the landlord. illegal in many states
clawback;(british) finding a way to take money back from people that they were given in another way. 'the treasury will find some clawback for the extra benefits members received'
peasant s revolt;(english history) a widespread rebellion in 1381 against poll taxes and other inequities that oppressed the poorer people of england. suppressed by richard ii
grind;hard monotonous routine work
excision;surgical removal of a body part or tissue
juggle;the act of rearranging things to give a misleading impression
hypermedia system;a multimedia system in which related items of information are connected and can be presented together
stage dancing;artistic dancing
cast;the act of throwing dice
blockade;a war measure that isolates some area of importance to the enemy
bell ringing;playing a set of bells that are (usually) hung in a tower
alms giving;voluntary contributions to aid the poor
archery;the sport of shooting arrows with a bow
carnival;a festival marked by merrymaking and processions
redemption;purchasing back something previously sold
block grant;a grant of federal money to state and local governments to support social welfare programs. 'block grants reduce federal responsibility for social welfare'
minuet;a stately court dance in the 17th century
occupation;the act of occupying or taking possession of a building. 'occupation of a building without a certificate of occupancy is illegal'
observed fire;fire for which the point of impact (the burst) can be seen by an observer. fire can be adjusted on the basis of the observations
pogey;(great britain) money received from the state
professional boxing;boxing for money
educational activity;activities that impart knowledge. 'he received no formal education'
implantation;the act of implanting
backdown;a retraction of a previously held position
atlanta;federal troops under sherman cut off the railroads supplying atlanta and burned the city. 1864
retrieval;the act of regaining or saving something lost (or in danger of becoming lost)
court tennis;an ancient form of tennis played in a four-walled court
euchre;a card game similar to ecarte. each player is dealt 5 cards and the player making trump must take 3 tricks to win a hand
spot jamming;electronic jamming of a specific channel or frequency
pressing;the act of pressing. 'he gave the button a press'. 'he used pressure to stop the bleeding'
appointment;(law) the act of disposing of property by virtue of the power of appointment. 'she allocated part of the trust to her church by appointment'
gamble;a risky act or venture
defence;protection from harm. 'sanitation is the best defense against disease'
instigation;deliberate and intentional triggering (of trouble or discord)
stylization;the act of stylizing. causing to conform to a particular style
beggary;a solicitation for money or food (especially in the street by an apparently penniless person)
flight;the act of escaping physically. 'he made his escape from the mental hospital'. 'the canary escaped from its cage'. 'his flight was an indication of his guilt'
stealth;avoiding detection by moving carefully
aegis;kindly endorsement and guidance. 'the tournament was held under the auspices of the city council'
behest;an authoritative command or request
devotion;religious zeal. willingness to serve god
public relations campaign;an advertising campaign intended to improve public relations
deanship;the position or office of a dean
confirmation;a ceremony held in the synagogue (usually at pentecost) to admit as adult members of the jewish community young men and women who have successfully completed a course of study in judaism
lick;touching with the tongue
warm up;exercising in preparation for strenuous activity
submarine ball;a pitch thrown sidearm instead of overhead
forgoing;the act of renouncing
acceptance;the act of accepting with approval. favorable reception. 'its adoption by society'. 'the proposal found wide acceptance'
fire worship;worship of fire
rag;(british) a boisterous practical joke (especially by college students)
extravagance;excessive spending
sideshow;a minor show that is part of a larger one (as at the circus)
vapour bath;you sweat in a steam room before getting a rubdown and cold shower
trade;the business given to a commercial establishment by its customers: 'even before noon there was a considerable patronage'
rejection;the speech act of rejecting
imperative;some duty that is essential and urgent
daring;a challenge to do something dangerous or foolhardy. 'he could never refuse a dare'
skiing;a sport in which participants must travel on skis
arteriography;roentgenographic examination of arteries
objectification;representing as an object
north wind;a wind from the north
rock music;a type of dance music originating in the 1950s. a blend of rhythm-and-blues with country-and-western
upbringing;raising someone to be an accepted member of the community. 'they debated whether nature or nurture was more important'
sexual climax;the moment of most intense pleasure in sexual intercourse
pulling;the act of pulling. applying force to move something toward or with you. 'the pull up the hill had him breathing harder'. 'his strenuous pulling strained his back'
soubrette;a minor female role as a pert flirtatious lady's maid in a comedy
exception;grounds for adverse criticism. 'his authority is beyond exception'
duet;a dance for two people (usually a ballerina and a danseur noble)
wager;the act of gambling. 'he did it on a bet'
bailment;the delivery of personal property in trust by the bailor to the bailee
telemarketing;the use of the telephone as an interactive medium for promotion
jejunostomy;surgical creation of an opening between the jejunum and the anterior abdominal wall. will allow artificial feeding
saber rattling;the ostentatious display of military power (with the implied threat that it might be used)
defection;withdrawing support or help despite allegiance or responsibility. 'his abandonment of his wife and children left them penniless'
motorization;the act of motorizing (equiping with motors or with motor vehicles)
battle of sempatch;the swiss confederation escaped hapsburg domination by their victory in 1386
selective service;compulsory military service
battle of wake;in december 1941 the island was captured by the japanese after a gallant last-ditch stand by a few hundred us marines
technology;the practical application of science to commerce or industry
preoccupancy;the act of taking occupancy before someone else does
persuasion;the act of persuading (or attempting to persuade)
appendicectomy;surgical removal of the vermiform appendix
national assistance;(great britain) benefits paid to bring incomes up to minimum levels established by law
battle of lutzen;a battle in the thirty years' war (1632). swedes under king gustavus adolphus defeated the imperialists under wallenstein. adolphus was killed
raree show;a street show
social dancing;dancing as part of a social occasion
chalons sur marne;the battle in which attila the hun was defeated by the romans and visigoths in 451
capture;the act of forcibly dispossessing an owner of property
cover up;an attempt to prevent something embarrassing from becoming public
whole gale;wind moving 55-63 knots. 10 on the beaufort scale
four card monte;a gambling card game of spanish origin. 3 or 4 cards are dealt face up and players bet that one of the will be matched before the others as the cards are dealt from the pack one at a time
shooting;the act of firing a projectile. 'his shooting was slow but accurate'
culture;(biology) the growing of microorganisms in a nutrient medium (such as gelatin or agar). 'the culture of cells in a petri dish'
abstinence;act or practice of refraining from indulging an appetite
drudgery;hard monotonous routine work
television program;a program broadcast by television
purging;the act of clearing yourself (or another) from some stigma or charge
moral obligation;an obligation arising out of considerations of right and wrong. 'he did it out of a feeling of moral obligation'
return;a reciprocal group action. 'in return we gave them as good as we got'
no hitter;a game in which a pitcher allows the opposing team no hits
bundling;a one-time custom during courtship of unmarried couples occupying the same bed without undressing
bridge;any of various card games based on whist for four players
trick;a cunning or deceitful action or device. 'he played a trick on me'. 'he pulled a fast one and got away with it'
diathermy;a method of physical therapy that involves generating local heat in body tissues by high-frequency electromagnetic currents
sperm count;the act of estimating the number of spermatozoa in an ejaculate
chemotherapy;the use of chemical agents to treat or control disease (or mental illness)
complementary medicine;the practice of medicine without the use of drugs. may involve self-awareness
naval campaign;an operation conducted primarily by naval forces in order to gain or extend or maintain control of the sea
encouragement;the act of giving hope or support to someone
scheduling;setting an order and time for planned events
find;the act of discovering something
operation desert storm;the us and its allies defeated iraq in a ground war that lasted 100 hours (1991)
deference;an courteous expression (by word or deed) of esteem or regard. 'his deference to her wishes was very flattering'. 'be sure to give my respects to the dean'
lawn bowling;a bowling game played on a lawn with wooden balls that are rolled at a jack
feminism;the movement aimed at equal rights for women
invitation;the act of enticing or alluring. 'she was an invitation to trouble'
proportional representation;representation of all parties in proportion to their popular vote
serpent worship;worship of snakes
amortization;payment of an obligation in a series of installments or transfers
devotion;(usually plural) religious observance or prayers (usually spoken silently). 'he returned to his devotions'
distraction;an entertainment that provokes pleased interest and distracts you from worries and vexations
wheedling;the act of urging by means of teasing or flattery
shuffleboard;a game in which players use long sticks to shove wooden disks onto the scoring area marked on a smooth surface
certification;validating the authenticity of something or someone
bidding;a request to be present. 'they came at his bidding'
nude dancing;erotic dancing with little or no clothing
gunfire;the act of shooting a gun. 'the gunfire endangered innocent bystanders'. 'they retreated in the face of withering enemy fire'
channels;official routes of communication. 'you have to go through channels'
impetus;the act of applying force suddenly. 'the impulse knocked him over'
volleyball;a game in which two teams hit an inflated ball over a high net using their hands
high jinks;noisy and mischievous merrymaking
spat;petty quarrel
pick;the act of choosing or selecting. 'your choice of colors was unfortunate'. 'you can take your pick'
countermortar fire;mortar fire intended to destroy or neutralize enemy weapons
invocation;a prayer asking god's help as part of a religious service
alto;the highest adult male singing voice
beating;the act of overcoming or outdoing
multimedia system;transmission that combine media of communication (text and graphics and sound etc.)
business;the volume of business activity: 'business is good today'. 'show me where the business was today'
slander;words falsely spoken that damage the reputation of another
open sesame;any very successful means of achieving a result
direction;the act of managing something. 'he was given overall management of the program'. 'is the direction of the economy a function of government?'
chancellorship;the office of chancellor
song;the act of singing. 'with a shout and a song they marched up to the gates'
conchology;the collection and study of mollusc shells
jumping;the act of jumping. propelling yourself off the ground. 'he advanced in a series of jumps'. 'the jumping was unexpected'
specifying;naming explicitly
communications intelligence;technical and intelligence information derived from foreign communications by other than the intended recipients
salpingectomy;surgical removal of one or both fallopian tubes
cape passero;the spanish navy was destroyed by france and england while attempting to recover sicily and sardinia from italy (1719)
breeding;the production of animals or plants by inbreeding or hybridization
succussion;shaking a person to determine whether a large amount of liquid is present in a body cavity
ducks and drakes;a game in which a flat stone is bounced along the surface of calm water
exculpation;the act of freeing from guilt or blame
expending;the act of spending money for goods or services
dry gulching;the act of killing from ambush
motion picture photography;the act of making a film
traffic control;control of the flow of traffic in a building or a city
cost analysis;breaking down the costs of some operation and reporting on each factor separately
bath;you soak your body in a bathtub. 'he has a good bath every morning'
backgammon;a board game for two players. pieces move according to throws of the dice
gettysburg;a battle of the american civil war (1863). the defeat of robert e. lee's invading confederate army was a major victory for the union
bank;a flight maneuver. aircraft tips laterally about its longitudinal axis (especially in turning)
probation;the act of liberating on probation
judgment;the determination by a court of competent jurisdiction on matters submitted to it
marne river;a world war i battle in nw france where the allies defeated the germans in 1918
classical ballet;a style of ballet based on precise conventional steps performed with graceful and flowing movements
judgement;the act of judging or assessing. 'they criticized my judgment of the contestants'
reading;the act of measuring with meters or similar instruments. 'he has a job meter reading for the gas company'
capitalization;an estimation of the value of a business on the basis of its earnings
touchdown;a score in american football. being in possession of the ball across the opponents' goal line
word;a promise. 'he gave his word'
parade;a visible display. 'she made a parade of her sorrows'
shipment;the act of sending off something
sacrifice;the act of losing or surrendering something as a penalty for a mistake or fault or failure to perform etc.
tango;a ballroom dance of latin-american origin
electrification;the activity of thrilling or markedly exciting some person or group
antitrade wind;winds blowing from west to east and lying above the trade winds in the tropics
squandermania;prodigious squandering (usually by a government)
site visit;visiting in an official capacity to examine a site to determine its suitability for some enterprise
denigration;the act of depreciating
congregating;the act of congregating
psychological warfare;the use of psychological tactics to destroy the opponents' morale
musical;a play or film whose action and dialogue is interspersed with singing and dancing
russian bank;two play solitaire with separate packs
wearing;the act of wearing. 'she bought it for everyday wear'
windiness;a mildly windy state of the air
naturalisation;the proceeding whereby a foreigner is granted citizenship
answer;the speech act of replying to a question
solicitation;the act of enticing a person to do something wrong (as an offer of sex in return for money)
veneration;religious zeal. willingness to serve god
rap music;a form of vocal music in which rhyming lyrics are chanted to a musical accompaniment
sackcloth and ashes;a display of extreme remorse or repentance or grief
shampoo;the act of washing your hair with shampoo
work stoppage;a group's refusal to work in protest against low pay or bad work conditions. 'the strike lasted more than a month before it was settled'
unsnarling;the act of releasing by untangling or unsnarling something
paying;the act of paying money
falsifying;the act of determining that something is false
depredation;an act of plundering
execration;an appeal to some supernatural power to inflict evil on someone or some group
electrocution;execution by electricity
doctor;children take the roles of doctor or patient or nurse and pretend they are at the doctor's office. 'the children explored each other's bodies by playing the game of doctor'
ordering;putting in order. 'there were mistakes in the ordering of items on the list'
nay;a negative. 'the nays have it'
bookkeeping;the activity of recording business transactions
haying;the harvesting of hay
bronchospasm;a spasm of the bronchi that makes exhalation difficult and noisy. associated with asthma and bronchitis
bacchanalia;a wild gathering involving excessive drinking and promiscuity
vote;the opinion of a group as determined by voting. 'they put the question to a vote'
relation;(usually plural) mutual dealings or connections among persons or groups: 'international relations'
shower;washing yourself in a shower. you stand upright under water sprayed from a nozzle. 'he took a shower after the game'
contrivance;the act of devising something
bowling;the act of delivering a cricket ball to the batsman
activation;the activity of causing to have energy and be active
athletic game;a game involving athletic activity
war secretary;head of a former executive department. combined with the navy secretary to form the defense secretary in 1947
charades;player acts out a phrase for others to guess
condordance;agreement of opinions
gun;the discharge of a gun as signal or as a salute in military ceremonies. 'a twenty gun salute'
hand;physical assistance. 'give me a hand with the chores'
cover;fire that makes it difficult for the enemy to fire on your own individuals or formations. 'artillery provided covering fire for the withdrawal'
programme;a performance (or series of performances) at a public presentation. 'the program lasted more than two hours'
professional football;playing football for money
litany;any long and tedious address or recital. 'the patient recited a litany of complaints'
pullout;to break off a military action with an enemy
glimpse;a quick look
estimation;a judgment of the qualities of something or somebody. 'many factors are involved in any estimate of human life'. 'in my estimation the boy is innocent'
audiometry;measuring sensitivity of hearing
agreement;the verbal act of agreeing
battle of saratoga;a battle during the american revolutionary war (1777). the british under burgoyne were defeated
music;a musical diversion. 'his music was his central interest'
piquet;a card game for two players using a reduced pack of 32 cards
cha cha;a modern ballroom dance from latin america. small steps and swaying movements of the hips
stalking;a hunt for game carried on by stalking or waiting in ambush
battle of plataea;a defeat of the persian army by the greeks in 479 bc
normalisation;the imposition of a standard
deep kiss;an open-mouthed kiss in which your tongue is inserted into the other's mouth
el alamein;in world war ii (1942). a decisive allied victory over german troops under rommel
choice;the act of choosing or selecting. 'your choice of colors was unfortunate'. 'you can take your pick'
casting lots;making a chance decision by using lots (straws or pebbles etc.) that are thrown or drawn
printing;the business of printing
itemization;the act of making a list of items
laughter;the act of laughing. the manifestation of joy or mirth of scorn. 'he enjoyed the laughter of the crowd'
nose job;cosmetic surgery to improve the appearance of your nose
conclusion;the act of making up your mind about something. 'the burden of decision was his'. 'he drew his conclusions quickly'
rotogravure;using photography to produce a plate for printing
bull run;two battles during the american civil war (1861 and 1862). confederate forces defeated in federal army in both battles
chess game;a game for two players who move their 16 pieces according to specific rules. the object is to checkmate the opponent's king
surrender;a verbal act of admitting defeat
secretary of education;the position of the head of the education department. 'the post of education secretary was created in 1979'
electromagnetic intrusion;the deliberate insertion of electromagnetic energy into transmission paths with the objective of confusing or deceiving operators
fair ball;(in baseball) a ball struck with the bat so that it stays between the foul lines on the playing field
brunanburh;battle in 937 when athelstan defeated the scots. recounted in the ballad of the battle of brunanburh in the anglo-saxon chronicles
the doldrums;a belt of calms and light winds between the northern and southern trade winds of the atlantic and pacific
difference of opinion;a disagreement or argument about something important. 'he had a dispute with his wife'. 'there were irreconcilable differences'. 'the familiar conflict between republicans and democrats'
surrender;the delivery of a principal into lawful custody
joinery;the draft of a joiner
voting;a choice that is made by voting. 'there were only 17 votes in favor of the motion'
litigation;a judicial proceeding
surveying;the practice of measuring angles and distances on the ground so that they can be accurately plotted on a map
jerk;a sudden abrupt pull
plodding;hard monotonous routine work
vomit;the act of ejecting the contents of the stomach through the mouth
launch;the act of propelling with force
break;an escape from jail. 'the breakout was carefully planned'
ransom;payment for the release of someone
meld;a form of rummy using two decks and four jokers. jokers and deuces are wild. the object is to meld groups of seven of the same rank
gun control;efforts to regulate or control sales of guns
dieting;the act of restricting your food intake (or your intake of particular foods)
poker;any of various card games in which players bet that they hold the highest-ranking hand
contredanse;a type of folk dance in which couples are arranged in sets or face one another in a line
lule burgas;the principal battle of the balkan wars (1912). bulgarian forces defeated the turks
vulvectomy;surgical removal of part or all of the vulva
recounting;an act of narration. 'he was the hero according to his own relation'. 'his endless recounting of the incident eventually became unbearable'
sempatch;the swiss confederation escaped hapsburg domination by their victory in 1386
impromptu;an extemporaneous speech or remark. 'a witty impromptu must not sound premeditated'
boasting;speaking of yourself in superlatives
immigration;migration out of a place
counter sabotage;counterintelligence designed to detect and counteract sabotage
evasion;the act of physically escaping from something (an opponent or a pursuer or an unpleasant situation) by some adroit maneuver
press;a weightlift in which the barbell is lifted to shoulder height and then smoothly lifted overhead
concurrence;acting together as of agents or circumstances or events
ground attack;an attack by ground troops
vocalizing;the act of singing vocal music
half gainer;a dive in which the diver throws the feet forward and up to complete a half backward somersault and enters the water facing the diving board
rape;the act of despoiling a country in warfare
embolectomy;surgical removal of an embolus (usually from an artery)
prison breaking;an escape from jail. 'the breakout was carefully planned'
orientation course;a course introducing a new situation or environment
encounter;a minor short-term fight
professorship;the position of professor
abidance;acting according to certain accepted standards
nonacceptance;the act of refusing an offer. 'the turndown was polite but very firm'
designation;the act of putting a person into a non-elective position. 'the appointment had to be approvied by the whole committee'
touch;a communicative interaction. 'the pilot made contact with the base'. 'he got in touch with his colleagues'
rubber stamp;routine authorization of an action without questions
service;an act of help or assistance. 'he did them a service'
pawning;borrowing and leaving an article as security for repayment of the loan
logistic assessment;a judgment of the logistic support required for some particular military operation
movement;a series of actions advancing a principle or tending toward a particular end. 'he supported populist campaigns'. 'they worked in the cause of world peace'. 'the team was ready for a drive toward the pennant'. 'the movement to end slavery'. 'contributed to the war effort'
mummification;embalmment and drying a dead body and wrapping it as a mummy
skit;a short theatrical episode
battle of zama;the battle in 202 bc in which scipio decisively defeated hannibal at the end of the second punic war
offertory;the part of the eucharist when bread and wine are offered to god
go;(japanese) a board game for two players who place counters on a grid. the object is to surround and so capture the opponent's counters
douche;irrigation with a jet of water or medicated solution into or around a body part (especially the vagina) to treat infections or cleanse from odorous contents
specific performance;the performance of a legal contract as specified by its terms
recitation;a public instance of reciting or repeating something prepared. 'the program included songs and recitations of well-loved poems'
road construction;the construction of roads
fomentation;deliberate and intentional triggering (of trouble or discord)
market gardening;the growing of vegetables or flowers for market
boring;the act of drilling a hole in the earth in the hope of producing petroleum
patronage;the act of providing approval and support. 'his vigorous backing of the conservatives got him in trouble with progressives'
film;a form of entertainment that enacts a story by a sequence of images giving the illusion of continuous movement. 'they went to a movie every saturday night'. 'the film was shot on location'
destruction fire;fire delivered for the sole purpose of destroying material objects
wake;a vigil held over a corpse the night before burial. 'there's no weeping at an irish wake'
doubles;tennis played with two players on each side
autoplasty;surgical repair by using tissue from another part of the patient's own body
child s play;play by children that is guided more by imagination than by fixed rules. 'freud believed in the utility of play to a small child'
program;a radio or television show. 'did you see his program last night?'
operation;an act or process or manner of functioning or operating: 'the power of its engine determines its operation': 'the plane's performance in high winds'
impersonation;imitating the mannerisms of another person
scissors;a wrestling_hold in which you wrap your legs around the opponents body and put your feet together and squeeze
class;education imparted in a series of lessons or class meetings. 'he took a course in basket weaving'. 'flirting is not unknown in college classes'
monitoring;the act of observing something (and sometimes keeping a record of it). 'monitoring communications plays an important role in war times'
mammothermography;a diagnostic procedure to detect breast tumors by the use of infrared sensors that detect warm and cold areas
coming together;the social act of assembling for some common purpose. 'his meeting with the salesmen was the high point of his day'
conformity;concurrence of opinion. 'we are in accord with your proposal'
three base hit;a base hit at which the batter stops safely at third base
dunkerque;in world war ii (1940) 330,000 allied troops had to be evacuated from the beaches at dunkirk in a desperate retreat under enemy fire
bloodsport;sport that involves killing animals (especially hunting)
ploughing;tilling the land with a plow. 'he hired someone to do the plowing for him'
tenor voice;the adult male singing voice above baritone
trouble;an angry disturbance. 'he didn't want to make a fuss'. 'they had labor trouble'. 'a spot of bother'
first aid;emergency care given before regular medical aid can be obtained
unselfishness;acting generously
pushing;the act of applying force in order to move something away. 'he gave the door a hard push'. 'the pushing is good exercise'
lookout;the act of looking out
smacker;a loud kiss
pydna;a major victory by the romans over the macedonians in 168 bc. resulted in the downfall of the ancient macedonian kingdom
catch crop;a quick-growing crop (e.g. lettuce) planted between two regular crops grown in successive seasons or between two rows of crops in the same season
deregulation;the act of freeing from regulation (especially from governmental regulations)
headshot;a shot aimed at a person's head
boost;the act of giving hope or support to someone
unemployment compensation;payment by a us agency to unemployed people
crooning;singing in a soft low tone. 'her crooning soon put the child to sleep'
devaluation;an official lowering of a nation's currency. a decrease in the value of a country's currency relative to that of foreign countries
adenoidectomy;surgical removal of the adenoids. commonly performed along with tonsillectomy
rollback;the act of forcing the enemy to withdraw
mental test;any standardized procedure for measuring sensitivity or memory or intelligence or aptitude etc. 'the test was standardized on a large sample of students'
video game;a game played against a computer
squawk;informal terms for objecting. 'i have a gripe about the service here'
kwajalein;world war ii (january 1944). american forces landed and captured a japanese air base
boast;speaking of yourself in superlatives
downpour;a heavy rain
tree surgery;treatment of damaged or decaying trees
busywork;active work of little value. 'while he was waiting he filled the days with busywork'
modality;a method of therapy that involves physical treatment
administration;the act of administering medication
catechetical instruction;teaching religious principles by questions and answers
siege;the action of an armed force that surrounds a fortified place and isolates it while continuing to attack
summons;an order to appear in person at a given place and time
judicature;the position of judge
widegrip pushup;a pushup with the arms widely separated
covering;the act of concealing the existence of something by obstructing the view of it. 'the cover concealed their guns from enemy aircraft'
play;play by children that is guided more by imagination than by fixed rules. 'freud believed in the utility of play to a small child'
broadside;(naval) the simultaneous firing of all the armament on one side of a warship
hackwork;professional work done according to formula
identification;the act of designating or identifying something
okinawa;a campaign in the closing days of world war ii in the pacific (april-june 1945). in savage close-quarter fighting us marines and regular army troops took the island from the japanese. considered the greatest victory of the pacific campaign for the americans
smelling;the act of perceiving the odor of something
anathema;a formal ecclesiastical curse accompanied by excommunication
mexican war;after disputes over texas lands that were settled by mexicans the us declared war on mexico in 1846 and by treaty in 1848 took texas and california and arizona and new mexico and nevada and utah and part of colorado and paid mexico __15,000,000
planning;the act or process of drawing up plans or layouts for some project or enterprise
tailoring;the occupation of a tailor
religious ceremony;a ceremony having religious meaning
flirting;playful behavior intended to arouse sexual interest
mime;a performance using gestures and body movements without words
double jeopardy;the prosecution of a defendant for an offense for which he has already been tried. prohibited in the fifth amendment to the u.s. constitution
caudine forks;a battle in 321 bc in which the samnites defeated the romans
repulsion;a successful stand
counterinsurgency;actions taken by a government to defeat insurgency
containment;the act of containing. 'the army was charged with the containment of the rebel forces'
dustup;an angry dispute. 'they had a quarrel'. 'they had words'
battle of issus;a battle (333 bc) in which alexander the great defeated the persians under darius iii
education secretary;the position of the head of the education department. 'the post of education secretary was created in 1979'
dog breeding;breeding dogs
american revolution;the revolution of the american colonies against great britain. 1775-1783
flamenco;a style of dancing characteristic of the andalusian gypsies. vigorous and rhythmic with clapping and stamping of feet
heat wave;a period of unusually hot weather
point duty;(british) the control of traffic by a policeman stationed at an intersection
trojan war;(greek mythology) a great war fought between greece and troy. the greeks sailed to troy to recover helen of troy, the beautiful wife of the greek king menelaus who had been abducted by paris. after ten years the greeks (via the trojan horse) achieved final victory and burned troy to the ground. 'the story of the trojan war is told in homer's iliad'
binding;the act of applying a bandage
prime minister;the position of the cabinet minister who is in charge of government affairs
scumble;the application of very thin coat of color over the surface of a picture
volley;rapid simultaneous discharge of firearms. 'our fusillade from the left flank caught them by surprise'
patrol;the activity of going around or through an area at regular intervals for security purposes
rhyme;correspondence in the sounds of two or more lines (esp. final sounds)
missionary work;the organized work of a religious missionary
countermeasure;an action taken to offset another action
preliminary examination;an examination taken by graduate students to determine their fitness to continue
egress;(astronomy) the reappearance of a celestial body after an eclipse
reading;a public instance of reciting or repeating something prepared. 'the program included songs and recitations of well-loved poems'
duster;a pitch thrown deliberately close to the batter
improvisation;a performance given without planning or preparation
formularising;the act of formulation something
fulfilment;the act of consummating something (a desire or promise etc)
mutiny;open rebellion against constituted authority (especially by seamen or soldiers against their officers)
knuckler;a baseball pitch thrown with little speed or spin
generosity;acting generously
incursion;an attack that penetrates into enemy territory
visiting;the activity of making visits. 'visiting with the neighbors filled her afternoons'
strip mining;the mining of ore or coal from an open mine
suppression;the act of suppressing
emersion;the act of emerging
soprano;the highest female voice. the voice of a boy before puberty
pianism;performance by or technique of a pianist. 'a program of pianism'
sheepshearing;festival at the time of sheepshearing
women s lib;the movement aimed at equal rights for women
french revolution;the revolution in france against the bourbons. 1789-1799
review;(law) a judicial reexamination of the proceedings of a court (especially by an appellate court)
countdown;counting backward from an arbitrary number to indicate the time remaining before some event (such as launching a space vehicle)
detoxification;treatment by counteracting toxic properties
boogie woogie;an instrumental version of the blues (especially for piano)
punch up;(british) a fistfight. 'the quarrel ended in a punch-up'
bathe;the act of swimming. 'the englishman said he had a good bathe'
ratification;making something valid by formally ratifying or confirming it. 'the ratification of the treaty'. 'confirmation of the appointment'
bacteriological warfare;the use of harmful bacteria as a weapon
change of pace;a baseball thrown with little velocity when the batter is expecting a fastball
vietnam war;a prolonged war (1954-1975) between the communist armies of north vietnam who were supported by the chinese and the non-communist armies of south vietnam supported by the us
affiliation;the act of becoming formally connected or joined: 'welcomed the affiliation of the research center with the university'
broadcast media;a medium that disseminates via telecommunications
clinch;a tight embrace
absenteeism;habitual absence from work
freeze;fixing (of prices or wages etc) at a particular level: 'a freeze on hiring'
trend setting;the initiating or popularizing of a trend or fashion
waxing;the application of wax to a surface
sentence;a final judgment of guilty in a criminal case and the punishment that is imposed. 'the conviction came as no surprise'
blenheim;the british duke of marlborough and the austrian prince eugene of savoy defeated the french in 1704 during the war of the spanish succession
stepping stone;any means of advancement. 'the job was just a stepping stone on his way to fame and riches'
counterclaim;a claim filed in opposition to another claim in a legal action
looting;plundering during riots or in wartime
track;the act of participating in an athletic competition involving running on a track
gay liberation movement;the movement aimed at liberating homosexuals from legal or social or economic oppression
tutoring;teaching individually pupils (usually hired privately)
jam session;an impromptu jazz concert
vending;selling goods for a living
contraception;birth control by the use of contraceptive devices
sacrament;a formal religious act conferring a specific grace on those who receive it
confrontation;a bold challenge
compliance;happy friendly agreement
impingement;a sharp collision produced by striking or dashing against something
fireman;play in which children take the roles of firemen and pretend to put out a fire
galvanism;the therapeutic application of electricity to the body
dog show;a competitive exhibition of dogs
agriculture;the practice of cultivating the land or raising stock
clean;a weightlift in which the barbell is lifted to shoulder height and then jerked overhead
means test;an inquiry into the financial position of someone applying for financial aid
excoriation;severe censure
examination;the act of examining something closely (as for mistakes)
moralizing;the exposition (often superficially) of a particular moral code
aid;the activity of contributing to the fulfillment of a need or furtherance of an effort or purpose: 'he gave me an assist with the housework'. 'could not walk without assistance'. 'rescue party went to their aid'. 'offered his help in unloading'
buyout;acquisition of a company by purchasing a controlling percentage of its stock
organization;the act of organizing a business or business-related activity. 'he was brought in to supervise the organization of a new department'
councilorship;the position of council member
benison;a spoken blessing
clearance;permission to proceed. 'the plane was given clearance to land'
shootout;a fight involving shooting small arms with the intent to kill or frighten
pulse modulation;modulation that imposes a signal on a train of pulses
enjoyment;act of receiving pleasure from something
examination;the act of testing students or candidates (as by questions)
conserving;the preservation and careful management of the environment and of natural resources
ten strike;a score in tenpins: knocking down all ten with the first ball. 'he finished with three strikes in the tenth frame'
oral exam;an examination conducted by word of mouth
record;the best performance ever attained in a sport. 'he broke the olympic record'
endowment;the act of endowing with a permanent source of income. 'his generous endowment of the laboratory came just in the nick of time'
rummage;a thorough search for something (often causing disorder or confusion). 'he gave the attic a good rummage but couldn't find his skis'
resale;the selling of something purchased
self abnegation;renunciation of your own interests in favor of the interests of others
rearrangement;changing an arrangement
undertaking;any piece of work
regimentation;the imposition of order or discipline
disobedience;the failure to obey
bill;the entertainment offered at a public presentation
simoon;a violent hot sand-laden wind on the deserts of arabia and north africa
aerobics;exercise that increases the need for oxygen
binge;an occasion for heavy drinking. 'they went on a bust that lasted three days'
simulated military operation;a military training exercise
way;how a result is obtained or an end is achieved. 'a means of communcation'. 'an example is the best agency of instruction'. 'the true way to success'
square dancing;american country dancing in which couples form squares
masterpiece;an outstanding achievement
skull session;teaching strategy to an athletic team
makin;battles in world war ii in the pacific (november 1943). us marines took the islands from the japanese after bitter fighting
representation;the act of representing. standing in for someone or some group
piaffe;a cadenced trot executed by the horse in one spot
delegating;authorizing subordinates to make certain decisions
nepotism;favoritism shown to relatives or close friends by those in power (as by giving them jobs)
worship of saints;worship of saints
pavane;a stately court dance of the 16th and 17th centuries
third crusade;a crusade from 1189 to 1192 led by richard i of england and the king of france that failed because an army torn by dissensions and fighting on foreign soil could not succeed against forces united by religious zeal
conquest;success in mastering something difficult. 'the conquest of space'
artistic creation;the creation of beautiful or significant things. 'he was a patron of art'
analogy;drawing a comparison in order to show a similarity in some respect. 'the models show by analogy how matter is built up'
going over;a careful and thorough inspection
self denial;renunciation of your own interests in favor of the interests of others
news program;a program devoted to news. 'we watch the 7 o'clock news every night'
fight;a hostile meeting of opposing military forces in the course of a war. 'grant won a decisive victory in the battle of chickamauga'. 'he lost his romantic ideas about war when he got into a real engagement'
financial aid;assistance given in the form of money
transplant;an operation moving an organ from one person (the donor) to another (the recipient)
amphibious operation;a military operation by both land and sea forces
interpretative dancing;a form of modern dance in which the dancer's movements depict an emotion or tell a story
decal;the art of transfering designs from specially prepared paper to a wood or glass or metal surface
tear;an occasion for heavy drinking. 'they went on a bust that lasted three days'
holding;the act of keeping in your possession
falsification;the act of determining that something is false
downdraft;a strong downward air current
splenectomy;surgical removal of the spleen
professional life;a career in industrial or commercial or professional activities
yielding;a verbal act of admitting defeat
valedictory;a farewell oration delivered by the most outstanding member of a graduating class
lying in wait;the act of concealing yourself and lying in wait to attack by surprise
reassurance;the act of reassuring. restoring someone's confidence
belly dancing;a middle eastern dance in which the dancer makes sensuous movements of the hips and abdomen
go slow;(british) a form of protest by workers in which they deliberately slow down in order to cause problem from their employers
sentimentalization;the act of indulging in sentiment
manual labor;labor done with the hands
sniff;sensing an odor by inhaling through the nose
land;working the land as an occupation or way of life. 'farming is a strenuous life'. 'there's no work on the land any more'
jena;the battle in 1806 in which napoleon decisively defeated the prussians
offering;the verbal act of offering. 'a generous offer of assitance'
storage;the act of storing something
essential condition;a prerequisite
legislatorship;the office of legislator
non prosequitur;a judgment entered in favor of the defendant when the plaintiff has not continued his action
thirty years;a series of conflicts (1618-1648) starting between german protestants and catholics and spreading until france and denmark and sweden were opposing the holy roman empire and spain
bw;the use of bacteria or viruses of toxins to destroy men and animals or food
minor role;a small role
aerophilately;the collection and study of airmail stamps
set to;a brief but vigorous fight
research;systematic investigation to establish facts
water conservation;the conservation of water resources
precedence;the act of preceding
antitrades;wind in the upper atmosphere blowing above but in the opposite direction from the trade winds
motion picture;a form of entertainment that enacts a story by a sequence of images giving the illusion of continuous movement. 'they went to a movie every saturday night'. 'the film was shot on location'
example;a task performed or problem solved in order to develop skill or understanding. 'you must work the examples at the end of each chapter in the textbook'
tour de force;a masterly or brilliant feat
bris;the jewish rite of circumcision
location;the act of putting something in a certain place or location
mounting;deliberate and intentional triggering (of trouble or discord)
going away;act of departing
terrorism;the systematic use of violence as a means to intimidate or coerce societies or governments
church;a service conducted in a church. 'don't be late for church'
rign a rosy;a children's game in which the players dance around in a circle and at a given signal all squat
rave;declaiming wildly
formulation;the act of formulation something
urim and thummin;lots thrown to determine god's answers to yes-no questions
shock treatment;treatment of certain psychotic states by the administration of shocks that are followed by convulsions
cholangiography;roentgenographic examination of the bile ducts after a contrast medium has been injected
punctilio;strict observance of formalities
oral examination;an examination conducted by word of mouth
handling;the action of touching with the hands or the skillful use of the hands
duck soup;any activity that is easy to do. 'marketing this product will be no picnic'
sit down strike;a strike in which workers refuse to leave the workplace until a settlement is reached
internationalisation;the act of bringing something under international control
likening;the act of comparing similarities
blackball;the act of excluding someone by a negative vote or veto
day care;childcare during the day while parents work
polka;a bohemian dance with 3 steps and a hop in fast time
prefabrication;the manufacture of sections of a building at the factory so they can be easily and rapidly assembled at the building site
reshuffle;a redistribution of something. 'there was a reshuffle of cabinet officers'
chemin de fer;a card game played in casinos in which two or more punters gamble against the banker. the player wins who holds 2 or 3 cars that total closest to nine
demarche;a diplomatic move
stamp collecting;the collection and study of postage stamps
gossip;a report (often malicious) about the doings of other people. 'the divorce caused much gossip'
judgment of dismissal;a judgment disposing of the matter without a trial
teasing;playful vexation. 'the parody was just a form of teasing'
modern ballet;a style of ballet that admits a wider variety of movements
clench;the act of grasping. 'he released his clasp on my arm'. 'he has a strong grip for an old man'. 'she kept a firm hold on the railing'
leave taking;the act of departing politely. 'he disliked long farewells'. 'he took his leave'
singles;badminton played with one person on each side
contempt of congress;deliberate obstruction of the operation of the federal legislative branch
logging;the work of cutting down trees for timber
hanging;the act of suspending something (hanging it from above so it moves freely). 'there was a small ceremony for the hanging of the portrait'
laparoscopic cholecystectomy;removal of the gall bladder through small punctures in the abdomen to permit the insertion of a laparoscope and surgical instruments
split ticket;a ballot cast by a voter who votes for candidates from more than one party
variance;discord that splits a group
robbery;plundering during riots or in wartime
pampering;the act of indulging or gratifying a desire
medicare;health care for the aged. a federally administered system of health insurance available to persons aged 65 and over
pogy;(great britain) money received from the state
self praise;speaking of yourself in superlatives
stickball;a form of baseball played in the streets with a rubber ball and broomstick handle
readmission;the act of admitting someone again. 'the surgery was performed on his readmission to the clinic'
hard sell;forceful and insistent advertising
headmastership;the position of headmaster
civic duty;the responsibilities of a citizen
electrocardiography;recording the activity of the heart electronically with a cardiograph (and producing a cardiogram)
camber;the alignment of the wheels of a motor vehicle closer together at the bottom than at the top
persona;an actor's portrayal of someone in a play. 'she played the part of desdemona'
disapproval;the act of disapproving or condemning
nosecount;a period count of the population
whacking;the act of inflicting corporal punishment with repeated blows
temperance;abstaining from excess
heave;the act of raising something. 'he responded with a lift of his eyebrow'. 'fireman learn several different raises for getting ladders up'
seafaring;the work of a sailor
collusion;agreement on a secret plot
intercession;the act of intervening (as to mediate a dispute)
toil;productive work (especially physical work done for wages). 'his labor did not require a great deal of skill'
badminton;a game played on a court with light long-handled rackets used to volley a shuttlecock over a net
stakeout;surveillance of some place or some person by the police (as in anticipation of a crime)
no brainer;(informal) anything that requires little thought
saratoga;a battle during the american revolutionary war (1777). the british under burgoyne were defeated
intelligence activity;the operation of gathering information about an enemy
naprapathy;a drugless method of treatment based on the belief that disease symptoms arise from problems with ligaments and connective tissues
mail;the system whereby messages are transmitted via the post office
supplication;the act of communicating with a deity (especially as a petition or in adoration or contrition or thanksgiving)
belly whop;a dive in which the abdomen bears the main force of impact with the water
serotherapy;treating an infectious disease by injecting an antitoxin or specific serum
midterm examination;an examination administered in the middle of an academic term
uptick;a transaction in the stock market at a price above the price of the preceding transaction
obedience;behavior intended to please your parents. 'their children were never very strong on obedience'. 'he went to law school out of respect for his father's wishes'
kwela;a kind of danceable music popular among black south africans. includes a whistle among its instruments
combat intelligence;intelligence that is required for the planning and conduct of tactical operations
rescue;recovery or preservation from loss or danger. 'work is the deliverance of mankind' or 'a surgeon's job is the saving of lives'
constriction;the action or process of constricting or squeezing
cynoscephalae;the battle that ended the second macedonian war (197 bc). the romans defeated king philip of macedon
return;a coming to or returning home. 'on the eve of his return to australia we gave him a goodbye party'
judicial review;review by a court of law of actions of a government official or entity or of some other legally appointed person or body or the review by an appellate court of the decision of a trial court
cooperation;joint operation or action: 'their cooperation with us was essential for the success of our mission'
danse macabre;a medieval dance in which a skeleton representing death leads a procession of others to the grave
battue;a hunt in which beaters force the game to flee in the direction of the hunter
double entry;bookkeeper debits the transaction to one account and credits it to another
national censorship;censorship under civil authority of communications entering or leaving of crossing the borders of the united states or its territories or possessions
belly flop;a dive in which the abdomen bears the main force of impact with the water
vaccinating;the act of protecting against disease by introducing a vaccine into the body to induce immunity
battle of solferino;an indecisive battle in 1859 between the french and sardinians under emperor napoleon iii and the austrians under emperor francis joseph i
fly;the act of hitting a baseball so that it flies high in the air
ableism;discrimination in favor of the able-bodied
rerun;a program that is broadcast again. 'she like to watch 'i love lucy' reruns'
ardennes counteroffensive;battle during world war ii. in december 1945 von rundstedt launched a powerful counteroffensive in the ardennes forest that caught the allies by surprise
judgment on the merits;judgment rendered through analysis and adjudication of the factual issues presented
congregation;the act of congregating
tillage;the cultivation of soil for raising crops
application;liquid preparation having a soothing or antiseptic or medicinal action when applied to the skin. 'a lotion for dry skin'
racquetball;a game played on a handball court with short-handled rackets
spectrum analysis;the use of spectroscopes to analyze spectra
cardiopulmonary resuscitation;an emergency procedure consisting of external cardiac massage and artificial respiration. the first treatment for a person who has collapsed and has no pulse and has stopped breathing. attempts to restore circulation of the blood and prevent death or brain damage due to lack of oxygen
auto limitation;social control achieved as a manifestation of self-will or consent
serial;a serialized set of programs. 'a comedey series'
ypres;battle in world war i (1914). heavy but indecisive fighting as the allies and the germans both tried to break through the lines of the others
raise;the act of raising something. 'he responded with a lift of his eyebrow'. 'fireman learn several different raises for getting ladders up'
exegesis;an explanation or critical interpretation (especially of the bible)
farandole;a lively dance from provence. all the dancers join hands and execute various figures
registration;the act of adjusting something to match a standard
smash;the act of colliding with something
straight arm;(football) the act of warding off a tackler by holding the arm fully extended with the hand against the opponent
distress;the seizure and holding of property as security for payment of a debt or satisfaction of a claim
cast;the act of throwing a fishing line out over the water by means of a rod and reel
flip flop;a backward somersault
simoom;a violent hot sand-laden wind on the deserts of arabia and north africa
conquest;an act of winning the love of someone
monolatry;the worship of a single god but without claiming that it is the only god
performing;the performance of a part or role in a drama
secretary of veterans affairs;the position of the head of the department of veterans affairs. 'the post of secretary of veterans affairs was created in 1989'
armament;the act of equiping with weapons in preparation for war
attorney general of the united states;the position of the head of the justice department and the chief law enforcement officer of the united states. 'the post of attorney general was created in 1789'
shoestring catch;(baseball) a running catch made near the ground
backbend;an acrobatic feat in which the trunk is bent backward from a standing position until the hands touch the floor
catch;the act of catching an object with the hands. 'mays made the catch with his back to the plate'
viatication;purchasing insurance policies for cash from terminally ill policy holders
mandate;(politics) the commission that is given to a government and its policies through an electoral victory
assistance;the activity of contributing to the fulfillment of a need or furtherance of an effort or purpose: 'he gave me an assist with the housework'. 'could not walk without assistance'. 'rescue party went to their aid'. 'offered his help in unloading'
agribusiness;a large-scale farming enterprise
penetration;an attack that penetrates into enemy territory
disagreement;the speech act of disagreeing or arguing or disputing
allocation;(computer science) the assignment of particular areas of a magnetic disk to particular data or instructions
abandonment;the act of giving something up
open heart surgery;heart surgery in which the heart is opened and blood is detoured through a heart-lung machine
reexamination;a second (or subsequent) examination
quickstep;a ballroom dance with both quick and slow steps
judgment;the act of judging or assessing. 'they criticized my judgment of the contestants'
line of work;the principal activity in your life. 'he's not in my line of business'
analysis;a set of techniques for exploring underlying motives and a method of treating various mental disorders. 'his physician recommended psychoanalysis'
racism;discriminatory or abusive behavior towards members of another race
cooperative;a commercial enterprise run for the benefit of its owners
bass;the lowest adult male singing voice
escape;an inclination to retreat from unpleasant realities through diversion or fantasy. 'he escaped into romantic novels'. 'his alcohol problem was a form of escapism'
contact sport;a sport that necessarily involves body contact between opposing players
arnica;an ointment used in treating bruises
objection;the speech act of objecting
digging up;the act of digging up something (especially a corpse) that has been buried
limitation;an act of limiting or restricting (as by regulation)
mastectomy;surgical removal of a breast to remove a malignant tumor
catch;the act of apprehending (especially apprehending a criminal). 'the policeman on the beat got credit for the collar'
chrisom;a consecrated mixture of oil and balsam
bibliolatry;worship of the bible
galanty show;a drama executed by throwing shadows on a wall
inroad;an invasion or hostile attack
samba;a lively ballroom dance from brazil
confederation;the act of forming an alliance or confederation
peepshow;a short pornographic film shown in a small coin-operated booth
drugging;the administration of a sedative agent or drug
faith;loyalty or allegiance to a cause or a person. 'keep the faith'. 'they broke faith with their investors'
hurl;a violent throw
cycling;the sport of traveling on a bicycle or motorcycle
highland fling;a vigorous scottish reel
drill;training in marching and the use of weapons
pushover;any activity that is easy to do. 'marketing this product will be no picnic'
stratified sampling;the population is divided into subpopulations (strata) and random samples are taken of each stratum
teutoburger wald;a battle in 9 ad in which the germans under arminius annihilated three roman legions
calibration;the act of checking or adjusting (by comparison with a standard) the accuracy of a measuring instrument. 'the thermometer needed calibration'
testing;the act of testing students or candidates (as by questions)
disturbance;a noisy fight
accomplishment;the act of accomplishing something
fencing;the act or art of using a sword as in fencing
judo;a sport adapted from jujitsu (using principles of not resisting) and similar to wrestling. developed in japan
health care;social insurance for the ill and injured
housewifery;the work of a housewife
casting;the act of creating something by casting it in a mold
decompression;relieving pressure
vault;the act of vaulting
drug traffic;traffic in illegal drugs
isolation;a country's withdrawal from internal politics. 'he opposed a policy of american isolation'
landscape gardening;working as a landscape gardner
dissemination;opening to public discussion and debate
president;the office of the us head of state. 'a president is elected every four years'
allowance;the act of allowing. 'he objected to the allowance of smoking in the diningroom'
tactical intelligence;intelligence that is required for the planning and conduct of tactical operations
deficit spending;spending money raised by borrowing. used by governments to stimulate their economy
medication;the act of treating with medicines or remedies
naysaying;the act of saying no to a request
four hitter;a game in which a pitcher allows the opposing team 4 hits
tag;one child chases the others. the one who is caught becomes the next chaser
aquatics;sports that involve bodies of water
dare;a challenge to do something dangerous or foolhardy. 'he could never refuse a dare'
mercy;alleviation of distress. showing great kindness toward the distressed. 'distributing food and clothing to the flood victims was an act of mercy'
hydrotherapy;the internal and external use of water in the treatment of disease
rubbing;effort expended in rubbing one object against another
deluge;a heavy rain
obtainment;the act of obtaining
racialism;discriminatory or abusive behavior towards members of another race
taxonomy;practice of classifying plants and animals according to their presumed natural relationships
safety;the successful act of striking a baseball in such a way that the batter reaches base safely
overt operation;the collection of intelligence openly without concealment
forfeit;the act of losing or surrendering something as a penalty for a mistake or fault or failure to perform etc.
roofing;the craft of a roofer
field press censorship;security review of news (including all information or material intended for dissemination to the public) subject to the jurisdiction of the armed forces
interposition;the act of interposing one thing between or among others
old age insurance;insurance paid to the elderly
spotsylvania;a battle between the armies of grant and lee during the wilderness campaign
salvo;rapid simultaneous discharge of firearms. 'our fusillade from the left flank caught them by surprise'
chore;a specific piece of work required to be done as a duty or for a specific fee: 'estimates of the city's loss on that job ranged as high as a million dollars'. 'the job of repairing the engine took several hours'. 'the endless task of classifying the samples'. 'the farmer's morning chores'
tourism;the business of providing services to tourists. 'tourism is a major business in bermuda'
dionysia;an orgiastic festival in ancient greece in honor of dionysus (= bacchus)
activating;the activity of causing to have energy and be active
instrument;the means whereby something is accomplished. 'my greed was the instrument of my destruction' or 'science has given us new tools to fight disease'
whole word method;teaching reading by training beginners to associate printed words with spoken words
set;the act of putting something in position. 'he gave a final set to his hat'
convincing;a successful persuasion
exhibit;something shown to the public. 'the museum had many exhibits of oriental art'
childcare;a service involving care for other people's children
siege of syracuse;the athenian siege of syracuse (415-413 bc) was eventually won by syracuse
penalty;the act of punishing
weaving;creating fabric
ravenna;a battle between the french and an alliance of spaniards and swiss and venetians in 1512
animal worship;worship of animals
autogenic training;training patients in self-induced relaxation
debunking;the exposure of falseness or pretensions. 'the debunking of religion has been too successful'
courtship;a man's courting of a woman. seeking the affections of a woman (usually with the hope of marriage). 'its was a brief and intense courtship'
fairytale;a story about fairies. told to amuse children
rogation;a solemn supplication ceremony prescribed by the church
iconolatry;the worship of sacred images
time exposure;exposure of a film for a relatively long time (more than half a second)
unobserved fire;fire for which the point of impact (the bursts) cannot be observed
canalization;management through specified channels of communication
theatrical role;an actor's portrayal of someone in a play. 'she played the part of desdemona'
disembarkation;the act of passengers and crew getting off of a ship or aircraft
leniency;lightening a penalty or excusing from a chore by judges or parents or teachers
standardization;the act of checking or adjusting (by comparison with a standard) the accuracy of a measuring instrument. 'the thermometer needed calibration'
confirmation;making something valid by formally ratifying or confirming it. 'the ratification of the treaty'. 'confirmation of the appointment'
spectrometry;the use of spectroscopes to analyze spectra
pelota;a basque or spanish game played in a court with a ball and a wickerwork racket
email;(computer science) a system of world-wide electronic communication in which a computer user can compose a message at one terminal that is generated at the recipient's terminal when he logs in
handwriting;the activity of writing by hand: 'handwriting can be slow and painful for one with arthritis'
by line;an auxiliary activity
snap roll;a fast roll
anemometry;measuring wind speed and direction
air;medium for spoken communication. 'he gave air to his objections'
knucklebones;a game in which jackstones are thrown and picked up in various groups between bounces of a small rubber ball
corn dance;a rain dance of amerindians
militarization;act of assembling and putting into readiness for war or other emergency: 'mobilization of the troops
face lifting;an operation to remove wrinkles and other signs of aging from your face
internship;the position of intern
lining;the act of attaching an inside lining (to a garment or curtain etc.)
jujitsu;a method of self-defense without weapons that was developed in china and japan. holds and blows are supplemented by clever use of the attacker's own weight and strength
reaffiliation;affiliation anew
extemporization;a performance given without planning or preparation
lullaby;a quiet song that lulls a child to sleep
ransom;the act of freeing from captivity or punishment
osteopathy;therapy based on the assumption that restoring health is best accomplished by manipulating the skeleton and muscles
contact;the act of touching physically. 'her fingers came in contact with the light switch'
labor of love;productive work performed voluntarily without material reward or compensation
takeoff;a departure. especially of airplanes
mistrial;a trial that is invalid or inconclusive
permission;the act of giving a formal (usually written) authorization
low pressure;an air mass of lower pressure. often brings precipitation. 'a low moved in over night bringing sleet and snow'
search;the activity of looking thoroughly in order to find something or someone
conventionalization;the act of stylizing. causing to conform to a particular style
canonization;(roman catholic church and eastern orthodox church) the act of admitting a deceased person into the canon of saints
probe;an exploratory action or expedition
weather;the meteorological conditions: temperature and wind and clouds and precipitation. 'they were hoping for good weather'. 'every day we have weather conditions and yesterday was no exception'the meteorological conditions: temperature and wind and clouds and precipitation. 'they were hoping for good weather'. 'every day we have weather conditions and yesterday was no exception'
autolatry;worship of yourself
compromise;a middle way between two extremes
counterrevolution;a revolution whose aim is to reverse the changes introduced by a previous revolution
woodwork;the craft of a carpenter: making things out of wood
smash;a conspicuous success. 'that song was his first hit and marked the beginning of his career'
reenforcement;a military operation (often involving new supplies of men and materiel) to strengthen a military force or aid in the performance of its mission. 'they called for artillery support'
desertion;the act of giving something up
laparoscopy;laparotomy performed with a laparoscope
self service;the practice of serving yourself (as in a grocery or cafeteria)
hejira;a journey by a large group to escape from a hostile environment
passive resistance;peaceful resistance to a government by fasting or refusing to cooperate
shiatsu;(chinese and japanese) treatment of symptoms by applying pressure with the fingers to specific pressure points on the body
chopper;a grounder that bounces high in the air
effort;a series of actions advancing a principle or tending toward a particular end. 'he supported populist campaigns'. 'they worked in the cause of world peace'. 'the team was ready for a drive toward the pennant'. 'the movement to end slavery'. 'contributed to the war effort'
demonstration;a show of military force or preparedness. 'he confused the enemy with feints and demonstrations'
disbursal;the act of spending or disbursing money
dropping anchor;a act of securing an arriving vessel with ropes or anchors
shape up;a way of hiring longshoremen by the day. applicants gather around a union boss who selects those to be hired
slavery;work done under harsh conditions for little or no pay
soap opera;a serialized program usually dealing with sentimentalized family matters that is broadcast on radio or television (frequently sponsored by a company advertising soap products)
clemency;leniency and compassion shown toward offenders by a person or agency charged with administering justice. 'he threw himself on the mercy of the court'
medical prognosis;a prediction of the course of a disease
prisonbreak;an escape from jail. 'the breakout was carefully planned'
social work;any of various services designed to aid the poor and aged and to increase the welfare of children
aria;an elaborate song for solo voice
restriction;the act of restricting by restraint
keno;a game in which numbered balls are drawn and random and players cover the corresponding numbers on their cards
mailing;the transmission of a letter. 'the postmark indicates the time of mailing'
attack;a formulation adopted in tackling a problem. 'his approach to every problem is to draw up a list of pros and cons'
classroom project;a school task requiring considerable effort
simony;traffic in ecclesiastical offices or preferments
unfinished business;work that is left incomplete
notification;an accusation of crime made by a grand jury on its own initiative
planking;the work of covering an area with planks
habitation;the act of inhabiting
wrestle;the act of engaging in close hand-to-hand combat. 'they had a fierce wrestle'. 'we watched his grappling and wrestling with the bully'
spillikins;a game in which players try to pick each jackstraw (or spillikin) off of a pile without moving any of the others
symbololatry;worship of symbols
cinch;any activity that is easy to do. 'marketing this product will be no picnic'
treasury secretary;the position of the head of the treasury department. 'the position of treasury secretary was created in 1789'
shock therapy;treatment of certain psychotic states by the administration of shocks that are followed by convulsions
malicious gossip;disgraceful gossip about the private lives of other people
beanball;a baseball deliberately thrown at the batter's head
slam dance;a form of dancing in which dancers slam into one another. normally performed to punk rock
musical performance;act of performing music
fandango;a provocative spanish courtship dance in triple time. performed by a man and a woman playing castanets
fontenoy;a battle in 1745 in which the french army under marshal saxe defeated the anglo-allied army under the duke of cumberland
tactical manoeuver;a move made to gain a tactical end
auspices;kindly endorsement and guidance. 'the tournament was held under the auspices of the city council'
association;the act of consorting with or joining with others. 'you cannot be convicted of criminal guilt by association'
fashioning;the act that results in something coming to be. 'the devising of plans'. 'the fashioning of pots and pans'. 'the making of measurements'
header;a headlong jump (or fall). 'he took a header into the shrubbery'
selection;the act of choosing or selecting. 'your choice of colors was unfortunate'. 'you can take your pick'
cause;a series of actions advancing a principle or tending toward a particular end. 'he supported populist campaigns'. 'they worked in the cause of world peace'. 'the team was ready for a drive toward the pennant'. 'the movement to end slavery'. 'contributed to the war effort'
shading;a gradation involving small or imperceptible differences between grades
tempestuousness;a state of wild storminess
blow;a strong current of air. 'the tree was bent almost double by the gust'
horsewhipping;the act of whipping with a horsewhip. 'that villain needs a good horsewhipping'
cover;the act of concealing the existence of something by obstructing the view of it. 'the cover concealed their guns from enemy aircraft'
forswearing;the act of renouncing
grappling;the sport of hand-to-hand struggle between unarmed contestants who try to throw each other down
throw;the act of throwing (propelling something through the air with a rapid movement of the arm and wrist). 'the catcher made a good throw to second base'
rendezvous;a meeting planned at a certain time and place
birdnesting;hunting for birds' nests to get the eggs
roll;a flight maneuver. aircraft rotates about its longitudinal axis without changing direction or losing altitude
nihil obstat;authoritative approval
redistribution;distributing again
pushup;an arm exercise performed lying face to the floor and pushing the body up and down with the arms
exploit;a notable achievement: 'the book was her finest effort'a notable achievement: 'the book was her finest effort'
ferry;transport by boat or aircraft
solving;finding a solution to a problem
judgment by default;a judgment entered in favor of the plaintiff when the defendant defaults (fails to appear in court)
monopoly;(trademark) a board game in which players try to gain a monopoly on real estate as pieces advance around the board according to the throw of a die
hijinks;noisy and mischievous merrymaking
time motion study;an analysis of a specific job in an effort to find the most efficient method in terms of time and effort
battle of wagram;a battle in the napoleonic campaigns (1809). napoleon defeated the austrians
retail;the selling of goods to consumers. usually in small quantities and not for resale
topiary;making decorative shapes by trimming shrubs or trees
electronic reconnaissance;the detection and identification and evaluation and location of foreign electromagnetic radiations (other than radioactive)
reapportioning;a new apportionment (especially a reallotment of us congressional seats on the basis of census results)
compression;encoding information while reducing the bandwidth or bits required
play;the act of playing for stakes in the hope of winning (including the payment of a price for a chance to win a prize). 'his gambling cost him a fortune'. 'there was heavy play at the blackjack table'
non sequitur;a reply that has no relevance to what preceded it
urging;the act of earnestly supporting or encouraging
monopolisation;domination (of a market or commodity) to the exclusion of others
suggestion;the act of inducing hypnosis
chinaman;a ball bowled by a left-handed bowler to a right-handed batsman that spins from off to leg
abjuration;a disavowal of a previous assertion
souther;a wind from the south
prank;a ludicrous or grotesque act done for fun and amusement
commandment;something that is commanded
crap game;a gambling game using two dice
pipeline;gossip spread by spoken communication. 'the news of their affair was spread by word of mouth'
closed primary;a primary in which only registered members of a particular political party can vote. 'closed primaries strengthen party unity'
lotion;liquid preparation having a soothing or antiseptic or medicinal action when applied to the skin. 'a lotion for dry skin'
tarawa;battles in world war ii in the pacific (november 1943). us marines took the islands from the japanese after bitter fighting
hug;a tight embrace
commercialism;"transactions having the objective of supplying commodities"transactions having the objective of supplying commodities
conducting;the way of administering a business
treatment;an extended communication (often interactive) dealing with some particular topic. 'the book contains an excellent discussion of modal logic'. 'his treatment of the race question is badly biased'
high tech;a highly technical implementation. usually involving electronic hardware. 'automation replaces human workers by machines'
rehearing;the act of hearing again
banking;engaging in the business of banking
liveliness;general activity and motion
lithotomy;surgical removal of a stone (calculus)
conceptualisation;the act of formulation something
drive;a series of actions advancing a principle or tending toward a particular end. 'he supported populist campaigns'. 'they worked in the cause of world peace'. 'the team was ready for a drive toward the pennant'. 'the movement to end slavery'. 'contributed to the war effort'
keeping;conformity or harmony. 'his behavior was not in keeping with the occasion'
socage;land tenure by agricultural service or payment of rent. not burdened with military service
theatrical;a performance of play
mah jongg;chinese game played by 4 people with 144 tiles
skin dive;underwater swimming with a breathing apparatus
rebellion;organized opposition to authority. a conflict in which one faction tries to wrest control from another
rhythm method of birth control;an attempt to control conception by refraining from intercourse during the period when ovulation is most likely to occur
battle of tannenberg;a battle in world war i (1914). decisive german victory over the russians
contracting;becomeing infected. 'catching cold is sometimes unavoidable'. 'the contracting of a serious illness can be financially catastrophic'
umpirage;the act of umpiring
displacement;act of removing from office or employment
bezique;a card game played with a 48-card pack (two of each suit for high cards). play resembles whist
moulding;a preliminary sculpture in wax or clay from which a finished work can be copied
set;several exercises intended to be done in series. 'he did four sets of the incline bench press'
description;a act of describing something
transfer;transferring ownership
divine office;canonical prayers recited daily by priests (e.g. the breviary of the roman catholic church)
cut and thrust;fighting with knives
teamwork;cooperative work done by a team
brewing;the production of malt beverages (as beer or ale) from malt and hops by grinding and boiling them and fermenting the result with yeast
buck and wing;a solo tap dance emphasizing sharp taps
battle of lake trasimenus;a battle in 217 bc in which hannibal ambushed a roman army led by flaminius
demurrer;a defendant's answer or plea denying the truth of the charges against him. 'he gave evidence for the defense'
popularity contest;competition (real or figurative) for popular support
saint mihiel;a battle in the meuse-argonne operation in world war i (1918). the battle in which american troops launched their first offensive in france
turnout;attendance for a particular event or purpose: 'the turnout for the rally'
rivalry;the act of competing as for profit or a prize: 'the teams were in fierce contention for first place'
inertial guidance;a method of controlling the flight of a missile by devices that respond to inertial forces
glyptography;carving or engraving esp. on stones
notice;advance notification of the intention to withdraw from an arrangement or contract. 'we received a notice to vacate the premises'. 'he gave notice two months before he moved'
revolt;organized opposition to authority. a conflict in which one faction tries to wrest control from another
vertical bank;a bank so steep that the plane's lateral axis approaches the vertical
traffic;buying and selling. especially illicit trade
seating;the service of ushering people to their seats
smooth;the act of smoothing. 'he gave is hair a quick smooth'
battery;the heavy fire of artillery to saturate an area rather than hit a specific target. 'they laid down a barrage in front of the advancing troops'
vivification;the activity of giving vitality and vigour to something
pigsticking;the sport of hunting wild boar with spears
coeducation;education of men and women in the same institutions
self discovery;discovering your own individuality
reelection;election again. 'he did not run for reelection'
flagellation;beating with a whip or strap or rope as a form of punishment
construction;the commercial activity involved in constructing buildings. 'their main business is home construction'. 'workers in the building trades'
curatorship;the position of curator
shark repellent;a measure undertaken by a corporation to discourage unwanted takeover attempts
socialization;the act of meeting for social purposes. 'there was too much socialization with the enlisted men'
postal service;the system whereby messages are transmitted via the post office
banzai attack;a mass attack of troops without concern for casualties. originated by japanese who accompanied it with yells of 'banzai'
press up;an arm exercise performed lying face to the floor and pushing the body up and down with the arms
deployment;the distribution of forces in preparation for battle or work
ice show;any entertainment performed by ice skaters
open primary;a primary in which any registered voter can vote (but must vote for candidates of only one party)
blood profile;counting the number of white and red blood cells and the number of platelets in 1 cubic millimeter of blood
naseby;a battle in 1645 that settled the outcome of the first english civil war as the parliamentarians won a major victory over the royalists
diagnosing;identifying the nature or cause of some phenomenon
heater;a baseball thrown with maximum velocity. 'he swung late on the fastball'. 'he showed the batters nothing but smoke'
ban;an official prohibition
protestation;a formal and solemn declaration of objection. 'they finished the game under protest to the league prsident'. 'the senator rose to register his protest'. 'the many protestations did not stay the execution'
touching;the act of putting two things together with no space between them. 'at his touch the room filled with lights'
coup;a sudden and decisive change of government illegally or by force
reinterpretation;a new or different interpretation
serum therapy;treating an infectious disease by injecting an antitoxin or specific serum
intramuscular injection;an injection into a muscle
job;the responsibility to do something. 'it is their job to print the truth'
forcing out;the act of expelling or projecting or ejecting
shiloh;the second great battle of the american civil war (1862). the battle ended with the withdrawal of confederate troops but is was not a union victory
systematization;systematic organization
somme river;battle of world war ii (1944)
giving;the act of giving
french lesson;instruction in the french language
royal national eisteddfod;an eisteddfod with competitions in music and drama and poetry and the fine arts
perforation;the act of punching a role of holes (as for ease of separation)
handspring;an acrobatic feat in which a person goes from a standing position to a handstand and back again
bop;an early form of modern jazz (originating around 1940)
cloudiness;the state of the sky when it is covered by clouds
roller skating;skating on wheels
tune up;exercising in preparation for strenuous activity
rejection;the act of rejecting something. 'his proposals were met with rejection'
ping pong;a game resembling tennis but played on a table with paddles and a light hollow ball
trafalgar;a naval battle in 1805 off the sw coast of spain. the french and spanish fleets were defeated by the english under nelson (who was mortally wounded)
sledding;advancing toward a goal. 'persuading him was easy going' or 'the proposal faces tough sledding'
pump priming;spending money raised by borrowing. used by governments to stimulate their economy
smooch;an enthusiastic kiss
mine disposal;the disposal of explosive mines
tumbling;the gymnastic moves of an acrobat
conversion;a score in american football made on a try for points after a touchdown
examination;formal systematic questioning
suing;a petition or appeal made to a person of superior status or rank
repurchase;purchasing back something previously sold
sensory activity;activity intended to achieve a particular sensory result
bize;a dry cold north wind in se france
grind;the act of grinding
high low jack;card games in which points are won for taking the high or low or jack or game
health care delivery;the provision of medical care
filing;preservation and methodical arrangement as of documents and papers etc: 'i having some filing to do'
reorganization;the act of imposing a new organization
short covering;the purchase of securities or commodities by a short seller to close out a short sale
test;a set of questions or exercises evaluating skill or knowledge. 'when the test was stolen the professor had to make a new set of questions'
fair catch;a catch of a punt on the fly by a defensive player who has signalled that he will not run and so should not be tackled
bell ringing;persuasion of voters in a political campaign
managership;the position of manager
spitting;the act of spitting (forcefully expelling saliva)
throwing away;getting rid something that is regarded as useless or undesirable
polo;a game similar to field hockey but played on horseback using long-handled mallets and a wooden ball
reaching;accomplishment of an objective
apiculture;the cultivation of bees on a commercial scale for the production of honey
chinese revolution;the republican revolution against the manchu dynasty in china. 1911-1912
civil defense;activities organized by civilians for their own protection in time of war or disaster
ceramics;the art of making and decorating pottery
battle of ypres;battle in world war i (1917). an allied offensive which eventually failed because tanks bogged down in the waterlogged soil of flanders. germans introduced mustard gas which interfered with the allied artillery
giving medication;the act of administering medication
persuasion;changing a person's beliefs by argument or reasoning or entreaty
casework;close sociological study of a maladjusted person or family for diagnosis and treatment
spreading;opening to public discussion and debate
battle of britain;the bombardment of british cities by german aircraft during world war ii and the aerial combat that accompanied it
berth;a job in an organization or hierarchy. 'he ocupied a post in the treasury'
publication;the act of issuing printed materials
arab israeli war;arab-israeli tension erupted into a brief war in june 1967. israel emerged as a major power in the middle east
custody;holding by the police. 'the suspect is in custody'
hit;a conspicuous success. 'that song was his first hit and marked the beginning of his career'
bebop;an early form of modern jazz (originating around 1940)
issue;the provision of something by issuing it (usually in quantity). 'a new issue of stamps'. 'the last issue of penicillin was over a month ago'
sevens;a card game in which you play your sevens and other cards in sequence in the same suit as their sevens. you win if you are the first to use all your cards
pleasing;the act of indulging or gratifying a desire
investing;the act of investing. laying out money or capital in an enterprise with the expectation of profit
easterly;a wind from the east
yielding;the act of conceding or yielding
spoonfeeding;feeding someone (as a baby) from a spoon
bond trading activity;trading in bonds (usually by a broker on the floor of an exchange)
auction sale;the public sale of something to the highest bidder
hostile expedition;a military campaign designed to achieve a specific objective in a foreign country
gunfight;a fight involving shooting small arms with the intent to kill or frighten
good weather;weather suitable for outdoor activities
baccalaureate;a farewell sermon to a graduating class at their commencement ceremonies
secretaryship;the position of secretary
emirate;the office of an emir
by election;a special election between regular elections
enlargement;an interpretation that provides additional information
three hitter;a game in which a pitcher allows the opposing team only 3 hits
talk;a act of giving a talk to an audience. 'i attended an interesting talk on local history'
anapaest;a metrical unit with unstressed-unstressed-stressed syllables
mining;laying explosive mines in concealed places to destroy enemy personnel and equipment
piloting;the guidance of ships or airplanes from place to place
casino;a card game in which cards face up on the table are taken with eligible cards in the hand
gypsy dancing;a style of dancing characteristic of the andalusian gypsies. vigorous and rhythmic with clapping and stamping of feet
cassino;a card game in which cards face up on the table are taken with eligible cards in the hand
chemical operations;warfare using chemical agents to kill or injure or incapacitate the enemy
assignment;as duty that you are assigned to perform especially in the armed forces: 'hazardous duty'
supporting fire;fire delivered by supporting units to protect or assist a unit in combat
depth psychology;a set of techniques for exploring underlying motives and a method of treating various mental disorders. 'his physician recommended psychoanalysis'
externalization;embodying in an outward form
radium therapy;the use of radium in radiotherapy
formality;compliance with formal rules
rainfall;water falling in drops from vapor condensed in the atmosphere
lark;any carefree episode
controversy;a dispute where there is strong disagreement. 'they were involved in a violent argument'
secretary of housing and urban development;the position of the head of the department of housing and urban development. 'the position of secretary of housing and urban development was created in 1966'
final exam;an examination administered at the end of an academic term
hypostatisation;regarding something abstract as a material thing
appendectomy;surgical removal of the vermiform appendix
primary;a preliminary election where delegates or nominees are chosen
spinal tap;removal of fluid from the subarachnoid space of the lumbar region of the spinal cord for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes
cinch;a form of all fours in which the players bid for the privilege of naming trumps
imitative electronic deception;the introduction of electromagnetic energy into enemy systems that imitates enemy emissions
honoring;conformity with law or custom or practice etc.
physiatrics;therapy that uses physical agents: exercise and massage and other modalities
reconsideration;a consideration of a topic (as in a meeting) with a view to changing an earlier decision
day game;a game played in daylight
sortie;a military action in which besieged troops burst forth from their position
softball;a game closely resembling baseball that is played on a smaller diamond and with a ball that is larger and softer
sine qua non;a prerequisite
profession;an occupation requiring special education (especially in the liberal arts or sciences)
nursing;the work of caring for the sick or injured or infirm
mizzle;very light rain. stronger than mist but less than a shower
fuss;petty quarrel
bossism;domination of a political organization by a party boss
ivry;a battle (1590) in which the huguenots under henry iv of france defeated the catholics under the duke of mayenne
takeover;a sudden and decisive change of government illegally or by force
caliphate;the office of a caliph
clutch;the act of grasping. 'he released his clasp on my arm'. 'he has a strong grip for an old man'. 'she kept a firm hold on the railing'
total hysterectomy;surgical removal of the uterus and cervix
continuous receiver watch;a watch established for the reception of traffic of interest to the unit maintaining the watch
musclebuilding;exercise that builds muscles through tension
implementation;the act of accomplishing some aim or executing some order. 'the agency was created for the implementation of the policy'
apostleship;the position of apostle
interception;the act of catching a football by a player on the opposing team
planting;putting seeds in the ground to grow. 'the planting of corn is hard work'
underachievement;poorer than expected performance (poorer than might have been predicted from intelligence tests)
deliberate defense;a defensive organized before contact is made with the enemy and while time for organization is available. usually includes a fortified zone (with pillboxes) and communication systems
grant;the act of providing a subsidy
arthroscopy;a minimally invasive operation to repair a damaged joint. the surgeon examines the joint with an arthroscope while making repairs through a small incision
laundering;washing clothes and bed linens
arguing;a dispute where there is strong disagreement. 'they were involved in a violent argument'
fresh gale;wind moving 39-46 knots. 8 on the beaufort scale
rapine;the act of despoiling a country in warfare
levy;the act of drafting into military service
bout;a brief indulgence of your impulses
passing;success in satisfying a test or requirement. 'his future depended on his passing that test'. 'he got a pass in introductory chemistry'
rendering;a performance of a musical composition or a dramatic role etc.
soak;washing something by allowing it to soak
solo blast;a home run with no runners on base
eurythmics;the interpretation in harmonious bodily movements of the rhythm of musical compositions
calming;the act of appeasing
condition;the procedure that is varied in order to estimate a variable's effect by comparison with a control condition
pilotage;the guidance of ships or airplanes from place to place
purchase;the acquisition of something for payment. 'they closed the purchase with a handshake'
guidance;the act of guiding or showing the way
law enforcement;insuring obedience to the laws
looking for;the act of searching visually
show trial;a trial held for show. the guilt of the accused person has been decided in advance
self abasement;voluntary self-punishment in order to atone for some wrongdoing
abandonment;the voluntary surrender of property (or a right to property) without attempting to reclaim it or give it away
default judgment;a judgment entered in favor of the plaintiff when the defendant defaults (fails to appear in court)
walk of life;careers in general. 'it happens in all walks of life'
assenting;agreeing with. 'assenting to the congressional determination'
reconnoitering;exploring in order to gain information
reckoning;the act of counting
change of pace ball;a baseball thrown with little velocity when the batter is expecting a fastball
spasm;(pathology) sudden constriction of a hollow organ (as a blood vessel)
handout;giving money or food or clothing to a needy person
crimean war;a war in crimea between russia and a group of nations including england france turkey sardinia. 1853-1856
battle;an open clash between two opposing groups (or individuals). 'the harder the conflict the more glorious the triumph'--thomas paine. 'police tried to control the battle between the pro- and anti-abortion mobs'
divulgence;the act of divulging something
orientation;the act of orienting
googly;a cricket ball bowled as if to break one way that actually breaks in the opposite way
eye contact;contact that occurs when two people look directly at each other. 'a teacher should make eye contact with the students'
eyeful;a full view. a good look. 'they wanted to see violence and they got an eyeful'
stranglehold;a wrestling hold in which the arms are pressed against the opponent's windpipe
forewarning;an early warning about a future event
secretary of commerce;the position of the head of the department of commerce. 'the position of commerce secretary was created in 1913'
umbrella;a formation of military planes maintained over ground operations or targets. 'an air umbrella over england'
parole;a promise. 'he gave his word'
governance;the act of governing. exercising authority. 'regulations for the government of state prisons'. 'he had considerable experience of government'
common meter;the usual (iambic) meter of a ballad
occupation;the principal activity in your life. 'he's not in my line of business'
near gale;wind moving 32-38 knots. 7 on the beaufort scale
cauterisation;the act of coagulating blood and destroying tissue with a hot iron or caustic agent or by freezing
damnation;the act of damning
misinterpretation;putting the wrong interpretation on. 'his misinterpretation of the question caused his error' or 'there was no mistaking her meaning'
battle of austerlitz;a decisive battle during the napoleonic campaigns (1805). the french under napoleon defeated the russian and austrian armies of czar alexander i and emperor francis ii
covering fire;fire that makes it difficult for the enemy to fire on your own individuals or formations. 'artillery provided covering fire for the withdrawal'
sporting life;active interest in gambling on sports events
leading;the activity of leading. 'his leadership inspired the team'
tool;the means whereby something is accomplished. 'my greed was the instrument of my destruction' or 'science has given us new tools to fight disease'
europeanization;assimilation into european culture
neutralization fire;fire that is delivered in order to render the target ineffective or unusable
climax;the moment of most intense pleasure in sexual intercourse
postmortem examination;an examination and dissection of a dead body to determine cause of death or the changes produced by disease
umpiring;the act of umpiring
religious ritual;a ceremony having religious meaning
subjection;the act of conquering
impingement;influencing strongly: 'they resented the impingement of american values on european culture'
sally;a venture off the beaten path. 'a sally into the wide world beyond his home'
apery;the act of mimicking. imitative behavior
use;exerting shrewd or devious influence especially for one's own advantage. 'his manipulation of his friends was scandalous'
danger;a venture undertaken without regard to possible loss or injury. 'he saw the rewards but not the risks of crime'. 'there was a danger he would do the wrong thing'
vengeance;the act of taking revenge (harming someone in retaliation for something harmful that they have done) especially in the next life. 'vengeance is mine. i will repay, saith the lord'--romans 12:19. 'for vengeance i would do nothing. this nation is too great to look for mere revenge'--james garfield. 'he swore vengeance on the man who betrayed him'. 'the swiftness of divine retribution'
anointing;the act of applying oil or an oily liquid
commission;a task that has been assigned to a person or group. 'a confidential mission to london'. 'his charge was deliver a message'
idolisation;worshiping blindly and to excess
eccm;electronic warfare undertaken to insure effective friendly use of the electromagnetic spectrum in spite of the enemy's use of electronic warfare
inhibition;the conscious exclusion of unacceptable thoughts or desires
beaner;a baseball deliberately thrown at the batter's head
role;an actor's portrayal of someone in a play. 'she played the part of desdemona'
fire watching;(during world war ii in britain) watching for fires started by bombs that dropped from the sky
franco prussian war;a war between france and prussia that ended the french second empire and led to the founding of the german empire. 1870-1871
decapitation;execution by cutting off the victim's head
slugfest;a fight with bare fists
wars of the roses;struggle for the english throne (1455-1485) between the house of york (white rose) and the house of lancaster (red rose) ending with the accession of the tudor monarch henry vii
lip synchronization;combining audio and video recording in such a way that the sound is perfectly synchronized with the action that produced it. especially synchronizing the movements of a speaker's lips with the sound of his speech
oil conservation;the conservation of petroleum resources
tribute;payment by one nation for protection by another
economic mobilisation;mobilization of the economy
regurgitation;the act of ejecting the contents of the stomach through the mouth
prep;preparatory school work done outside school (especially at home)
battering;the act of subjecting to strong attack
conviction;a final judgment of guilty in a criminal case and the punishment that is imposed. 'the conviction came as no surprise'
pop fly;a short high fly ball
coming;the moment of most intense pleasure in sexual intercourse
horseback riding;riding a horse as a sport
play reading;performance of a play by a group of readers
social control;control exerted (actively or passively) by group action
change up;a baseball thrown with little velocity when the batter is expecting a fastball
overlordship;the position of overlord
schematisation;providing a chart or outline of a system
gang fight;a fight between rival gangs of adolescents
juxtaposition;positioning close together (or side by side)
collection;the act of gathering something together"the act of gathering something together"
winnow;the act of winnowing
riot;a public act of violence by an unruly mob
swordplay;the act or art of using a sword as in fencing
firewall;(informal) the application of maximum thrust. 'he slammed the throttle to the firewall'
demobilization;act of changing from a war basis to a peace basis including disbanding or discharging troops: 'demobilization of factories'. 'immediate demobilization of the reserves'
spattering;the act of splashing a (liquid) substance on a surface
accommodation;the act of providing something (lodging or seat or food) to meet a need
accreditation;the act of certifying that an educational institution maintains suitable standards. 'a commission is responsible for the accreditation of medical schools'
narrow escape;something achieved (or escaped) by a narrow margin
sound ranging;locating a source of sound (as an enemy gun) by measurements of the time the sound arrives at microphones in known positions
reform;a campaign aimed to correct abuses or malpractices. 'the reforms he proposed were too radical for the politicians'
sprung rhythm;a poetic rhythm that imitates the rhythm of speech
gunrunning;the smuggling of guns and ammunition into a country secretly and illegally
integrating;the action of incorporating a racial or religious group into a community
chemical analysis;the act of decomposing a substance into its constituent elements
santiago de cuba;a naval battle in the spanish-american war (1898). the us fleet bottled up the spanish ships in the harbor of santiago de cuba and destroyed them when they tried to escape
moderate gale;wind moving 32-38 knots. 7 on the beaufort scale
one hitter;a game in which a pitcher allows the opposing team only one hit
residence;the act of dwelling in a place
stopgap;something contrived to meet an urgent need or emergency
liturgy;a rite or body of rites prescribed for public worship
vendue;the public sale of something to the highest bidder
matrimony;the ceremony or sacrament of marriage
touchdown;a landing (as the wheels touch the landing field). especially of airplanes
lesson;a unit of instruction. 'he took driving lessons'
electronics intelligence;intelligence derived from non-communications electromagnetic radiations from foreign sources (other than radioactive sources)
campaign;a series of actions advancing a principle or tending toward a particular end. 'he supported populist campaigns'. 'they worked in the cause of world peace'. 'the team was ready for a drive toward the pennant'. 'the movement to end slavery'. 'contributed to the war effort'
hysterectomy;surgical removal of the uterus
novelization;converting something into the form of a novel
knuckleball;a baseball pitch thrown with little speed or spin
sharing;a distribution in shares
inspection;the act of examining something closely (as for mistakes)
decompressing;relieving pressure
lubrication;an application of a lubricant to something
headship;the position of head
incurring;acquiring or coming into something (usually undesirable): 'incurring debts is easier than paying them'
confession of judgement;a judgment entered after a written confession by the debtor without the expense of ordinary legal proceedings
perturbation;activity that is an intrusion or interruption. 'he looked around for the source of the disturbance'. 'there was a disturbance of neural function'
magic;an illusory feat. considered magical by naive observers
ambassadorship;the post of ambassador
performance;a dramatic or musical entertainment. 'the play ran for 100 performances' or 'the frequent performances of the symphony testify to its popularity'
stop;a brief stay in the course of a journey. 'they made a stopover to visit their friends'
relinquishment;a verbal act of relinquishing
takeover arbitrage;arbitrage involving risk. as in the simultaneous purchase of stock in a target company and sale of stock in its potential acquirer. if the takeover fails the arbitrageur may lose a great deal of money
version;an interpretation of a matter from a particular viewpoint. 'his version of the fight was different from mine'
auto mechanics;the craft of building and repairing automobiles
disenfranchisement;the act of withdrawing certification
backing;the act of providing approval and support. 'his vigorous backing of the conservatives got him in trouble with progressives'
arrest;the act of apprehending (especially apprehending a criminal). 'the policeman on the beat got credit for the collar'
experiment;the act of conducting a controlled test or investigation
plevna;the town was taken from the turks by the russians in 1877 after a siege of 143 days
minden;a battle in the seven years' war (1759) in which the anglo-allied forces defeated the french
equalization;the act of making equal or uniform
traditionalism;adherence to tradition (especially in cultural or religious matters)
taste;distinguishing a taste by means of the taste buds. 'he loved the smell and taste of fresh bread'. 'a wine tasting'
repossession;seizure of the collateral securing a loan that is in default
fielding;(in baseball) handling the ball while playing in the field
revolution;the overthrow of a government by those who are governed
preachment;a sermon on a moral or religious topic
galvanizing;the therapeutic application of electricity to the body
operating procedure;a procedure for operating something or for dealing with a given situation
caesarean section;the delivery of a fetus by surgical incision through the abdominal wall and uterus (from the belief that julius caesar was born that way)
sight;the act of looking or seeing or observing. 'he tried to get a better view of it'. 'his survey of the battlefield was limited'
secretary of transportation;the position of the head of the department of transportation. 'the post of transportation secretary was created in 1966
countercurrent;actions counter to the main group activity. 'political crosscurrents disrupted the conference'
disposition;the act or means of getting rid of something
avenue;a line of approach. 'they explored every avenue they could think of'. 'it promises to open new avenues to understanding'
disengagement;to break off a military action with an enemy
compromise verdict;a verdict resulting from improper compromises between jurors on material issues
remonstrance;an expression of opposition to a course of action
fm;modulation of the frequency of the (radio) carrier wave
five hitter;a game in which a pitcher allows the opposing team 5 hits
restitution;getting something back again. 'upon the restitution of the book to its rightful owner the child was given a tongue lashing'
neo jazz;any of various styles of jazz that appeared after 1940
economy;an act of economizing. reduction in cost. 'it was a small economy to walk to work every day' or 'there was a saving of 50 cents'
burden of proof;the duty of proving a disputed charge
safekeeping;the responsibility of a guardian or keeper. 'he left his car in my keeping'
parting;the act of departing politely. 'he disliked long farewells'. 'he took his leave'
ophiolatry;worship of snakes
infiltration;a process in which a military force moves as individuals (or small groups) through enemy positions without detection
tree farming;the cultivation of tree for the production of timber
hurling;a traditional irish game resembling hockey. played by two teams of 15 players each
treatment;care by procedures or applications that are intended to relieve illness or injury
notifying;informing by words
pulse time modulation;modulation of the time between successive pulses
vicksburg;a decisive battle in the american civil war (1863). after being besieged for nearly seven weeks the confederates surrendered
battle of gettysburg;a battle of the american civil war (1863). the defeat of robert e. lee's invading confederate army was a major victory for the union
cure;a medicine or therapy that cures disease or relieve pain
wardership;the position of warder
apprisal;informing by words
hero;the principle character in a play or movie or novel or poem
sleet;partially melted snow (or a mixture of rain and snow)
anapest;a metrical unit with unstressed-unstressed-stressed syllables
battle of cunaxa;battle in 401 bc when the persian king artaxerxes ii defeated his younger brother who tried to usurp the throne
bottle collection;the collecting of bottles: 'bottle collection is a hobby of hers'
dry run;a practice session in preparation for a public performance of a play or speech or concert
country dance;a type of folk dance in which couples are arranged in sets or face one another in a line
war dance;a ceremonial dance performed before a battle or after a victory
music;punishment for one's actions. 'you have to face the music'. 'take your medicine'
detoxification;a treatment for addiction to drugs or alcohol intended to rid the body of the addictive substances
navigation;the work of a sailor
employment;the occupation for which you are paid. 'he is looking for a job'. 'a lot of people are out of work'
weight gaining;bodybuilding that increases muscle mass and body weight
disguise;the act of concealing the identity of something by modifying its appearance. 'he is a master of disguise'
stylostixis;(chinese) treatment of pain or disease by inserting the tips of needles at specific points on the skin
contrast;the act of distinguishing by comparing differences
debauch;a wild gathering involving excessive drinking and promiscuity
codification;the act of codifying. arranging is a systematic order
salerno;a battle in world war ii. the port was captured by us troops in september 1943
conversion;act of exchanging one type of money or security for another
daily double;a single bet on two horse races in the same day
discharge;the act of discharging a gun
post;the system whereby messages are transmitted via the post office
elopement;the act of running away with a lover (usually to get married)
greyhound racing;the sport of racing greyhounds
model;a representation of something (usually on a smaller scale)
bye;you advance to the next round in a tournament without playing an opponent. 'he had a bye in the first round'
bishopry;the office of bishop
disavowal;denial of any connection with or knowledge of
equitation;riding a horse as a sport
suprarenalectomy;surgical removal of one or both adrenal glands
sweat;use of physical or mental energy. hard work. 'he got an a for effort'. 'they managed only with great exertion'
proconsulship;the position of proconsul
snub;an instance of driving away or warding off
sermon;an address of a religious nature (usually delivered during a church service)
judgement;the determination by a court of competent jurisdiction on matters submitted to it
unlicensed gambling;unlicensed gambling is illegal in most jurisdictions
battle of the chemin des dames;a battle in world war i (may 1918). the germans tried to attack before the american numbers were too great to defeat. the tactical success of the germans proved to be a strategic failure
trash pickup;the collection and removal of garbage
persian gulf war;a war in which the us and its allies freed kuwait from iraqi invaders. 1990-1991
trapshooting;the sport of shooting at clay pigeons that are hurled upward in such a way as to simulate the flight of a bird
mercifulness;leniency and compassion shown toward offenders by a person or agency charged with administering justice. 'he threw himself on the mercy of the court'
line of duty;all that is normally required in some area of responsibility
exporting;the commercial activity of selling and shipping good to a foreign country
root crop;crop grown for its enlarged roots: e.g. beets. potatoes. turnips
inventory;making an itemized list of merchandise or supplies on hand. 'the inventory took two days'
philanthropy;voluntary promotion of human welfare
egress;the act of coming (or going) out. becoming apparent
electronic deception;the deliberate use of electromagnetic energy in a manner intended to convey misleading information
initiation;an act that sets in motion some course of events
presentation;formally making a person known to another or to the public
grapple;the act of engaging in close hand-to-hand combat. 'they had a fierce wrestle'. 'we watched his grappling and wrestling with the bully'
striptease;a form of entertainment in which a dancer undresses to music. 'she did a strip right in front of everyone'
purge;the act of clearing yourself (or another) from some stigma or charge
social intercourse;communication between individuals
high technology;a highly technical implementation. usually involving electronic hardware. 'automation replaces human workers by machines'
whiteout;an arctic atmospheric condition with clouds over snow produce a uniform whiteness and objects are difficult to see. occurs when the light reflected off the snow equals the light coming through the clouds
application;the work of applying something. 'the doctor prescribed a topical application of iodine'. 'a complete bleach requires several applications'. 'the surface was ready for a coating of paint'.
judgment in personam;a judgment rendered against an individual (or corporation) for the payment of money damages
scaling;the act of arranging in a graduated series
secretary of the interior;the position of the head of the department of the interior. 'the position of interior secretary was created in 1849'
stigmatization;the act of stigmatizing
precentorship;the position of precentor
weapon;a means of persuading or arguing. 'he used all his conversational weapons'
effort;a notable achievement: 'the book was her finest effort'a notable achievement: 'the book was her finest effort'
juggling;throwing and catching several objects simultaneously
fresh breeze;wind moving 19-24 knots. 5 on the beaufort scale
ice hockey;a game played on an ice rink by two opposing teams of 6 skaters each who try to knock a flat round puck into the opponents' goal with hockey sticks
battle of spotsylvania courthouse;a battle between the armies of grant and lee during the wilderness campaign
mobilisation;act of assembling and putting into readiness for war or other emergency: 'mobilization of the troops
reimposition;imposition again
motorcycling;riding a motorcycle
confirmation;a sacrament admitting a baptized person to full participation in the church
arterial blood gases;measurement of the ph level and the oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations in arterial blood. important in diagnosis of many respiratory diseases
hitting;a act of hitting one thing with another. 'repeated hitting raised a large bruise'. 'after three misses she finally got a hit'
pibroch;martial music with variations. for the scottish highlands bagpipe
synchronization;an adjustment that causes something to occur or recur in unison
festival;an organized series of acts and performances
electrical work;the craft of an electrician
fit;a sudden flurry of activity (often for no obvious reason). 'a burst of applause'. 'a fit of housecleaning'
manual labour;labor done with the hands
line triple;a triple resulting from a line drive
night stop;a break in a journey for the night
chancellorsville;a major battle in the american civil war (1863). the confederates under robert e. lee defeated the union forces under joseph hooker
devotion;commitment to some purpose. 'the devotion of his time and wealth to science'
base hit;the successful act of striking a baseball in such a way that the batter reaches base safely
circumscription;the act of circumscribing
golf lesson;a lesson in playing gold
rebound;the act of securing possession of rebounding basketball after a missed shot
metalwork;the activity of making things out of metal in a skillful manner
landing;the act of coming down to the earth (or other surface). 'the plane made a smoothe landing'. 'his landing on his feet was catlike'
sashay;a square dance figure. partners circle each other taking sideways steps
battle of fontenoy;a battle in 1745 in which the french army under marshal saxe defeated the anglo-allied army under the duke of cumberland
triangulation;a method of surveying. the area is divided into triangles and the length of one side and its angles with the other two are measured, then the lengths of the other sides can be calculated
fly ball;the act of hitting a baseball so that it flies high in the air
dramaturgy;the art of writing and producing plays
non involvement;withdrawing from the activities of a group
pastorate;the position of pastor
withholding;the act of holding back or keeping within your possession or control. 'i resented his withholding permission'. 'there were allegations of the withholding of evidence'
chinese chequers;a board game in which each player tries to move a set of marbles through a set of holes from one point of a six-pointed star to the opposite point
ejection;the act of expelling someone
october revolution;the coup d'etat in november 1917 that establish a soviet government
acrobatics;the gymnastic moves of an acrobat
insulin shock;the administration of sufficient insulin to induce convulsions and coma
palpation;a method of examination in which the examiner feels the size or shape or firmness or location of something (of body parts when the examiner is a health professional)
harvesting;"the gathering of a ripened crop"the gathering of a ripened crop
extreme unction;a catholic sacrament. a priest anoints a dying person with oil and prays for salvation
mechanism;technical aspects of doing something. 'mechanisms of communication'. 'the mechanics of prose style'
in fighting;boxing at close quarters
aegospotamos;a river in ancient thrace (now turkey). in the mouth of this river the spartan fleet under lysander destroyed the athenian fleet in the final battle of the peloponnesian war (404 bc)
morale building;anything that serves to increase morale. 'the sight of flowers every morning was my morale builder'
appropriation;a deliberate act of acquisition
saipan;us forces captured the island from the japanese in july 1944. it was an important air base until the end of world war ii
refuting;the act of determining that something is false
plowing;tilling the land with a plow. 'he hired someone to do the plowing for him'
inquisition;a severe interrogation
obtention;the act of obtaining
rail technology;the activity of designing and constructing and operating railroads
shove halfpenny;(british) a game in which coins or discs are slid by hand across a board toward a mark
drumming;the act of playing drums. 'he practiced his drumming several hours every day'
risk arbitrage;arbitrage involving risk. as in the simultaneous purchase of stock in a target company and sale of stock in its potential acquirer. if the takeover fails the arbitrageur may lose a great deal of money
sea bathing;bathing in the sea or ocean
crocheting;creating a garment of needlework
g jo;(chinese and japanese) treatment of symptoms by applying pressure with the fingers to specific pressure points on the body
anaerobic exercise;exercise that builds muscles through tension
gold rush;a large migration of people to a newly discovered gold field
crowd control;activity of controlling a crowd
brushup;practice intended to polish performance or refresh the memory
starvation;the act of starving. 'they were charged with the starvation of children in their care'
lordolatry;worship of a lord because of his rank or title
defibrillation;treatment by stopping fibrillation of heart muscles (usually by electric shock delivered by a defibrillator)
escapism;an inclination to retreat from unpleasant realities through diversion or fantasy. 'he escaped into romantic novels'. 'his alcohol problem was a form of escapism'
vigilantism;the actions of a vigilance committee in trying to enforce the laws
telling;an act of narration. 'he was the hero according to his own relation'. 'his endless recounting of the incident eventually became unbearable'
high jump;the act of participating in an athletic contest in which you try to jump as high as possible over a (horizontal) high bar
inspection;a formal or official examination. 'the platoon stood ready for inspection'
proration;the proproportional limitation of production or distribution of something (e.g. crude oil or natural gas) to some fractional part of the total capacity of each producer
longways;country dancing performed with couples in two long lines facing each other
merchandising;the exchange of goods for an agreed sum of money
word of mouth;gossip spread by spoken communication. 'the news of their affair was spread by word of mouth'
gaming;the act of playing for stakes in the hope of winning (including the payment of a price for a chance to win a prize). 'his gambling cost him a fortune'. 'there was heavy play at the blackjack table'
broad jump;the act of participating in an athletic contest in which you try to jump as far as possible with a running jump from a fixed mark
redemption;(christianity) the act of delivering from sin or saving from evil
excess;excessive indulgence. 'the child was spoiled by overindulgence'
burial;concealing something under the ground
buena vista;in 1847 us forces under zachary taylor defeated mexican forces under santa anna in the mexican war
stretching;exercise designed to extend the limbs and muscles to their full extent
disowning;refusal to acknowledge as one's own
homoeopathy;a method of treating disease with small amounts of remedies that, in large amounts in healthy people, produce symptoms similar to those being treated
trade wind;steady winds blowing from east to west above and below the equator. 'they rode the trade winds going west'
basketball game;a game played on a court by two opposing teams of 5 players. points are scored by throwing the basketball through an elevated horizontal hoop
fund raising campaign;a campaign to raise money for some cause
ageism;discrimination against middle-aged and elderly people
acoustic;a remedy for hearing loss or deafness
ministration;assistance in time of difficulty. 'the contributions provided some relief for the victims'
aeronautical engineering;the activity of designing and constructing aircraft
supplication;a prayer asking god's help as part of a religious service
nauch;an intricate traditional dance in india performed by professional dancing girls
rain shower;a brief period of precipitation. 'the game was interrupted by a brief shower'
canvassing;persuasion of voters in a political campaign
tattle;disclosing information or giving evidence about another
vocal music;music that is vocalized (as contrasted with instrumental music)
battle of pydna;a major victory by the romans over the macedonians in 168 bc. resulted in the downfall of the ancient macedonian kingdom
aspersion;the act of sprinkling water in baptism (rare)
multimedia;transmission that combine media of communication (text and graphics and sound etc.)
paper chase;an outdoor game. the hares start off on a long run scattering bits of paper (the scent) and the hounds try to catch them before they reach a designated spot
bait casting;the single-handed rod casting of a relatively heavy (artificial) bait
suit;(law) a comprehensive term for any proceeding in a court of law whereby an individual seeks a legal remedy. 'the family brought suit against the landlord'
appeal;a legal proceeding in which the appellant resorts to a higher court for the purpose of obtaining a review of a lower court decision and a reversal of the lower court's judgment or the granting of a new trial
common measure;the usual (iambic) meter of a ballad
formularizing;the act of formulation something
header;(soccer) the act of hitting the ball with your head
exchange;reciprocal transfer of equivalent sums of money especially the currencies of different countries: 'he earns his living from the interchange of currency'
basketball;a game played on a court by two opposing teams of 5 players. points are scored by throwing the basketball through an elevated horizontal hoop
sun bathing;immersing the body in sunlight
gin;a form of rummy in which a player can go out if the cards remaining in their hand total less than 10 points
debate;the formal presentation of and opposition to a stated proposition (usually followed by a vote)
installment;a part of a broadcast serial
angulation;the precise measurement of angles
notification;a request for payment. 'the notification stated the grace period and the penalties for defaulting'
3d;a movie with images having three dimensional form or appearance
military campaign;several related operations aimed at achieving a particular goal (usually within geographical and temporal constraints)
purse string operation;a surgical procedure in which a suture is used to close the cervix in a pregnant woman. is performed when the cervix has failed to retain previous pregnancies
review;a formal or official examination. 'the platoon stood ready for inspection'
reconnaissance in force;an offensive operation designed to discover or test the enemy's strength (or to obtain other information)
ct;a method of examining body organs by scanning them with x rays and using a computer to construct an image
toying;playful behavior intended to arouse sexual interest
full nelson;a wrestling hold in which the holder puts both arms under the opponent's arms and exerts pressure on the back of the neck (illegal in amateur wrestling)
villain;the principle bad character in a work of fiction
enactment;acting the part of a character on stage
reconciliation;getting two things to correspond. 'the reconciliation of his checkbook and the bank statement'
clemency;good weather with comfortable temperatures
lenience;lightening a penalty or excusing from a chore by judges or parents or teachers
mechanisation;a highly technical implementation. usually involving electronic hardware. 'automation replaces human workers by machines'
preparation fire;fire delivered on a target in preparation for an assault
business deal;a particular instance of buying or selling. 'it was a package deal'. 'i had no further trade with him'. 'he's a master of the business deal'
encryption;the activity of converting from plain text into code
procurement;the act of getting possession of something. 'he was responsible for the procurement of materials and supplies'
judicial proceeding;the institution of a sequence of steps by which legal judgments are invoked
zone fire;artillery or mortar fire delivered in a constant direction at several quadrant elevations
offence;the action of attacking the enemy
war of the grand alliance;an aggressive war waged by louis xiv against spain and the empire and england and holland and other states (1689-1697)
calamine lotion;a liquid preparation containing calamine. used to treat itching or mild skin irritations
observance;conformity with law or custom or practice etc.
flick;a form of entertainment that enacts a story by a sequence of images giving the illusion of continuous movement. 'they went to a movie every saturday night'. 'the film was shot on location'
battle of wake island;in december 1941 the island was captured by the japanese after a gallant last-ditch stand by a few hundred us marines
coughing up;the act of expelling (food or phlegm) by coughing
haymaking;cutting grass and curing it to make hay
underproduction;inadequate production or less than expected
proposal;the act of making a proposal. 'they listened to her proposal'
final decision;a judgment disposing of the case before the court. after the judgment (or an appeal from it) is rendered all that remains is to enforce the judgment
dribbling;the propulsion of a ball by repeated taps or kicks
cup of tea;an activity that you like or at which you are superior. 'chemistry is not my cup of tea'. 'his bag now is learning to play golf'. 'marriage was scarcely his dish'
atm;a means of digital communications that is capable of very high speeds. suitable for transmission of images or voice or video as well as data. 'atm is used for both lan and wan'
diagramming;providing a chart or outline of a system
hymnody;the act of singing psalms or hymns
report;the act of informing by verbal report. 'he heard reports that they were causing trouble'. 'by all accounts they were a happy couple'
mobilisation;act of assembling or organizing and making ready for use or action: 'mobiliation of the country's economic resources'. 'marshaling public support'
fastball;a baseball thrown with maximum velocity. 'he swung late on the fastball'. 'he showed the batters nothing but smoke'
self help;the act of helping or improving yourself without relying on anyone else
bond trading;trading in bonds (usually by a broker on the floor of an exchange)
vivisection;operating on living animals especially in scientific research
absolution;formal redemption as pronounced by a priest in the sacrament of penance
curtain raiser;a short play presented before the main play
kennesaw mountain;battle of the american civil war (1864). union forces under sherman were repulsed by confederate troops under johnston
alliteration;use of the same consonant at the beginning of each stressed syllable in a line of verse: 'around the rock the ragged rascal ran'
protectorship;the position of protector
flip;a dive in which the diver somersaults before entering the water
onrush;the beginning of an offensive. 'the attack began at dawn'
roping;capturing cattle or horses with a lasso
categorization;the grouping of things by classes or categories
impoundment;placing private property in the custody of an officer of the law
territorialization;the act of organizing as a territory
echo;a reply that repeats what has just been said
vasectomy;surgical removal of all or part of the vas deferens (usually as a means of sterilization)
squeaker;something achieved (or escaped) by a narrow margin
pilot film;a program exemplifying a contemplated series. intended to attract sponsors
escape;an avoidance of danger or difficulty. 'that was a narrow escape'
angioplasty;an operation to repair a damaged blood vessel or unblock a coronary artery
burst;rapid simultaneous discharge of firearms. 'our fusillade from the left flank caught them by surprise'
battle of monmouth court house;a battle during the american revolution (1778) that ended with the withdrawal of the british forces
lecture demonstration;presentation of an example of what the lecturer is discoursing about
empowerment;the act of authorizing
cross country jumping;riding horses across country over obstructions to demonstrate horsemanship
propping up;the act of propping up with shores
maneuver;an action aimed at evading an enemy
public debate;the formal presentation of and opposition to a stated proposition (usually followed by a vote)
difficulty;an effort that is inconvenient. 'i went to a lot of trouble'. 'he won without any trouble'. 'had difficulty walking'. 'finished the test only with great difficulty'
spelaeology;the pastime of exploring caves
practice of medicine;the learned profession that is mastered by graduate training in a medical school and that is devoted to preventing or alleviating or curing diseases and injuries. 'he studied medicine at harvard'
restoration;getting something back again. 'upon the restitution of the book to its rightful owner the child was given a tongue lashing'
fight;the act of fighting. any contest or struggle. 'a fight broke out at the hockey game'. 'there was fighting in the streets'
clog;a dance performed while wearing clogs. has heavy stamping steps
share out;a distribution in shares
plea;an answer indicating why a suit should be dismissed
coding;act of writing in code
uranalysis;the chemical analysis of urine (for medical diagnosis)
pitch;the throwing of a baseball by a pitcher to a batter
extracurricular activity;educational activities not falling within the scope of the regular curriculum
downsizing;the reduction of expenditures in order to become financial stable
winnowing;the act of winnowing
framing;formulation of the plans and important details. 'the framing of judicial decrees'
deliberate defence;a defensive organized before contact is made with the enemy and while time for organization is available. usually includes a fortified zone (with pillboxes) and communication systems
crossfire;fire from two or more points so that the lines of fire cross
slot;a job in an organization or hierarchy. 'he ocupied a post in the treasury'
phone in;a program in which the audience participates by telephone
digital communication;electronic transmission of information that has been encoded digitally (as for storage and processing by computers)
direction;a formal statement of a command or injunction to do something. 'the judge's charge to the jury'
night game;a game played under artificial illumination at night
synchronisation;coordinating by causing to indicate the same time. 'the synchronization of their watches was an important preliminary'
three card monte;a gambling card game of spanish origin. 3 or 4 cards are dealt face up and players bet that one of the will be matched before the others as the cards are dealt from the pack one at a time
general election;a national or state election. candidates are chosen in all constituencies
reinforcement;an act performed to strengthen approved behavior
telephotography;transmission and reproduction of photographs and charts and pictures over a distance
nonresistance;group refusal to resort to violence even in defense against violence
adjustment;the act of adjusting something to match a standard
means;how a result is obtained or an end is achieved. 'a means of communcation'. 'an example is the best agency of instruction'. 'the true way to success'
truckling;the act of obeying (especially in a humble manner)
apache devil dance;a ritual dance of the apache indians
countertenor;the highest adult male singing voice
deception;an illusory feat. considered magical by naive observers
etching;making engraved or etched plates and printing designs from them
cast;a violent throw
reinforcement;a military operation (often involving new supplies of men and materiel) to strengthen a military force or aid in the performance of its mission. 'they called for artillery support'
exportation;the commercial activity of selling and shipping good to a foreign country
quotient verdict;an improper and unacceptable kind of compromise verdict
repudiation;rejecting as invalid
lap choly;removal of the gall bladder through small punctures in the abdomen to permit the insertion of a laparoscope and surgical instruments
squat;exercising by repeatedly assuming a squatting position. strengthens the leg muscles
credit;educational recognition that a course of studies has been successfully completed
mercurial ointment;an ointment containing mercury
signals intelligence;intelligence information gathered from communications intelligence or electronics intelligence or telemetry intelligence
contract;a variety of bridge in which the bidder receives points toward game only for the number of tricks he bid
stomp;a dance involving a rhythmical stamping step
computed axial tomography;a method of examining body organs by scanning them with x rays and using a computer to construct an image
collaboration;act of working jointly: 'they worked either in collaboration or independently'
telling;informing by words
romanticization;the act of indulging in sentiment
mooring;a act of securing an arriving vessel with ropes or anchors
medium;an intervening substance through which signals can travel as a means for communication
spinal fusion;correction of an unstable part of the spine by joining two or more vertebrae. usually done surgically but sometimes done by traction or immobilization
actinotherapy;the treatment of disease (especially cancer) by exposure to radiation
exhibition;the act of exhibiting. 'a remarkable exhibition of musicianship'
nursing;nourishing at the breast
strategic intelligence;intelligence that is required for forming policy and military plans at national and international levels
idol worship;the worship of idols. the worship of images that are not god
advertising campaign;an organized program of advertisements
waterspout;a heavy rain
hearing;the act of hearing attentively. 'you can learn a lot by just listening'. 'they make good music--you should give them a hearing'
importunity;insistent begging
eye rhyme;an imperfect rhyme (e.g., 'love' and 'move')
betrothal;a mutual promise to marry
cannae;hannibal defeated the romans in 216 bc
breeze;a slight wind (usually refreshing). 'the breeze was cooled by the lake'
endorsement;a speech seconding a motion. 'do i hear a second?'
pushball;a game using a leather-covered ball 6 feet in diameter. the two side try to push it across the opponents' goal
internment;the act of confining someone in a prison (or as if in a prison)
carillon;playing a set of bells that are (usually) hung in a tower
effacement;withdrawing into the background. making yourself inconspicuous
hockey game;a game played on an ice rink by two opposing teams of 6 skaters each who try to knock a flat round puck into the opponents' goal with hockey sticks
assertiveness training;a method of psychotherapy that reinforces you for stating negative and positive feelings directly
pageantry;an elaborate representation of scenes from history etc. usually involves a parade with rich costumes
committal;the official act of consigning a person to a prison (or mental hospital)
printmaking;artistic design and manufacture of prints as woodcuts or silkscreens
figure skating;ice skating where the skates trace outlines of selected figures
language lesson;a period of instruction learning a language
singles;tennis played with one person on each side
equalizer;a score that makes the match even
actinometry;measuring the intensity of radiation (especially of the sun's rays)
buffoonery;acting like a clown or buffoon
granicus;the battle in which alexander won his first major victory against the persians (334 bc)
trade;a particular instance of buying or selling. 'it was a package deal'. 'i had no further trade with him'. 'he's a master of the business deal'
crab;a stroke of the oar that either misses the water or digs too deeply. 'he caught a crab and lost the race'
steering;the act of setting and holding a course. 'a new council was installed under the direction of the king'
experimentation;the act of conducting a controlled test or investigation
lull;a period of calm weather. 'there was a lull in the storm'
rigmarole;a long and complicated and confusing procedure. 'all that academic rigmarole was a waste of time'
all fours;card games in which points are won for taking the high or low or jack or game
whimper;a complaint uttered in a plaintive whining way
service;the performance of duties by a waiter or servant. 'that restaurant has excellent service'
ball game;a game played with a bat and ball between two teams of 9 players. teams take turns at bat trying to score run
proscription;the act of banishing someone
church service;a service conducted in a church. 'don't be late for church'
instrumentation;the act of providing or using the instruments needed for some implementation
intelligence;the operation of gathering information about an enemy
mouse click;depression of a button on a computer mouse: 'a click on the right button for example'
spending;the act of spending or disbursing money
pitch;the action or manner of throwing something. 'his pitch fell short and his hat landed on the floor'
hemodialysis;dialysis of the blood to remove toxic substances or metabolic wastes from the bloodstream. used in the case of kidney failure
public violence;a public act of violence by an unruly mob
constructive eviction;action by a landlord that compels a tenant to leave the premises (as by rendering the premises unfit for occupancy). no physical expulsion or legal process is involved
break;(tennis) a score consisting of winning a game when your opponent was serving. 'he was up two breaks in the second set'
co optation;the act of appointing summarily (with or without the appointee's consent)
grappling;the act of engaging in close hand-to-hand combat. 'they had a fierce wrestle'. 'we watched his grappling and wrestling with the bully'
kung fu;a chinese martial art. combines principles of karate and judo
conviviality;boisterous celebration
chinook wind;a warm dry wind blowing down the e slopes of the rockies
joint venture;a venture by a partnership or conglomerate designed to share risk or expertise: 'a joint venture between the film companies to produce tv shows'
orgasm;the moment of most intense pleasure in sexual intercourse
exposure;presentation to view in an open or public manner. 'the exposure of his anger was shocking'
coup;a brilliant and notable success
floorshow;a series of acts at a night club
baby;a project of personal concern to someone. 'this project is his baby'
relegating;authorizing subordinates to make certain decisions
study;a detailed critical inspection
custodianship;the position of custodian
stage;(usually 'the stage'). the theater as a profession. 'an early movie simply showed a long kiss by two actors of the contemporary stage'
showing;something shown to the public. 'the museum had many exhibits of oriental art'
comb;the act of drawing a comb through hair. 'his hair needed a comb'
horseplay;rowdy or boisterous play
recapture;the act of taking something back
direct primary;a primary where voters directly select the candidates who will run for office
transference;transferring ownership
detail;extended treatment of particulars. 'the essay contained too much detail'
light breeze;wind moving 4-7 knots. 2 on the beaufort scale
rainmaking;activity intended to produce rain
tarantella;a lively whirling italian dance for two persons
male chauvinism;activity indicative of belief in the superiority of men over women
move;the act of deciding to do something. 'he didn't make a move to help'. 'his first move was to hire a lawyer'
affirmation;the act of affirming or asserting or stating something
exercise;systematic training by multiple repetitions. 'practice makes perfect'
scat singing;singing jazz. the singer substitutes nonsense syllables for the words of the song and tries to sound like a musical instrument
normalization;the imposition of a standard
moneymaking;the act of making money (and accumulating wealth)
countershot;a return shot. a retaliatory shot
certification;the act of certifying
melting;warm weather following a freeze. snow and ice melt
stargazing;observation of the stars
battle of the ardennes bulge;battle during world war ii. in december 1945 von rundstedt launched a powerful counteroffensive in the ardennes forest that caught the allies by surprise
exercise set;several exercises intended to be done in series. 'he did four sets of the incline bench press'
scorcher;an extremely hot day
shelling;the heavy fire of artillery to saturate an area rather than hit a specific target. 'they laid down a barrage in front of the advancing troops'
bandaging;the act of applying a bandage
decompression;restoring compressed information to its normal form for use or display
bodybuilding;exercise that builds muscles through tension
interlude;a brief show (music or dance etc) performed between the sections of another performance
parlor game;a game suitable for playing in a parlor
glare;an angry stare
respect;an courteous expression (by word or deed) of esteem or regard. 'his deference to her wishes was very flattering'. 'be sure to give my respects to the dean'
occupational therapy;the therapeutic use of crafts and hobbies. especially for the rehabilitation of emotionally disturbed patients
attraction;an entertainment that is offered to the public
gale;a strong wind moving 45-90 knots. force 7 to 10 on beaufort scale
auto da fe;the burning to death of heretics (as during the spanish inquisition)
entree;the act of entering. 'she made a graceful entree into the ballroom'
organization;the activity or result of distributing or disposing persons or things properly or methodically. 'in this new organization the container is much smaller'
record;the sum of recognized accomplishments. 'the lawyer has a good record'
bolivia;a form of canasta in which sequences can be melded
haemodialysis;dialysis of the blood to remove toxic substances or metabolic wastes from the bloodstream. used in the case of kidney failure
bust up;a serious quarrel (especially one that ends a friendship)
retailing;the activities involved in selling commodities directly to consumers
judgement of dismissal;a judgment disposing of the matter without a trial
spare;a score in tenpins. knocking down all ten after rolling two balls
fire control;preparation for the delivery of shellfire on a target
running;the act of administering or being in charge of something. 'he has responsibility for the running of two companies at the same time'
rummy;a card game based on collecting sets and sequences. the winner is the first to meld all their cards
cannon fire;fire delivered by artillery
recessional march;a march to be played for processions
puking;the act of ejecting the contents of the stomach through the mouth
supervision;management by overseeing the performance or operation of a person or group
distributed fire;fire dispersed so as to engage effectively an area target
fisticuffs;a fight with bare fists
assignation;a secret rendezvous (especially between lovers)
intelligence test;a psychometric test of intelligence. 'they used to think that intelligence is what an intelligence test tests'
throw in;act or instance of throwing a ball in to put it into play
military drill;training in marching and the use of weapons
tarantelle;a lively whirling italian dance for two persons
nourishing;the act of supplying food and nourishment
charge;request for payment of a debt. 'they submitted their charges at the end of each month'
line double;a double resulting from a line drive
self punishment;punishment inflicted on yourself
calisthenic exercise;light exercise designed to promote general fitness
burying;concealing something under the ground
quiz program;a game show in which contestants answer questions
hagiolatry;worship of saints
toehold;a wrestling hold in which the toe is held and the leg is twisted against the joints
advertizing;the business of drawing public attention to goods and services
ichthyolatry;worship of fish
trick;an illusory feat. considered magical by naive observers
venography;roentgenographic examination of veins
tiddlywinks;a game in which players try to flip plastic disks into a cup by pressing them on the side sharply with a larger disk
distribution;the act of distributing or spreading or apportioning
prank;acting like a clown or buffoon
false imprisonment;confinement without legal authority
fight;a boxing match. 'the fight was on television last night'
permit;the act of giving a formal (usually written) authorization
distribution;the commercial activity of transporting and selling goods from a producer to a consumer
care delivery;the provision of medical care
uncovering;the act of discovering something
inventory control;coordination and supervision of supply as well as storage and distribution and recording of materials to maintain adequate quantities for current needs
draughts;a checkerboard game for two players who each have 12 pieces. the object is to jump over and so capture the opponent's pieces
repulse;an instance of driving away or warding off
extrication;the act of releasing by untangling or unsnarling something
quarrying;the extraction of building stone or slate from an open surface quarry
integration;the action of incorporating a racial or religious group into a community
barrage jamming;electronic jamming over a wide range of frequencies simultaneously
humoring;the act of indulging or gratifying a desire
paracentesis;centesis of the belly to remove fluid for diagnosis
exhumation;the act of digging up something (especially a corpse) that has been buried
precondition;a condition that is a prerequisite
repelling;a successful stand
vignette;brief description
bear hug;a wrestling hold with arms locked tightly around the opponent
skittles;bowling down an alley at a target of nine wooden pins
eldership;the office of elder
insulin shock therapy;the administration of sufficient insulin to induce convulsions and coma
chapultepec;a victory by american over mexican forces in the mexican war (1847)
dramatisation;a dramatic representation
say so;one chap's arbitrary assertion
ghost dance;a religious dance of native americans looking for communication with the dead
battle of ipsus;a battle between the successors of alexander the great (301 bc). lysimachus and seleucus defeated antigonus and demetrius
facing;providing something with a surface of a different material
hearing;an investigation (usually by a court of law)
airplane maneuver;an evasive maneuver by an aircraft
job;the performance of a piece of work. 'she did an outstanding job as ophelia'. 'he gave it up as a bad job'
battledore;an ancient racket game
stay;the act of stopping (usually stopping motion). 'the heart was in arrest'. 'war caused a check in the company's growth'. 'the momentary stay enabled him to escape the blow'
apache dance;a violent fast dance in french vaudeville (an apache is a member of the french underworld)
polishing;the work of making something shine by polishing it. 'he performed the menial chore of shining shoes'
muster;compulsory military service
discard;getting rid something that is regarded as useless or undesirable
reclamation;rescuing from error and returning to a rightful course
musical comedy;a play or film whose action and dialogue is interspersed with singing and dancing
water polo;a game played in a swimming pool by two teams of swimmers who try to throw an inflated ball into the opponents' goal
refresher;a course that reviews and updates a topic for those who have not kept abreast of developments
relinquishing;a verbal act of relinquishing
positioning;the act of putting something in a certain place or location
looking;the act of searching visually
idolization;the act of admiring strongly
fifth crusade;a crusade under papal control from 1218 to 1221 that achieved military victories but failed when dissension arose over accepting the terms they had been offered
rock;a type of dance music originating in the 1950s. a blend of rhythm-and-blues with country-and-western
accountancy;the occupation of maintaining and auditing records and preparing financial reports for a business
steam bath;you sweat in a steam room before getting a rubdown and cold shower
tune up;adjustments made to an engine to improve its performance
garbage pickup;the collection and removal of garbage
calm air;wind moving at less than 1 knot. 0 on the beaufort scale
invasion;the act of invading. the act of an army that invades for conquest or plunder
mesmerism;the act of inducing hypnosis
treatment;the management of someone or something. 'the handling of prisoners' or 'the treatment of water sewage'. 'the right to equal treatment in the criminal justice system'
sounding;the act of measuring depth of water (usually with a sounding line)
dispatch;the act of sending off something
segregation;the act of segregating or sequestering
harmattan;a dusty wind from the sahara that blows toward the w coast of africa during the winter
display;behavior that makes your feelings public. 'a display of emotion'
americanization;assimilation into american culture
strike;a group's refusal to work in protest against low pay or bad work conditions. 'the strike lasted more than a month before it was settled'
combat;the act of fighting. any contest or struggle. 'a fight broke out at the hockey game'. 'there was fighting in the streets'
caper;a ludicrous or grotesque act done for fun and amusement
bakery;creating bread or pastry in an oven
mechanics;technical aspects of doing something. 'mechanisms of communication'. 'the mechanics of prose style'
foreign exchange;the system by which one currency is exchanged for another. enables international transactions to take place
aid;the work of caring for or attending to someone or something. 'no medical care was required'. 'the old car needed constant attention'
forwarding;the act of sending on to an ultimate destination. 'the forwarding of mail to a new address is done automatically'
battle of trafalgar;a naval battle in 1805 off the sw coast of spain. the french and spanish fleets were defeated by the english under nelson (who was mortally wounded)
spoil;the act of stripping and taking by force
express;rapid transport of goods
engagement;a mutual promise to marry
contemplation;a long and thoughtful observation
expiation;the act of atoning for sin or wrongdoing
regularization;the imposition of a standard
santiago;a naval battle in the spanish-american war (1898). the us fleet bottled up the spanish ships in the harbor of santiago de cuba and destroyed them when they tried to escape
assist;the activity of contributing to the fulfillment of a need or furtherance of an effort or purpose: 'he gave me an assist with the housework'. 'could not walk without assistance'. 'rescue party went to their aid'. 'offered his help in unloading'
fiduciary duty;the legal duty of a fiduciary to act in the best interests of the beneficiary
two baser;a base hit on which the batter stops safely at second base. ' he hit a double to deep centerfield'
initial offering;a corporation's first offer to sell stock to the public
tilt;a dispute where there is strong disagreement. 'they were involved in a violent argument'
placer mining;mining valuable minerals from a placer by washing or dredging
spectroscopic analysis;the use of spectroscopes to analyze spectra
cognovit judgement;a judgment entered after a written confession by the debtor without the expense of ordinary legal proceedings
trading;buying or selling securities or commodities
judicature;the administration of law. the act of determining rights and assigning rewards or punishments. 'justice deferred is justice denied'
tetherball;a game with two players who use rackets to strike a ball that is tethered to the top of a pole. the object is to wrap the string around the pole
drawing lots;making a chance decision by using lots (straws or pebbles etc.) that are thrown or drawn
fixation;(histology) the preservation and hardening of a tissue sample to retain as nearly as possible the same relations they had in the living body
mendicancy;a solicitation for money or food (especially in the street by an apparently penniless person)
rough and tumble;disorderly fighting
tweak;a squeeze with the fingers
transportation;the commercial enterprise of transporting goods and materials
backtalk;an impudent or insolent rejoinder. 'don't give me any of your sass'
stewardship;the position of steward
war of the spanish succession;a general war in europe (1701-1714) that broke out when louis xiv of france installed his grandson philip on the throne of spain. england and holland hoped to limit louis' power
visit;the act of going to see some person or place or thing for a short time. 'he dropped by for a short visit'
cartwheel;acrobatic revolutions with the body turned sideways and the arms and legs outstretched like the spokes of a wheel
counterfire;fire intended to neutralize or destroy enemy weapons
shirodkar s operation;a surgical procedure in which a suture is used to close the cervix in a pregnant woman. is performed when the cervix has failed to retain previous pregnancies
composing;musical creation
agincourt;a battle in which english longbowmen under henry v decisively defeated a much larger french army in 1415
wage freeze;the fixing of wages at a given level
hegira;a journey by a large group to escape from a hostile environment
search and rescue mission;a military rescue mission to search for survivors and to rescue them
rime;correspondence in the sounds of two or more lines (esp. final sounds)
gig;a booking for musicians. 'they played a gig in new jersey'
resolution;finding a solution to a problem
enterprise;a purposeful or industrious undertaking (especially one that requires effort or boldness). 'he had doubts about the whole enterprise'
indirect discourse;a report of a discourse in which deictic terms are modified appropriately (e.g., 'he said 'i am a fool'' would be modified to 'he said he is a fool')
homecoming;a coming to or returning home. 'on the eve of his return to australia we gave him a goodbye party'
adoration;the act of admiring strongly
desperate measure;desperate actions taken as a means to an end. 'he had to resort to desperate measures'
sheet metal work;the craft of doing sheet metal work (as in ventilation systems)
comint;technical and intelligence information derived from foreign communications by other than the intended recipients
composition;the act of creating written works. 'writing was a form of therapy for him'. 'it was a matter of disputed authorship'
vanishing;suddenly disappearing from sight
reconnaissance;the act of reconnoitring (especially to gain information about an enemy or potential enemy)
artifice;a deceptive maneuver (especially to avoid capture)
speaking;delivering an address to a public audience. 'the people came to see the candidates and hear the speaking'
wiretap;the act of tapping a telephone or telegraph line to get information
vigil;a devotional watch (especially on the eve of a religious festival)
magic bullet;a drug or therapy or preventive that cures or prevents a disease: 'there is no magic bullet against cancer
impulsion;the act of applying force suddenly. 'the impulse knocked him over'
incitement;the act of exhorting. an earnest attempt at persuasion
sentry go;the duty of serving as a sentry. 'he was on guard that night'
funding;the act of financing
conservation;the preservation and careful management of the environment and of natural resources
ouster;a wrongful dispossession
endorsement;the act of endorsing
load shedding;cutting off the electric current on certain lines when the demand becomes greater than the supply
farewell;the act of departing politely. 'he disliked long farewells'. 'he took his leave'
war between the states;us history: civil war between the north and the south. 1861-1865
name part;the role of the character after whom the play is named
dressing;the activity of getting dressed
narration;an account describing incidents or events. 'after dinner he told the children stories of his adventures'
spoliation;the act of stripping and taking by force
swoop;a very rapid raid
talk of the town;idle gossip or rumor. 'there has been talk about you lately'
dole;(great britain) money received from the state
faith healing;care provided through prayer and faith in god
battle of cowpens;battle in the american revolutionary war. americans under daniel morgan defeated the british
overkill;any effort that seems to go farther than would be necessary to achieve its goal
pas de deux;a dance for two people (usually a ballerina and a danseur noble)
organisation;the act of organizing a business or business-related activity. 'he was brought in to supervise the organization of a new department'
film editing;the activity of selecting the scenes to be shown and putting them together to create a film
electronic warfare;military action involving the use of electromagnetic energy to determine or exploit or reduce or prevent hostile use of the electromagnetic spectrum
lithography;the act of making a lithographic print
shagging;a lively dance step consisting of hopping on each foot in turn
tobogganing;riding on a long light sled with low handrails
recession;a act of becoming more distant
intelligence operation;the operation of gathering information about an enemy
cockfighting;participation in the sport of matching gamecocks in a cockfight
time and motion study;an analysis of a specific job in an effort to find the most efficient method in terms of time and effort
claim;demand for something as rightful or due: 'they struck in support of their claim for a shorter work day'
controllership;the position of controller
cross question;a question asked in cross-examination
mark;something that exactly succeeds in achieving its goal. 'the new advertising campaign was a bell ringer'. 'scored a bull's_eye'. 'hit the mark'
snap;any activity that is easy to do. 'marketing this product will be no picnic'
battle of bunker hill;the first important battle of the american war of independence (1775). the british defeated the colonial forces
indication;the act of indicating
underexposure;the act of exposing film to too little light or for too short a time
draught;a current of air (usually coming into a room or vehicle)
bye election;a special election between regular elections
saraband;a stately court dance of the 17th and 18th centuries. in slow time
transmittal;the act of sending a message. causing a message to be transmitted
embodiment;giving concrete form to an abstract concept
pacification;the act of pacifying
forlorn hope;a hopeless or desperate enterprise
counterbattery fire;fire delivered to neutralize or destroy indirect fire weapon systems
simulation;the act of simulating
cheoplasty;molding artificial teeth using low-fusing metals or alloys
sit in;a form of civil disobedience in which demonstrators occupy seats and refuse to move
correspondence course;a course offered (by mail) by a correspondence school
revue;a variety show with topical sketches and songs and dancing and comedians
off speed pitch;a baseball thrown with little velocity when the batter is expecting a fastball
scouring;moving over territory to search for something. 'scouring the entire area revealed nothing'
referendum;a legislative act is referred for final approval to a popular vote by the electorate
service;(common law) the acts performed by an english feudal tenant for the benefit of his lord which formed the consideration for the property granted to him
forsaking;the act of giving something up
part;the actions and activities assigned to or required or expected of a person or group: 'the function of a teacher'. 'the government must do its part' or 'play its role' or 'do its duty'
onanism;a contraceptive method in which coitus is initiated but the penis is deliberately withdrawn before ejaculation
bad weather;weather unsuitable for outdoor activities
caper;gay or light-hearted recreational activity for diversion or amusement. 'it was all done in play'. 'their frolic in the surf threatened to become ugly'
purchasing;the act of buying. 'buying equipment for the trip took several hours'
stations of the cross;(roman catholic church) a devotion consisting of 14 prayers before the 14 stations of the cross
judgement in personam;a judgment rendered against an individual (or corporation) for the payment of money damages
walk;(baseball) an advance to first base by a batter who receives four balls. 'he worked the picher for a base on balls'
thaumatolatry;worship of miracles
rendition;a performance of a musical composition or a dramatic role etc.
prepayment;payment in advance
field work;an investigation carried out in the field rather than in a laboratory or headquarters
tooth;a means of enforcement. 'the treaty had no teeth in it'
tactual exploration;a method of examination in which the examiner feels the size or shape or firmness or location of something (of body parts when the examiner is a health professional)
radiation therapy;the treatment of disease (especially cancer) by exposure to radiation
collyrium;a solution used as a cleanser for the eyes
fruition;something that is realized. 'the victory was the realization of a whole year's work'
toe dancing;a dance performed on tiptoe
aim;the action of directing something at an object. 'he took aim and fired'
project;any piece of work
rocket firing;the launching of a rocket or missile under its own power
coquetry;playful behavior intended to arouse sexual interest
watch night;a devotional service (especially on new year's eve)
tribuneship;the position of tribune
remuneration;the act of paying for goods or services or to recompense for losses. 'adequate remuneration for his work'
freeze;weather cold enough to cause freezing
participation;sharing the activities of a group. 'the teacher tried to increase his students' engagement in class activities'
care;the work of caring for or attending to someone or something. 'no medical care was required'. 'the old car needed constant attention'
slip;a flight maneuver. aircraft slides sideways in the air
puff of air;a short light gust of air
rumor;gossip (usually a mixture of truth and untruth) passed around by word of mouth
whipping;the act of overcoming or outdoing
manoeuvering;a move made to gain a tactical end
providing;the activity of supplying or providing something"the activity of supplying or providing something"
induction;an act that sets in motion some course of events
carbon 14 dating;a chemical analysis used to determine the age of organic materials based on their content of the radioisotope carbon 14
strip show;a form of erotic entertainment in which a person gradually undresses to music
performance;an act or process or manner of functioning or operating: 'the power of its engine determines its operation': 'the plane's performance in high winds'
requiescat;a prayer for the repose of the soul of a dead person
bull s eye;in target shooting: a score made by hitting the center of the target. 'in repeated sets of five shots his numbers of bull's-eyes varied'
divine service;the act of public worship following prescribed rules. 'the sunday service'
port arthur;a battle in the chino-japanese war (1894). japanese captured the port and fortifications from the chinese
contention;a dispute where there is strong disagreement. 'they were involved in a violent argument'
close call;something achieved (or escaped) by a narrow margin
electronic counter countermeasures;electronic warfare undertaken to insure effective friendly use of the electromagnetic spectrum in spite of the enemy's use of electronic warfare
prayer service;a service at which people sing hymns and pray together
virginia reel;an american country dance which starts with the couples facing each other in two lines
stead;the function or position properly or customarily occupied or served by another: 'can you go in my stead?'. 'took his place'. 'in lieu of'
flood control;(engineering) act or technique of trying to control rivers with dams etc to minimize occurrence of floods
military mission;an operation that is assigned by a higher headquarters. 'the planes were on a bombing mission'
offense;the action of attacking the enemy
leyte;a battle in world war ii. the return of us troops to the philippines began with landings on leyte island in october 1944. first use of kamikaze aircraft by the japanese
rag;music with a syncopated melody (usually for the piano)
nonappearance;failure to appear (especially as at court)
layover;a brief stay in the course of a journey. 'they made a stopover to visit their friends'
counsellorship;the position of counselor
discrimination;unfair treatment of a person or group on the basis of prejudice
confiscation;seizure by the government
collaboration;act of cooperating traitorously with an enemy
evil eye;a look that is believed to have the power of inflicting harm
carrying into action;the act of doing something successfully. using knowledge as distinguished from merely possessing it. 'experience generally improves performance'
laying on of hands;the application of a faith healer's hands to the patient's body
singing;disclosing information or giving evidence about another
validating;the act of finding or testing the truth of something
selling;the exchange of goods for an agreed sum of money
call;a brief social visit: 'senior professors' wives no longer make afternoon calls on newcomers'
medical;a thorough physical examination. includes a variety of tests depending on the age and sex and health of the person
ransacking;a thorough search for something (often causing disorder or confusion). 'he gave the attic a good rummage but couldn't find his skis'
giving up;the act of forsaking
venture;any venturesome undertaking especially one with an uncertain outcome
fracas;noisy quarrel
daubing;the application of plaster
baking;creating bread or pastry in an oven
propagation;the spreading of something (a belief or practice) into new regions
recreation;an activity that diverts or amuses or stimulates
contention;the act of competing as for profit or a prize: 'the teams were in fierce contention for first place'
free trade;international trade free of government interference
disestablishment;the act terminating an established state of affairs. especially ending a connection with the church of england
scuffle;disorderly fighting
catechesis;oral religious instruction (as before baptism or confirmation)
tag;touching a player in a game
high mass;a solemn and elaborate mass with music
clasp;the act of grasping. 'he released his clasp on my arm'. 'he has a strong grip for an old man'. 'she kept a firm hold on the railing'
conformation;acting according to certain accepted standards
observation;a patient look
sixth crusade;a crusade from 1228 to 1229 led by the holy roman emperor frederick ii who was therefore excommunicated by the pope. by negotiation frederick was able to crown himself king of jerusalem
bragging;an instance of boastful talk. 'his brag is worse than his fight'
operation;a process or series of acts especially of a practical or mechanical nature involved in a particular form of work: 'the operations in building a house'. 'certain machine tool operations'
respite;the act of reprieving. postponing or remitting punishment
conversion;a spiritual enlightenment causing a person to lead a new life
building;the act of constructing or building something. 'during the construction we had to take a detour'. 'his hobby was the building of boats'
five hundred;a card game similar to ecarte. each player is dealt 5 cards and the player making trump must take 3 tricks to win a hand
gynaeolatry;worship of women
lift;the act of giving temporary assistance
endoscopy;examination of the interior of a hollow body organ by use of an endoscope
divorce;the legal dissolution of a marriage
misconstruction;a deliberate misinterpretation
saving;recovery or preservation from loss or danger. 'work is the deliverance of mankind' or 'a surgeon's job is the saving of lives'
attainment;arrival at a new stage. 'his attainment of puberty was delayed by malnutrition'
solitaire;a card game played by one person
concession;a point conceded or yielded. 'they won all the concessions they asked for'
debriefing;report of a mission or task
crash;the act of colliding with something
battle of rocroi;a battle in the thirty years' war (1643). the french defeated the spanish invaders
hasty defense;a defense organized while in contact with the enemy or when time is limited
lutzen;a battle in the thirty years' war (1632). swedes under king gustavus adolphus defeated the imperialists under wallenstein. adolphus was killed
final examination;an examination administered at the end of an academic term
legal duty;acts which the law requires be done or forborne
run in;an angry dispute. 'they had a quarrel'. 'they had words'
strip cropping;cultivation of crops in strips following the contours of the land to minimize erosion
reward;an act performed to strengthen approved behavior
world war;a war in which the major nations of the world are involved
professional basketball;playing basketball for money
mesh;the act of interlocking or meshing. 'an interlocking of arms by the police held the crowd in check'
reshuffling;shuffling (cards) again. 'the gambler demanded a reshuffle'
oophorectomy;surgical removal of one of both ovaries
charge;a task that has been assigned to a person or group. 'a confidential mission to london'. 'his charge was deliver a message'
overshielding;excessive protection
thickening;the act of thickening
hypermedia;a multimedia system in which related items of information are connected and can be presented together
party spirit;devotion to a political party
process;a particular course of action intended to achieve a results. 'the procedure of obtaining a driver's license'. 'it was a process of trial and error'
combat;an engagement fought between two military forces
ferrying;transport by boat or aircraft
miscount;an inaccurate count
confrontation;the act of opposing groups confronting each other. 'the government was not ready for a confrontation with the unions'. 'the invaders encountered stiff opposition'
groundbreaking;the ceremonial breaking of the ground to formally begin a construction project
atmospheric condition;the meteorological conditions: temperature and wind and clouds and precipitation. 'they were hoping for good weather'. 'every day we have weather conditions and yesterday was no exception'the meteorological conditions: temperature and wind and clouds and precipitation. 'they were hoping for good weather'. 'every day we have weather conditions and yesterday was no exception'
modern dance;a style of theatrical dancing that is not as restricted as classical ballet. movements are expressive of feelings
police investigation;the investigation of criminal activities to determine the perpetrator. 'detection is hard on the feet'
freeing;liberation from any onerous controlling influence
snake dance;a ceremonial dance (as by the american hopi indians) in which snakes are handled or invoked
knitting;creating knitted wear
pm;modulation of the phase of the carrier wave
boreas;a wind from the north
loading;the labor of loading something. 'the loading took 2 hours'
manipulation;the action of touching with the hands or the skillful use of the hands
fun;violent and excited activity. 'she asked for money and then the fun began'. (colloquial) 'they began to fight like fun'
line function;activity contributing directly to the output of an organization
looking;the act of directing the eyes toward something and perceiving it visually. 'he went out to have a look'. 'his look was fixed on her eyes'. 'he gave it a good looking at'. 'his camera does his looking for him'
living together;living together (as spouses)
third battle of ypres;battle in world war i (1917). an allied offensive which eventually failed because tanks bogged down in the waterlogged soil of flanders. germans introduced mustard gas which interfered with the allied artillery
instalment;a part of a broadcast serial
battle of marston moor;a battle in 1644 in which the parliamentarians under the earl of manchester defeated the royalists under prince rupert
invitation;a formal request to participate or be present
matric;admission to a group (especially a college or university)
stand;a defensive effort. 'the army made a final stand at the rhone'
classification;restriction imposed by the government on documents or weapons that are available only to certain authorized people
complete blood count;counting the number of white and red blood cells and the number of platelets in 1 cubic millimeter of blood
compaction;the act of crushing
groundbreaking ceremony;the ceremonial breaking of the ground to formally begin a construction project
nationalization;changing something from private to state ownership or control
secularization;transfer of property from ecclesiastical to civil possession
last;a person's dying act. the last thing a person can do. 'he breathed his last'
function;the actions and activities assigned to or required or expected of a person or group: 'the function of a teacher'. 'the government must do its part' or 'play its role' or 'do its duty'
lob;the act of propelling something (as a ball or shell etc.) in a high arc
legal ouster;the expulsion of someone (such as a tenant) from land by process of law
beat;(prosody) the accent in a metrical foot of verse
showdown;a hostile disagreement face-to-face
panipat;battle in which the ruler of afghanistan defeated the mahrattas in 1761
philippi;octavian and mark antony defeated brutus and cassius in 42 bc
entry;the act of entering. 'she made a grand entrance'
preying;an act of plundering
bet;the act of gambling. 'he did it on a bet'
anecdote;short account of an incident (especially a biographical one)
offer;the verbal act of offering. 'a generous offer of assitance'
deprecation;the act of depreciating
boarding;the act of passengers and crew getting aboard a ship or aircraft
spotting;the act of detecting something. catching sight of something
itemisation;the act of making a list of items
serialisation;publication in serial form
nudge;a slight push
stapedectomy;surgical removal of the stapes of the middle ear
battle of lepanto;turkish sea power was destroyed in 1571 by a league of christian nations organized by the pope
swaddling clothes;restrictions placed on the immature
jailing;putting someone in prison or in jail as lawful punishment
pool;any of various games played on a pool table having 6 pockets
semester hour;a unit of academic credit. one hour a week for an academic semester
call out;a challenge to a fight or duel
operations;financial transactions at a brokerage. having to do with the execution of trades and keeping customer records
side glance;a glance sideways. 'she shot him an impatient side-glance'
headstand;an acrobatic feat in which a person balances on the head (usually with the help of the hands)
blastoff;the launching of a missile or spacecraft to a specified destination
rallying;the act of mobilizing for a common purpose. 'the bell was a signal for the rallying of the whole neighborhood'
denationalization;changing something from state to private ownership or control
knight s service;land tenure by service to the lord as a knight
beef;informal terms for objecting. 'i have a gripe about the service here'
triple;a base hit at which the batter stops safely at third base
headmistresship;the position of headmistress
privation;act of depriving
line;acting in conformity. 'in line with' or 'he got out of line' or 'toe the line'
danceroom music;music composed for ballroom dancing
iwo;a bloody and prolonged operation in which american marines landed and defeated japanese defenders (february and march 1945)
west wind;a wind from the west
basketry;the craft of basket making
leg extensor;an exercise designed to strengthen the extensor muscles of the leg
rediscovery;the act of discovering again
nonattendance;the failure to attend
gala affair;a gay festivity
pitching;playing the position of pitcher on a baseball team
blood typing;determining a person's blood type by serological methods
quiz;an examination consisting of a few short questions
crosswind;wind blowing across the path or a ship or aircraft
count;the act of counting
controlling;the activity of managing or exerting control over something. 'the control of the mob by the police was admirable'the activity of managing or exerting control over something. 'the control of the mob by the police was admirable'
guidance;the act of setting and holding a course. 'a new council was installed under the direction of the king'
meuse argonne;an american operation in world war i (1918). american troops under pershing drove back the german armies which were saved only by the armistice on november 11
philippic;a violent denunciation
funfair;a traveling show. having sideshows and rides and games of skill etc.
consultation;the act of referring. 'reference to an encyclopedia produced the answer'
return;getting something back again. 'upon the restitution of the book to its rightful owner the child was given a tongue lashing'
jihad;a holy war by muslims against unbelievers
murk;an atmosphere in which visibility is reduced because of a cloud of some substance
relegation;authorizing subordinates to make certain decisions
yalu river;a battle in the korean war (november 1950). when un troops advanced north to the yalu river 200,000 chinese troops crossed the river and drove them back
carillon playing;playing a set of bells that are (usually) hung in a tower
allegiance;the act of binding yourself (intellectually or emotionally) to a course of action. 'his long commitment to public service'. 'they felt no loyalty to a losing team'
manoeuvre;a military training exercise
wipe;the act of rubbing or wiping. 'he gave the hood a quick rub'
literature;the profession or art of a writer. 'her place in literature is secure'
epikeratophakia;using a piece of donated corneal tissue to repair the eye of someone who has had a cataract removed. 'epikeratophakia gave her a living contact lens'
amplitude modulation;modulation of the amplitude of the (radio) carrier wave
imprisonment;the act of confining someone in a prison (or as if in a prison)
seizing;the act of gripping something firmly with the hands
storage;the commercial enterprise of storing goods and materials
opinion;the reason for a court's judgment (as opposed to the decision itself)
freightage;transporting goods commercially at rates cheaper than express rates
check;the act of stopping (usually stopping motion). 'the heart was in arrest'. 'war caused a check in the company's growth'. 'the momentary stay enabled him to escape the blow'
riddance;the act of expelling someone
crash landing;an emergency landing under circumstances where a normal landing is impossible (usually damaging the aircraft)
titration;a measured amount of a solution of unknown concentration is added to a known volume of a second solution until the reaction between them is just complete. the concentration of the unknown solution (the titer) can them be calculated
cartoon;a film made by photographing a series of cartoon drawings to give the illusion of movement when projected in rapid sequence
adoration;worship given to god alone
part singing;singing with three or more voice parts
leave;the act of departing politely. 'he disliked long farewells'. 'he took his leave'
guessing game;a game in which participants compete to identify some obscurely indicated thing
tending;the work of caring for or attending to someone or something. 'no medical care was required'. 'the old car needed constant attention'
astronavigation;navigating according to the positions of the stars
sit down;a strike in which workers refuse to leave the workplace until a settlement is reached
iq test;a psychometric test of intelligence. 'they used to think that intelligence is what an intelligence test tests'
lavage;washing out a hollow organ (especially the stomach) by flushing with water
rugby;(british) a form of football played with an oval ball
harassing fire;fire designed to disturb the rest of enemy troops and to curtail movement and to lower enemy morale
blessing;the act of praying for divine protection
alimentation;the act of supplying food and nourishment
riding;riding a horse as a sport
curettage;surgery to remove tissue or growths from a bodily cavity (as the uterus) by scraping with a curette
line drive triple;a triple resulting from a line drive
adoption;the act of accepting with approval. favorable reception. 'its adoption by society'. 'the proposal found wide acceptance'
squash;a game played in an enclosed court by two or four players who strike the ball with long-handled rackets
liniment;a medicinal liquid that is rubbed into the skin to relieve muscular stiffness and pain
production;(economics) manufacturing or mining or growing something (usually in large quantities) for sale. 'he introduced more efficient methods of production'
economic strangulation;punishment of a group by cutting off commercial dealings with them. 'the economic strangulation of the jews by the nazi party'
least effort;the least effortful way to do something
protest;the act of making a strong public expression of disagreement and disapproval. 'he shouted his protests at the umpire'. 'a shower of protest was heard from the rear of the hall'
pedagogy;the profession of a teacher. 'he prepared for teaching while still in college'. 'pedagogy is recognized as an important profession'
rolling;propelling something on wheels
jump;the act of jumping. propelling yourself off the ground. 'he advanced in a series of jumps'. 'the jumping was unexpected'
opencast mining;the mining of ore or coal from an open mine
offering;the act of contributing to the funds of a church or charity. 'oblations for aid to the poor'
play;a theatrical performance of a drama. 'the play lasted two hours'
caroling;singing joyful religious songs (especially at christmas)
routine;a short theatrical performance that is part of a longer program. 'he did his act three times every evening'. 'she had a catchy little routine'. 'it was one of the best numbers he ever did'
practice;translating an idea into action. 'a hard theory to put into practice'. 'they put their plans into practice'
pleasantry;an agreeable or amusing remark. 'they exchange pleasantries'
supervising;management by overseeing the performance or operation of a person or group
hot spell;a period of unusually hot weather
plumbing;measuring the depths of the oceans
foreclosure;the legal proceedings initiated by a creditor to repossess the collateral for loan that is in default
field goal;a score in basketball made by throwing the ball through the hoop
nonconformity;lack of harmony or correspondence
touristry;the business of providing services to tourists. 'tourism is a major business in bermuda'
internationalization;the act of bringing something under international control
thrust;the act of applying force to propel something. 'after reaching the desired velocity the drive is cut off'
business life;a career in industrial or commercial or professional activities
chickamauga;a confederate victory in the american civil war (1863). confederate forces under braxton bragg defeated union forces
dispute;coming into conflict with
convention;the act of convening
interpretation;the act of interpreting something as expressed in an artistic performance
directorship;the position of a director of a business concern
music lesson;a lesson in performing music
leg pulling;as a joke: trying to make somebody believe something that is not true
call;brief visit in an official or professional capacity: 'the pastor's visits to his parishioners'. 'a visit to a dentist'. 'the salesman's call on a customer'
meuse;an american operation in world war i (1918). american troops under pershing drove back the german armies which were saved only by the armistice on november 11
condensing;the act of increasing the density of something
celestial guidance;a method of controlling the flight of a missile or spacecraft by reference to the positions of celestial bodies
class war;conflict between social or economic classes (especially between the capitalist and proletariat classes)
mission;the organized work of a religious missionary
waste;useless or profitless activity. using or expending or consuming thoughtlessly or carelessly: 'if the effort brings no compensating gain it is a waste'. 'mindless dissipaton of natural resources'
lobotomy;surgical interruption of nerve tracts to and from the frontal lobe of the brain
hot war;actual fighting between the warring parties
lock;any wrestling hold in which some part of the opponent's body is twisted or pressured
reading;a particular interpretation or performance. 'on that reading it was an insult'. 'he was famous for his reading of mozart'
support;documentary validation. 'his documentation of the results was excellent'. 'the strongest support for this this view is the work of jones'
truck farming;growing vegetables for the market
indexation;a system of economic regulation: wages and interest are tied to the cost-of-living index in order to reduce the effects of inflation
insurance claim;demand for payment in accordance with an insurance policy
liner;the act of hitting a baseball so that it flies straight out from the batter. 'the batter hit a liner to the shortstop'
cardiac resuscitation;an emergency procedure consisting of external cardiac massage and artificial respiration. the first treatment for a person who has collapsed and has no pulse and has stopped breathing. attempts to restore circulation of the blood and prevent death or brain damage due to lack of oxygen
rest cure;rest as a medical treatment for stress or anxiety etc.
colorimetric analysis;quantitative chemical analysis by color using a colorimeter
military service;land tenure by service in the lord's army
channelization;management through specified channels of communication
issuance;the provision of something by issuing it (usually in quantity). 'a new issue of stamps'. 'the last issue of penicillin was over a month ago'
naval battle;a pitched battle between naval fleets
pass;you advance to the next round in a tournament without playing an opponent. 'he had a bye in the first round'
teetotaling;abstaining from alcohol
legerdemain;an illusory feat. considered magical by naive observers
custom;habitual patronage
jet stream;a high-speed high-altitude airstream blowing from west to east near the top of the troposphere. has important effects of the formation of weather fronts
exam;a set of questions or exercises evaluating skill or knowledge. 'when the test was stolen the professor had to make a new set of questions'
instruction;activities that impart knowledge. 'he received no formal education'
leuctra;thebes defeated sparta in 371 bc. the battle ended sparta's military supremacy in greece
emergency procedure;a procedure adopted to meet an emergency (especially a medical emergency)
high pressure;an air mass of higher than normal pressure. 'the east coast benefits from a bermuda high'
manila bay;a naval battle in the spanish-american war (1898). the american fleet under admiral dewey defeated the spanish fleet
paving;the application of paving materials to an area
riot control operations;the measures taken to control a riot
bolero;a spanish dance in triple time accompanied by guitar and castanets
design;the act of working out the form of something (as by making a sketch or outline or plan). 'he contributed to the design of a new instrument'
prompting;the act of suggesting. 'it was a suggestion we couldn't refuse'
placebo;roman catholic church: vespers of the office for the dead
hydroplane racing;racing in high-speed motor boats
foremanship;the position of foreman
second reading;the second presentation of a bill in a legislature. to approve its general principles (britain) or to discuss a committee's report and take a vote (us)
scuff;the act of scuffing (scraping or dragging the feet)
hobby;an auxiliary activity
expedient;a means to an end. not necessarily a principled or ethical one
sentimentalisation;the act of indulging in sentiment
meuse river;an american operation in world war i (1918). american troops under pershing drove back the german armies which were saved only by the armistice on november 11
shipboard duty;naval service aboard a ship at sea
stepping down;a formal resignation and renunciation of powers
unmasking;the exposure of an impostor or a fraud. 'he published an expose of the graft and corruption in city government'
channel;a path over which electrical signals can pass
hydropathy;the internal and external use of water in the treatment of disease
amphibrach;a metrical unit with unstressed-stressed-unstressed syllables (e.g., 'remember')
wiring;the work of installing the wires for an electrical system or device
last rites;a catholic sacrament. a priest anoints a dying person with oil and prays for salvation
sacrament of the eucharist;a christian sacrament commemorating the last supper by consecrating bread and wine
metrazol shock treatment;the administration of sufficient metrazol to induce convulsions and coma
haymaking;taking full advantage of an opportunity while it lasts
idealization;a portrayal of something as ideal. 'the idealization of rural life was very misleading'
house raising;construction by a group of neighbors
designing;the act of working out the form of something (as by making a sketch or outline or plan). 'he contributed to the design of a new instrument'
compliance;acting according to certain accepted standards
keynote speech;a speech setting forth the keynote
wind;air moving (sometimes with considerable force) from an area of high pressure to an area of low pressure. 'trees bent under the fierce winds'
phase modulation;modulation of the phase of the carrier wave
calling;the particular occupation for which you are trained
summary treatment;a brief and unsympathetic rejection. 'they made short shrift of my request'
overpayment;the act of paying too much
correction;the act of punishing. 'the offenders deserved the harsh discipline they received'
jackknife;a dive in which the diver bends to touch the ankles before straightening out
hunting;the work of finding and killing or capturing animals for food or pelts
electioneering;the campaign of a candidate to be elected
scrabble;(trademark) a game in which words are formed from letters in patterns similar to a crossword puzzle
auction pitch;an all-fours game in which the first card led is a trump
reappearance;the act of appearing again
religious rite;an established ceremony prescribed by a religion. 'the rite of baptism'
country dancing;a type of folk dance in which couples are arranged in sets or face one another in a line
auction;the public sale of something to the highest bidder
misreading;misinterpretation caused by inaccurate reading
assembly;the act of constructing something (as a piece of machinery)
abdication;a formal resignation and renunciation of powers
succession;the action of following in order: 'he played the trumps in sequence'
thrashing;the act of inflicting corporal punishment with repeated blows
bodywork;the work of making or repairing vehicle bodies
devil worship;worship of devils
panto;(british) an abbreviation of pantomime
ballot;a choice that is made by voting. 'there were only 17 votes in favor of the motion'
philately;the collection and study of postage stamps
eviction;the expulsion of someone (such as a tenant) from land by process of law
hampton roads;a battle of the american civil war (1862). the battle between the monitor and the merrimac
floriculture;the cultivation of flowering plants
marketing;the exchange of goods for an agreed sum of money
spray painting;applying paint with a sprayer
corvee;unpaid labor (as for the maintenance of roads) required by a lord of his vassals in lieu of taxes
festivity;any festival or other celebration
neurosurgery;any surgery that involves the nervous system (brain or spinal cord or peripheral nerves)
horticulture;the cultivation of plants
contribution;act of giving in common with others for a common purpose especially to a charity
russo japanese war;victory in the war with russia (1904-1905) gave japan power over korea and manchuria
tussle;disorderly fighting
politics;the profession devoted to governing and to political affairs
indirect request;an expression of some desire or inclination. 'i could tell that it was his wish that the guests leave'. 'his crying was an indirect request for attention'
marketing;shopping at a market: 'does the weekly marketing at the supermarket'
detailing;an individualized description of a particular instance
invite;a colloquial expression for invitation. 'he didn't get no invite to the party'
programming;creating a sequence of instructions to enable the computer to do something
french kiss;an open-mouthed kiss in which your tongue is inserted into the other's mouth
campaign;several related operations aimed at achieving a particular goal (usually within geographical and temporal constraints)
qualitative analysis;the act of decomposing a substance into its constituent elements
loan approval;formal authorization to get a loan (usually from a bank)
plea;humble request for help
electronic simulative deception;actions to represent friendly notional or actual capabilities to mislead hostile forces
spin the bottle;a game in which a player spins a bottle and kisses the person that it points to when it stops spinning
defence;a defendant's answer or plea denying the truth of the charges against him. 'he gave evidence for the defense'
randomization;an deliberately haphazard arrangement of observations so as to simulate chance
two step;a ballroom dance in duple meter. marked by sliding steps
insider trading;buying or selling corporate stock by a corporate officer or other insider
imperialism;any instance of aggressive extension of authority
cribbage;a card game in which each player is dealt 6 cards and discards one or two to make up the crib
refereeing;the act of umpiring
exertion;use of physical or mental energy. hard work. 'he got an a for effort'. 'they managed only with great exertion'
ironing;the work of ironing washed clothes
labour of love;productive work performed voluntarily without material reward or compensation
pluck;the act of pulling and releasing a taut cord
iwo jima;a bloody and prolonged operation in which american marines landed and defeated japanese defenders (february and march 1945)
reciprocal inhibition;a method of behavior therapy based on the inhibition of one response by the occurrence of another response that is mutually incompatible with it. a relaxation response might be conditioned to a stimulus that previously evoked anxiety
lipreading;perceiving what a person is saying by observing the movements of the lips
manipulation;exerting shrewd or devious influence especially for one's own advantage. 'his manipulation of his friends was scandalous'
relief;assistance in time of difficulty. 'the contributions provided some relief for the victims'
disposal;the act or means of getting rid of something
minister;(british) the job of a head of a government department
ownership;the act of possessing. 'they took possession of the ball'
cabinet minister;(british) the job of a senior minister who is a member of the british cabinet
battle of philippi;octavian and mark antony defeated brutus and cassius in 42 bc
placation;the act of placating
workload;work that a person is expected to do in a specified time
carriage trade;trade from upper-class customers
mimicry;the act of mimicking. imitative behavior
sales resistance;resistance by potential customers to aggressive selling practices
validation;the act of finding or testing the truth of something
specialization;the special line of work you have adopted as your career. 'his specialization is gastroenterology'
round dancing;a ballroom dance characterized by revolving movement
picturing;visual representation as by photography or painting
bit part;a small role
default judgement;a judgment entered in favor of the plaintiff when the defendant defaults (fails to appear in court)
industrialisation;the development of industry on an extensive scale
raise;increasing the size of a bet (as in poker). 'i'll see your raise and double it'
short selling;sale of securities or commodity futures not owned by the seller (who hopes to buy them back later at a lower price)
summary judgement;a judgment rendered by the court prior to a verdict because no material issue of fact exists and one party or the other is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law
boogie;an instrumental version of the blues (especially for piano)
support;a military operation (often involving new supplies of men and materiel) to strengthen a military force or aid in the performance of its mission. 'they called for artillery support'
foxhunt;mounted hunters follow hounds in pursuit of a fox
equilisation;the act of making equal or uniform
curative;a medicine or therapy that cures disease or relieve pain
creating by mental acts;the act of creating something by thinking
southerly;a wind from the south
pillow fight;a child's game of fighting with pillows
competition;the act of competing as for profit or a prize: 'the teams were in fierce contention for first place'
radical hysterectomy;surgical removal of the uterus and the ovaries and oviducts and cervix and related lymph nodes
palliative;alleviates pain without curing
ipo;a corporation's first offer to sell stock to the public
white man s burden;the supposed responsibility of the white race to take of their non-white subjects
instrument flying;navigation of an airplane solely by instruments
feminist movement;the movement aimed at equal rights for women
spectroscopy;the use of spectroscopes to analyze spectra
involvement;sharing the activities of a group. 'the teacher tried to increase his students' engagement in class activities'
gape;a stare of amazement (usually with the mouth open)
recourse;act of turning to for assistance: 'have recourse to the courts'. 'an appeal to his uncle was his last resort'
dumb show;a performance using gestures and body movements without words
redetermination;determining again
testing;the act of subjecting to experimental test. 'they agreed to end the testing of atomic weapons'
reshipment;the act of shipping again (especially by transferring to another ship)
stanford binet test;revision of the binet-simon scale
social security;social welfare program in the u.s.. includes old-age and survivors insurance and some unemployment insurance and old-age assistance
still hunt;a hunt for game carried on by stalking or waiting in ambush
sultriness;oppressively hot and humid weather
religious service;the act of public worship following prescribed rules. 'the sunday service'
grouping;the activity of putting things together in groups"the activity of putting things together in groups"
giving up;a verbal act of admitting defeat
step dancing;dancing in which the steps are more important than gestures or postures
dishwashing;the act of washing dishes
label;a brief description given for purposes of identification. 'the label modern is applied to many different kinds of architecture'
paperwork;work that involves handling papers: forms or letters or reports etc.
repayment;the act of returning money received previously
alphabetization;the act of putting in alphabetical order
heritage;any acquisition from past generations
flirtation;playful behavior intended to arouse sexual interest
ingenue;the role of an innocent artless young woman in a play
pop quiz;a quiz given without prior warning
feat;a notable achievement: 'the book was her finest effort'a notable achievement: 'the book was her finest effort'
secreting;the activity of keeping something secret
photogravure;using photography to produce a plate for printing
emergence;the act of coming (or going) out. becoming apparent
gaze;a long fixed look. 'he fixed his paternal gaze on me'
wooing;a man's courting of a woman. seeking the affections of a woman (usually with the hope of marriage). 'its was a brief and intense courtship'
purgation;the act of clearing yourself (or another) from some stigma or charge
christian liturgy;the christian worship services
breakout;an escape from jail. 'the breakout was carefully planned'
decalcomania;the art of transfering designs from specially prepared paper to a wood or glass or metal surface
fox trot;a ballroom dance in quadruple time. combines short and long and fast and slow steps fixed sequences
financing;the act of financing
scaling;act of measuring or arranging or adjusting according to a scale
stopover;a brief stay in the course of a journey. 'they made a stopover to visit their friends'
watch;a purposeful surveillance to guard or observe
leveling;the act of making equal or uniform
lindy hop;an energetic american dance that was popular in the 1930s (probably named for the aviator charles lindbergh)
warfare;the waging of armed conflict against an enemy. 'thousands of people were killed in the war'
gaolbreak;an escape from jail. 'the breakout was carefully planned'
ice skating;skating on ice
gathering;the act of gathering something"the act of gathering something"
kerugma;preaching the gospel of christ in the manner of the early church
blessing;the formal act of giving approval: 'he gave the project his blessing'. 'his decision merited the approval of any sensible person'
grapevine;gossip spread by spoken communication. 'the news of their affair was spread by word of mouth'
ointment;used for healing or soothing
omdurman;a battle (1898) in which an anglo-egyptian army under lord kitchener defeated the sudanese
harvest home;"the gathering of a ripened crop"the gathering of a ripened crop
squash racquets;a game played in an enclosed court by two or four players who strike the ball with long-handled rackets
branding;the act of stigmatizing
field goal;a score in american football. a score made by kicking the ball between the opponents' goal posts
turning away;deliberately avoiding
sprinkle;a light shower that falls in some locations and not others nearby
michigan;a gambling card game in which chips are placed on the ace and king and queen and jack of separate suits (taken from a separate deck). a player plays the lowest card of a suit in his hand and successively higher cards are played until the sequence stops. the player who plays a card matching one in the layout wins all the chips on that card
disappearing;the act of leaving secretly or without explanation
sass;an impudent or insolent rejoinder. 'don't give me any of your sass'
threshing;the separation of grain or seeds from the husks and straw. 'they used to do the threshing by hand but now there are machines to do it'
connivance;agreement on a secret plot
coin collection;the act or practice of collecting coins
orchidectomy;surgical removal of one or both testicles
verdict;the findings of a jury on issues of fact submitted to it for decision. can be used in formulating a judgment
expatriation;the act of expelling a person from their native land
hasty defence;a defense organized while in contact with the enemy or when time is limited
piece of cake;any activity that is easy to do. 'marketing this product will be no picnic'
bessemer process;a process for making steel using a bessemer converter
eleven plus;(formerly in england) an examination taken by 11 and 12 year old students to select suitable candidates for grammar school
swing music;a style of jazz played by big bands popular in the 1930s. flowing rhythms but less complex than later styles of jazz
air reconnaissance;reconnaissance either by visual observation from the air or through the use of airborne sensors
bubble bath;a bath in which you add something to foam and scent the bath water
teaching;activities that impart knowledge. 'he received no formal education'
ouster;the act of ejecting someone or forcing them out
sword dancing;any of various dances by men who step nimbly over swords or flourish them in the air
knock rummy;a form of rummy in which a player can go out if the cards remaining in their hand total less than 10 points
moving;transportation of (household or office) belongings to a new address
camping;the act of encamping and living in tents in a camp
virtual reality;a hypothetical three-dimensional visual world created by a computer. user wears special goggles and fiber optic gloves etc., and can enter and move about in this world and interact with objects as if inside it
volleyball game;a game in which two teams hit an inflated ball over a high net using their hands
horse racing;the sport of racing horses
emergence;the act of emerging
wings;a means of flight or ascent. 'necessity lends wings to inspiration'
fluorescence microscopy;light microscopy in which the specimen is irradiated at wavelengths that excite fluorochromes
premiere;the first public performance of a play or movie
homemaking;the management of a houshold
ostracism;the act of excluding someone from society by general consent
kick;informal terms for objecting. 'i have a gripe about the service here'
assembling;the act of gathering something together"the act of gathering something together"
self assertion;the act of putting forth your own opinions in a boastful or inconsiderate manner that implies you feel superior to others
snick;a glancing contact with the ball off the edge of the cricket bat
part;an actor's portrayal of someone in a play. 'she played the part of desdemona'
ipsus;a battle between the successors of alexander the great (301 bc). lysimachus and seleucus defeated antigonus and demetrius
taking into custody;the act of apprehending (especially apprehending a criminal). 'the policeman on the beat got credit for the collar'
apheresis;a procedure in which blood is drawn and separated into its components by dialysis. some are retained and the rest are returned to the donor by transfusion
release;the act of liberating someone or something
horseshoes;a game in which quoits or horseshoes are thrown at a stake in the ground in the hope of encircling it
face saving;an act that avoids a loss of face (of dignity or prestige)
discord;disagreement among those expected to cooperate
admiration;a favorable judgment. 'a small token in admiration of your works'
oil production;the act of drilling a hole in the earth in the hope of producing petroleum
disembarkment;the act of passengers and crew getting off of a ship or aircraft
course;education imparted in a series of lessons or class meetings. 'he took a course in basket weaving'. 'flirting is not unknown in college classes'
parcheesi;(trademark) a modern board game based on pachisi
sympathy strike;a strike in support of other workers who are on strike. a strike not resulting from direct grievances against the workers' employer
world record;the best record in the whole world
bannockburn;a battle in which the scots under robert the bruce defeated the english and assured the independence of scotland
telephone interview;an interview conducted over the telephone
cesarian;the delivery of a fetus by surgical incision through the abdominal wall and uterus (from the belief that julius caesar was born that way)
strain;an intense or violent exertion
skimming;the act of brushing against while passing
deportation;the act of expelling a person from their native land
bismarck sea;world war ii naval battle. allied land-based bombers destroyed a japanese convoy in the bismarck sea in march 1943
frivolity;acting like a clown or buffoon
government;the act of governing. exercising authority. 'regulations for the government of state prisons'. 'he had considerable experience of government'
french and indian war;a war between france and britain (both aided by indian tribes). 1755-1760
bust up takeover;a leveraged buyout in which the target company's assets are sold to repay the loan that financed the takeover
grab;the act of catching an object with the hands. 'mays made the catch with his back to the plate'
atmospheric state;the weather or climate at some place. 'the atmosphere was thick with fog'
offensive;the action of attacking the enemy
self renunciation;renunciation of your own interests in favor of the interests of others
hamming;poor acting by a ham actor
escort;the act of accompanying someone or something in order to protect them
idolization;worshiping blindly and to excess
dig;the act of digging. 'there's an interesting excavation going on near princeton'
choppiness;used of the sea
basket;a score in basketball made by throwing the ball through the hoop
reapportionment;a new apportionment (especially a reallotment of us congressional seats on the basis of census results)
conctraceptive method;birth control by the use of contraceptive devices
standard operating procedure;a prescribed procedure to be followed routinely
table game;a game that is played on a table
sparring;an argument in which the participants are trying to gain some advantage
trade;steady winds blowing from east to west above and below the equator. 'they rode the trade winds going west'
birth prevention;limiting the number of children born
oration;an instance of oratory. 'he delivered an oration on the decline of family values'
norman conquest;the invasion and settlement of england by the normans following the battle of hastings (1066)
forfeiture;the act of losing or surrendering something as a penalty for a mistake or fault or failure to perform etc.
fraternization;associating with others in a brotherly or friendly way. especially with an enemy
reel;an american country dance which starts with the couples facing each other in two lines
cabotage;navigation in costal waters
head rhyme;use of the same consonant at the beginning of each stressed syllable in a line of verse: 'around the rock the ragged rascal ran'
socialisation;the adoption of the behavior patterns of the surrounding culture
cutting;the activity of selecting the scenes to be shown and putting them together to create a film
forbidding;an official prohibition
mass media;transmissions that are disseminated widely to the public
conveyancing;act of transferring property title from one person to another
cutting out;surgical removal of a body part or tissue
act;"something that people do or cause to happen"
social welfare;governmental provision of economic assistance to persons in need
aggression;the act of initiating hostilities
dardanelles campaign;the unsuccessful campaign in world war i (1915) by the english and french to open a passage for aid to russia. defeated by the turks
governing;the act of governing. exercising authority. 'regulations for the government of state prisons'. 'he had considerable experience of government'
checkout;the act of inspecting or verifying. 'they made a check of their equipment'. 'the pilot ran through the check-out procedure'
demonstration;a public display of group feelings. 'there were violent demonstrations against the war'
masking;the act of concealing the existence of something by obstructing the view of it. 'the cover concealed their guns from enemy aircraft'
education;activities that impart knowledge. 'he received no formal education'
treasure hunt;a game in which players try to find hidden articles by using a series of clues
penning;the act of creating written works. 'writing was a form of therapy for him'. 'it was a matter of disputed authorship'
premier;the position of the cabinet minister who is in charge of government affairs
whist;a card game for four players who form two partnerships. a pack of 52 cards is dealt and each side scores one point for each trick it takes in excess of six
immobilisation;the act of limiting movement or making incapable of movement: 'immobilizing the injured knee was necessary'. 'the storm caused complete immobilization of the rescue team'
negative;a reply of denial. 'he answered in the negative'
takeover;a change by sale or merger in the controlling interest of a corporation
dint;interchangeable with 'means' in the expression 'by dint of'
strong gale;wind moving 47-54 knots. 9 on the beaufort scale
rouge et noir;a card game in which two rows of cards are dealt and players can bet on the color of the cards or on which row will have a count nearer some number
heterosexism;discrimination in favor of heterosexual and against homosexual people
finance;the commercial activity of providing funds and capital
toilet;the act of dressing and preparing yourself. 'he made his toilet and went to breakfast'
accomplished fact;an irreversible accomplishment
tramontana;a cold dry wind that blows south out of the mountains into italy and the western mediterranean
grooving;the cutting of spiral grooves on the inside of the barrel of a firearm
random sampling;the selection of a random sample. each element of the population has an equal chance of been selected
wheeling;propelling something on wheels
trochee;a metrical unit with stressed-stressed-unstressed syllables
quislingism;act of cooperating traitorously with an enemy
battle of jena;the battle in 1806 in which napoleon decisively defeated the prussians
dictation;an authoritative direction or instruction to do something
antifeminism;activity indicative of belief in the superiority of men over women
airstream;a relatively well-defined prevailing wind
time study;an analysis of a specific job in an effort to find the most efficient method in terms of time and effort
decision;the act of making up your mind about something. 'the burden of decision was his'. 'he drew his conclusions quickly'
delivery;recovery or preservation from loss or danger. 'work is the deliverance of mankind' or 'a surgeon's job is the saving of lives'
bardolatry;idolization of william shakespeare
heaving;the act of ejecting the contents of the stomach through the mouth
line shooting;an instance of boastful talk. 'his brag is worse than his fight'
open frame;any frame in which a bowler fails to make a strike or spare. 'the break in the eighth frame cost him the match'
image compression;the compression of graphics for storage or transmission
pallone;an italian game similar to tennis
german lesson;instruction in the german language
solicitorship;the position of solicitor
doubles;badminton played with two players on each side
stitching;joining or attaching by stitches
regard;a long fixed look. 'he fixed his paternal gaze on me'
words;an angry dispute. 'they had a quarrel'. 'they had words'
crop;the yield from plants in a single growing season
struggle;strenuous effort. 'the struggle to get through the crowd exhausted her'
leadership;the activity of leading. 'his leadership inspired the team'
novelisation;converting something into the form of a novel
extirpation;surgical removal of a body part or tissue
special verdict;a verdict rendered on certain specific factual issues posed by the court without finding for one party or the other
professional baseball;playing baseball for money
sanctification;a religious ceremony in which something is made holy
expulsion;squeezing out by applying pressure
break dancing;a form of solo dancing that involves rapid acrobatic moves in which different parts of the body touch the ground. normally performed to the rhythm of rap music
halma;a board game in which players try to move their pieces into their opponent's bases
secularisation;transfer of property from ecclesiastical to civil possession
baby oil;an ointment for babies
drilling;the act of drilling
pillage;the act of stealing valuable things from a place. 'the plundering of rome'. 'his plundering of the great authors'
rain dance;a ritual dance intended to bring rain
pinch;a squeeze with the fingers
administrative hearing;a hearing that takes place outside the judicial process before hearing examiners who have been granted judicial authority specifically for the purpose of conducting such hearings
obstetrical delivery;the act of delivering a child
push back;the act of forcing the enemy to withdraw
rumba;a ballroom dance based on the cuban folk dance
ticktacktoe;a game in which two players alternately put crosses and circles in one of the compartments of a 3-by-3 board. the object is to get a row of three crosses or three circles before the opponent does
expulsion;the act of expelling someone
twenty one;a card game in which the object is to hold cards having a higher count than those dealt to the bank up to but not exceeding 21
pictorial representation;visual representation as by photography or painting
pickup;the act or process of picking up or collecting from various places: 'garbage pickup is on mondays and thursdays'
imposition;the act of imposing something (as a tax or an embargo)
provision;the activity of supplying or providing something"the activity of supplying or providing something"
petersburg;the final campaign of the american civil war (1864-65). union forces under grant besieged and finally defeated confederate forces under lee
robbery conviction;conviction for robbery
cryocautery;application of a substance that destroys tissue by freezing it
personation;imitating the mannerisms of another person
parking;the act of maneuvering a vehicle into a location where it can be left temporarily
parimutuel;betting where winners share the total amount wagered
abidance;the act of dwelling in a place
battle of rossbach;a battle in the seven years' war (1757). prussian forces under frederick the great defeated the armies of france and austria
inclementness;weather unsuitable for outdoor activities
mission;an operation that is assigned by a higher headquarters. 'the planes were on a bombing mission'
single entry bookkeeping;a simple bookkeeping system. transactions are entered in only one account
case load;the number of cases handled in a given period of time (as by a court or agency)
tarawa makin;battles in world war ii in the pacific (november 1943). us marines took the islands from the japanese after bitter fighting
catching;becomeing infected. 'catching cold is sometimes unavoidable'. 'the contracting of a serious illness can be financially catastrophic'
bosie;a cricket ball bowled as if to break one way that actually breaks in the opposite way
buss;a caress with the lips
chattanooga;in the american civil war (1863) the union armies of hooker, thomas, and sherman under the command of ulysses s. grant won a decisive victory over the confederate army under braxton bragg
mercantilism;"transactions having the objective of supplying commodities"transactions having the objective of supplying commodities
case;(law) a comprehensive term for any proceeding in a court of law whereby an individual seeks a legal remedy. 'the family brought suit against the landlord'
vocalization;"the sound made by the vibration of vocal folds modified by the resonance of the vocal tract. 'a singer takes good care of his voice'. 'the giraffe cannot make any vocalizations'"
sob stuff;a sentimental story or personal distress. designed to arouse sympathy
heart massage;an emergency procedure that employs rhythmic compression of the heart (either through the chest wall or (during surgery) directly to the heart) in an attempt to maintain circulation during cardiac arrest
construal;an interpretation of the meaning of something
listening;the act of hearing attentively. 'you can learn a lot by just listening'. 'they make good music--you should give them a hearing'
generalship;the office of general
snooker;a form of pool played with 15 red balls and six balls of other colors and a cue ball
intercession;a prayer to god on behalf of another person
order;putting in order. 'there were mistakes in the ordering of items on the list'
measure;any maneuver made as part of progress toward a goal. 'the police took steps to reduce crime'
telephotography;photography using a telephoto lens
teleselling;the use of the telephone as an interactive medium for promotion
no ball;unlawfully delivered ball in cricket. 'the umpire called it a no ball'
jackstones;a game in which jackstones are thrown and picked up in various groups between bounces of a small rubber ball
conservancy;the preservation and careful management of the environment and of natural resources
amphibious demonstration;an amphibious operation conducted for the purpose of deceiving the enemy and leading him into a course of action unfavorable to him
plunker;the act of hitting a baseball so that it drops suddenly
military censorship;all types of censorship conducted by personnel of the armed forces
coordination;the regulation of diverse elements into an integrated and harmonious operation
cohabitation;living together (as spouses)
alternation;successive change from one thing or state to another and back again
frost;weather cold enough to cause freezing
dissection;detailed part-by-part critical analysis or examination as of a literary work
open sesame;a magical command. used by ali baba
bloodletting;formerly used as a treatment to reduce excess blood (one of the four humors of medieval medicine)
dance of death;a medieval dance in which a skeleton representing death leads a procession of others to the grave
byplay;incidental activity performed by an actor for dramatic effect. 'his business with the cane was hilarious'
expenditure;the act of spending money for goods or services
chemical defence;procedures involved in taking defensive measures against attacks using chemical agents
endeavor;a purposeful or industrious undertaking (especially one that requires effort or boldness). 'he had doubts about the whole enterprise'
craps;a gambling game using two dice
sop;a prescribed procedure to be followed routinely
wrestling;the sport of hand-to-hand struggle between unarmed contestants who try to throw each other down
musical chairs;n players march around n-1 chairs. when the music stops the player who did not find a chair is eliminated
human activity;"something that people do or cause to happen"
counterpreparation fire;intensive prearranged fire delivered when the immanence of enemy attack is discovered
coin collecting;the collection and study of money (and coins in particular)
topolatry;worship of places
grammatolatry;worship of words
subbing;working as a substitute for someone who is ill or on leave of absence
acculturation;the adoption of the behavior patterns of the surrounding culture
big science;scientific research that requires massive capital investment but is expected to yield very significant results
clowning;acting like a clown or buffoon
friendly takeover;a takeover that is welcomed by the management of the target company
juggle;throwing and catching several objects simultaneously
permutation;act of changing the lineal order of objects in a group
ruse;a deceptive maneuver (especially to avoid capture)
solferino;an indecisive battle in 1859 between the french and sardinians under emperor napoleon iii and the austrians under emperor francis joseph i
mission impossible;an extremely dangerous or difficult mission
court martial;a trial by court martial
acceptance;the act of taking something that is offered. 'her acceptance of the gift encouraged him'. 'he anticipated their acceptance of his offer'
finding of law;a finding as to the applicability of a rule of law to particular facts
going ashore;debarkation from a boat or ship
battle of atlanta;federal troops under sherman cut off the railroads supplying atlanta and burned the city. 1864
informing;a speech act that conveys information
sword dance;any of various dances by men who step nimbly over swords or flourish them in the air
activity;any specific activity or pursuit. 'they avoided all recreational activity'"any specific activity or pursuit. 'they avoided all recreational activity'"
depression;an air mass of lower pressure. often brings precipitation. 'a low moved in over night bringing sleet and snow'
fluoroscopy;examination of body structures using a fluoroscope
doing;the act of doing something successfully. using knowledge as distinguished from merely possessing it. 'experience generally improves performance'
session;a meeting devoted to a particular activity. 'a filming session'. 'a gossip session'
maldon;a battle in which the danes defeated the east saxons in 991. celebrated in an old english poem
soaker;a heavy rain
cadence;(prosody) the accent in a metrical foot of verse
forbiddance;an official prohibition
overcast;the state of the sky when it is covered by clouds
planning;an act of formulating a program for a definite course of action. 'the planning was more fun than the trip itself'
realization;something that is realized. 'the victory was the realization of a whole year's work'
windlessness;calmness without winds
antitrade;winds blowing from west to east and lying above the trade winds in the tropics
plataea;a defeat of the persian army by the greeks in 479 bc
puppet play;a show in which the actors are puppets
delivery;the voluntary transfer of something (title or possession) from one party to another
hooky;failure to attend (especially school)
diversionary attack;an attack calculated to draw enemy defense away from the point of the principal attack
joke;a ludicrous or grotesque act done for fun and amusement
behavior therapy;psychotherapy that seeks to extinguish or inhibit abnormal or maladaptive behavior by reinforcing desired behavior and extinguishing undesired behavior
compensatory spending;spending money raised by borrowing. used by governments to stimulate their economy
interpretation;an explanation resulting from interpreting something
bust;an occasion for heavy drinking. 'they went on a bust that lasted three days'
care;attention and management implying responsibility for safety. 'he is under the care of a physician'
hawking;selling goods for a living
dedication;the act of binding yourself (intellectually or emotionally) to a course of action. 'his long commitment to public service'. 'they felt no loyalty to a losing team'
presentment;a document that must be accepted and paid by another person
exchange;the act of exchanging one thing for another. 'the devil promised adam immortality in exchange for his disobedience'
reshuffle;shuffling (cards) again. 'the gambler demanded a reshuffle'
post office;a children's game in which kisses are exchanged for pretended letters
gathering;the social act of assembling. 'they demanded the right of assembly'
question sheet;a written examination
modeling;a preliminary sculpture in wax or clay from which a finished work can be copied
stabilisation;the act of stabilizing. 'he worked for price stabilization for farm products'
arbitration;the act of deciding as an arbiter. giving authoritative judgment. 'they submitted their disagreement to arbitration'
suasion;the act of persuading (or attempting to persuade)
fling;the act of flinging
tramontane;a cold dry wind that blows south out of the mountains into italy and the western mediterranean
fun;activities that are enjoyable or amusing. 'i do it for the fun of it'. 'he is fun to have around'
mentholated salve;a salve containing menthol
shove ha penny;(british) a game in which coins or discs are slid by hand across a board toward a mark
scansion;analysis of verse into metrical patterns
security;measures taken as a precaution against theft or espionage or sabotage etc.. 'military security has been stepped up since the recent uprising'
sponge bath;you wash your body with a sponge or washcloth instead of in a bathtub
engineering;the practical application of science to commerce or industry
bother;an angry disturbance. 'he didn't want to make a fuss'. 'they had labor trouble'. 'a spot of bother'
harmony;agreement of opinions
converting;conversion resulting from the zeal of crusading advocacy of the gospel
fallback;to break off a military action with an enemy
work in;occasion when workers continue to work as a protest against e.g. proposed dismissal or closure of the factory
numbers racket;an illegal daily lottery
cruel and unusual punishment;punishment prohibited by the 8th amendment to the u.s. constitution. includes torture or degradation or punishment too severe for the crime committed
second battle of ypres;battle in world war i (1915). germans wanted to try chlorine (a toxic yellow gas) as a weapon and succeeded in taking considerable territory from the allied salient
prospect;a prediction of the course of a disease
title role;the role of the character after whom the play is named
tactical maneuver;a move made to gain a tactical end
medal play;golf scoring by total strokes taken
restraint;the act of restraining
collar;a figurative restraint. 'a collar on program trading in the stock market'
renunciation;a verbal act of renouncing
cowpens;battle in the american revolutionary war. americans under daniel morgan defeated the british
free for all;a noisy fight in a crowd
angiography;roentgenographic examination of blood vessels after injection of a radiopaque contrast medium. produces an angiogram
horse trading;the swapping of horses (accompanied by much bargaining)
approximation;an imprecise or incomplete account. 'newspapers gave only an approximation of the actual events'
shag;a lively dance step consisting of hopping on each foot in turn
welfare work;an organized activity to improve the condition of disadvantaged people in society
astrolatry;worship of planets or stars
boodle;a gambling card game in which chips are placed on the ace and king and queen and jack of separate suits (taken from a separate deck). a player plays the lowest card of a suit in his hand and successively higher cards are played until the sequence stops. the player who plays a card matching one in the layout wins all the chips on that card
effort;use of physical or mental energy. hard work. 'he got an a for effort'. 'they managed only with great exertion'
game show;a television or radio program in which contestants compete for awards
position;a job in an organization or hierarchy. 'he ocupied a post in the treasury'
mayoralty;the position of mayor
chinese checkers;a board game in which each player tries to move a set of marbles through a set of holes from one point of a six-pointed star to the opposite point
lockup;the act of locking something up to protect it
economic mobilization;mobilization of the economy
calisthenics;light exercise designed to promote general fitness
endearment;the act of showing affection
hair care;care for the hair: the activity of washing or cutting or curling or arranging the hair
preservation;the activity of protecting something from loss or danger
hohenlinden;a battle during the napoleonic wars (1800). the french defeated the austrians
purveyance;the act of supplying something
prosody;a system of versification
tutorship;teaching individually pupils (usually hired privately)
co option;the act of appointing summarily (with or without the appointee's consent)
group action;"action taken by a group of people"action taken by a group of people
depiction;representation by drawing or painting etc
invasion of iwo;a bloody and prolonged operation in which american marines landed and defeated japanese defenders (february and march 1945)
medicine;the learned profession that is mastered by graduate training in a medical school and that is devoted to preventing or alleviating or curing diseases and injuries. 'he studied medicine at harvard'
hail;precipitation of ice pellets when there are strong rising air currents
advertising;the business of drawing public attention to goods and services
timework;work paid for at a rate per unit of time
payment;the act of paying money
squabble;petty quarrel
misdeal;an incorrect deal
bloodless revolution;the revolution against james ii of england. there was little armed resistance to william and mary in england altho battles were fought in scotland and ireland (1688-1689)
surfing;the sport of riding a surfboard toward the shore on the crest of a wave
bible worship;worship of the bible
take;the act of photographing a scene or part of a scene without interruption
preserving;the activity of protecting something from loss or danger
painting;the act of applying paint to a surface. 'you can finish the job of painting faster with a roller than with a brush'
softball game;a game closely resembling baseball that is played on a smaller diamond and with a ball that is larger and softer
absorption;the absorbing of one cultural group into harmony with another
hunt;the pursuit and killing or capture of wild animals regarded as a sport
riffle;shuffling by splitting the pack and interweaving the two halves at their corners
embrace;a close affectionate and protective acceptance. 'his willing embrace of new ideas'. 'in the bosom of the family'
tying up;a act of securing an arriving vessel with ropes or anchors
venture;a commercial undertaking that risks a loss but promises a profit
baptism;a christian sacrament signifying spiritual cleansing and rebirth. 'most churches baptize infants but some insist on adult baptism'
acting;the performance of a part or role in a drama
performance;any recognized accomplishment. 'they admired his performance under stress'
fug;(british informal) an airless smoky smelly atmosphere
faith cure;care provided through prayer and faith in god
insurrection;organized opposition to authority. a conflict in which one faction tries to wrest control from another
subscription;agreement expressed by (or as if expressed by) signing your name
bid;an authoritative direction or instruction to do something
procurance;the act of getting possession of something. 'he was responsible for the procurement of materials and supplies'
numbers game;an illegal daily lottery
detrition;effort expended in rubbing one object against another
refueling;the activity of supplying or taking on fuel
principalship;the post of principal
histrionics;a deliberate display of emotion for effect
coating;the work of applying something. 'the doctor prescribed a topical application of iodine'. 'a complete bleach requires several applications'. 'the surface was ready for a coating of paint'.
coercion;using force to cause something: 'though pressed into rugby under compulsion i began to enjoy the game'. 'they didn't have to use coercion'
scouting;exploring in order to gain information
striptease;a form of erotic entertainment in which a person gradually undresses to music
laminectomy;surgical removal of the bony arches on one or more vertebrae
kick up;raising the feet backward with the hands on the ground. a first movement in doing a handstand
cultivation;production of food by preparing the land to grow crops
carron oil;formerly used to treat burns
primary censorship;armed forces censorship performed by personnel of a military unit on the personal communications of persons assigned to that unit
impoverishment;the act of making poor
mineral jelly;a semisolid mixture of hydrocarbons obtained from petroleum. used in medicinal ointment and for lubrication
cbc;counting the number of white and red blood cells and the number of platelets in 1 cubic millimeter of blood
batrachomyomachia;a silly altercation
flodden field;a battle in 1513. the english defeated the invading scots and james iv of scotland was killed
mastoidectomy;surgical removal of the mastoid process
kiss;a light glancing touch. 'there was a brief kiss of their hands in passing'
scrutiny;the act of examining something closely (as for mistakes)
procural;the act of getting possession of something. 'he was responsible for the procurement of materials and supplies'
game;a contest with rules to determine a winner. 'you need four people to play this game'
authorship;the act of creating written works. 'writing was a form of therapy for him'. 'it was a matter of disputed authorship'
rape conviction;conviction for rape
dissent;the act of protesting. a public (often organized) manifestation of dissent
stealing;avoiding detection by moving carefully
business activity;activity undertaken as part of a commercial enterprise
candlepin bowling;a bowling game using slender bowling pins
conjuring trick;an illusory feat. considered magical by naive observers
toss;the act of flipping a coin
contra danse;a type of folk dance in which couples are arranged in sets or face one another in a line
taking;the act of someone who picks up or takes something. 'the pickings were easy'. 'clothing could be had for the taking'
war;a series of conflicts (1618-1648) starting between german protestants and catholics and spreading until france and denmark and sweden were opposing the holy roman empire and spain
impact;the violent interaction of individuals or groups entering into combat
field sport;a sport that is played outdoors
livery;the care (feeding and stabling) of horses for pay
medical examination;a thorough physical examination. includes a variety of tests depending on the age and sex and health of the person
computer game;a game played against a computer
docudrama;a film or tv program presenting the facts about a person or event
seizure;the act of forcibly dispossessing an owner of property
low mass;a mass recited without music
self flagellation;punishment inflicted on yourself
blood count;the act of estimating the number of red and white corpuscles in a blood sample
due process;the administration of justice according to established rules and principles. based on the principle that a person cannot be deprived of life or liberty or property without appropriate legal procedures and safeguards
tv program;a program broadcast by television
wholesale;the selling of goods to merchants. usually in large quantities for resale to consumers
arthrography;roentgenographic examination of a joint after injection of radiopaque contrast medium. produces an arthrogram
magnetic resonance imaging;the use of nuclear magnetic resonance of protons to produce proton density images
presentment;the act of presenting something. 'he gave the customer a demonstration'
lashing;beating with a whip or strap or rope as a form of punishment
escapade;a wild and exciting undertaking (not necessarily lawful)
suppression;the conscious exclusion of unacceptable thoughts or desires
open hearth process;a process for making steel using an open-hearth furnace
hand to hand struggle;the act of engaging in close hand-to-hand combat. 'they had a fierce wrestle'. 'we watched his grappling and wrestling with the bully'
course of instruction;education imparted in a series of lessons or class meetings. 'he took a course in basket weaving'. 'flirting is not unknown in college classes'
throw;the throwing of an object in order to determine an outcome randomly. 'he risked his fortune on a throw of the dice'
dispossession;the expulsion of someone (such as a tenant) from land by process of law
emphasizing;the act of giving special importance or significance to something
worship of heavenly bodies;worship of planets or stars
begging;a solicitation for money or food (especially in the street by an apparently penniless person)
field;a particular kind of commercial enterprise. 'they are outstanding in their field'
grazing fire;fire approximately parallel to the ground. the center of the cone of fire does rise above 1 meter from the ground
molding;a preliminary sculpture in wax or clay from which a finished work can be copied
librarianship;the position of librarian
curb;the act of restraining power or action or limiting excess. 'his common sense is a bridle to his quick temper'
potshot;a shot taken at an easy or casual target (as by a pothunter)
intradermal injection;an injection into the skin
aerobic exercise;exercise that increases the need for oxygen
overwork;the act working too much or too long. 'he became ill from overwork'
publication;the business of publishing
short shrift;a brief and unsympathetic rejection. 'they made short shrift of my request'
counterattraction;a rival attraction
slam dancing;a form of dancing in which dancers slam into one another. normally performed to punk rock
breaking away;departing hastily
woman worship;worship of women
caporetto;battle of world war i (1917). italians were defeated by austro-german forces
production;(law) the act of exhibiting in a court of law. 'the appellate court demanded the production of all documents'
ancestor worship;worship of ancestors
grasp;the act of grasping. 'he released his clasp on my arm'. 'he has a strong grip for an old man'. 'she kept a firm hold on the railing'
compilation;the act of compiling (as into a single book or file or list). 'the job of compiling the inventory took several hours'
misappropriation;wrongful borrowing. 'his explanation was a misappropriation of sociological theory'
impression;an impressionistic portrayal of a person. 'he did a funny impression of a politician'
picking;the act of picking (crops or fruit or hops etc.)
lord s supper;a christian sacrament commemorating the last supper by consecrating bread and wine
earful;an outpouring of gossip
procedure;a process or series of acts especially of a practical or mechanical nature involved in a particular form of work: 'the operations in building a house'. 'certain machine tool operations'
disclosure;making something evident
word of honor;a promise. 'he gave his word'
jazz;music that originated in new orleans around 1900 and developed through increasingly complex styles
round;the activity of playing 18 holes of golf. 'a round of golf takes about 4 hours'
agriculture secretary;the position of the head of the department of agriculture. 'the post of secretary of agriculture was established in 1889'
alkalimetry;measuring the strength of an alkali or amount of alkali in a mixture or solution
quarantine;isolation to prevent the spread of infectious disease
interchange;reciprocal transfer of equivalent sums of money especially the currencies of different countries: 'he earns his living from the interchange of currency'
manufacturing;the organized action of making of goods and services for sale. 'american industry is making increased use of computers to control production'"the organized action of making of goods and services for sale. 'american industry is making increased use of computers to control production'"
direct fire;fire delivered on a target that is visible to the person aiming it
recount;an additional (usually a second) count. especially of the votes in a close election
hassle;an angry disturbance. 'he didn't want to make a fuss'. 'they had labor trouble'. 'a spot of bother'
pinch;the act of apprehending (especially apprehending a criminal). 'the policeman on the beat got credit for the collar'
prayer meeting;a service at which people sing hymns and pray together
battle of thermopylae;a famous battle in 480 bc. a greek army under leonidas was annihilated by the persians who were trying to conquer greece
favoritism;unfair treatment of a person or group on the basis of prejudice
spiritual rebirth;a spiritual enlightenment causing a person to lead a new life
job;a damaging piece of work: 'dry rot did the job of destroying the barn'. 'the barber did a real job on my hair'
fantan;a card game in which you play your sevens and other cards in sequence in the same suit as their sevens. you win if you are the first to use all your cards
petroleum jelly;a semisolid mixture of hydrocarbons obtained from petroleum. used in medicinal ointment and for lubrication
dominos;any of several games played with small rectangular blocks
role;the actions and activities assigned to or required or expected of a person or group: 'the function of a teacher'. 'the government must do its part' or 'play its role' or 'do its duty'
folk dance;a style of dancing that originated among ordinary people (not in the royal courts)
chance;a risk involving danger. 'you take a chance when you let her drive'
cardiac massage;an emergency procedure that employs rhythmic compression of the heart (either through the chest wall or (during surgery) directly to the heart) in an attempt to maintain circulation during cardiac arrest
affaire d honneur;a prearranged fight with deadly weapons by two people (accompanied by seconds) in order to settle a quarrel over a point of honor
diet;the act of restricting your food intake (or your intake of particular foods)
categorisation;the grouping of things by classes or categories
croquet;a game in which players hit a wooden ball through a series of hoops. the winner is the first to traverse all the hoops and hit a peg
push;the act of applying force in order to move something away. 'he gave the door a hard push'. 'the pushing is good exercise'
minor surgery;any surgical procedure that does not involve anesthesia or respiratory assistance
lacrosse;a game invented by american indians. now played by two teams who use long-handled rackets to catch and carry and throw the ball toward the opponents' goal
emancipation;liberation from any onerous controlling influence
house;play in which children take the roles of father or mother or children and pretend to interact like adults. 'the children were playing house'
irrigation;(medicine) cleaning a wound or body organ by flushing or washing out with water or a medicated solution
school assignment;a school task performed by a student to satisfy the teacher
balancing;getting two things to correspond. 'the reconciliation of his checkbook and the bank statement'
long whist;a card game for four players who form two partnerships. a pack of 52 cards is dealt and each side scores one point for each trick it takes in excess of six
high finance;large and complex financial transactions (often used with the implication that those individuals or institutions who engage in them are unethical)
flotation;financing a commercial enterprise by bond or stock shares
war;the waging of armed conflict against an enemy. 'thousands of people were killed in the war'
alternative medicine;the practice of medicine without the use of drugs. may involve self-awareness
legation;the post or office of legate
fairy story;a story about fairies. told to amuse children
combat mission;a mission to capture or defend something
magistracy;the position of magistrate
baseball;a game played with a bat and ball between two teams of 9 players. teams take turns at bat trying to score run
plan of attack;a formulation adopted in tackling a problem. 'his approach to every problem is to draw up a list of pros and cons'
socialisation;the act of meeting for social purposes. 'there was too much socialization with the enlisted men'
striking;a act of hitting one thing with another. 'repeated hitting raised a large bruise'. 'after three misses she finally got a hit'
self worship;worship of yourself
enactment;the passing of a law by a legislative body
scuffing;the act of scuffing (scraping or dragging the feet)
rationalization;systematic organization
ecm;electronic warfare undertaken to prevent or reduce an enemy's effective use of the electromagnetic spectrum
picture show;a form of entertainment that enacts a story by a sequence of images giving the illusion of continuous movement. 'they went to a movie every saturday night'. 'the film was shot on location'
fund raising drive;a campaign to raise money for some cause
newsreel;a short film and commentary about current events
captaincy;the post of captain
interior decoration;the trade of planning the layout and furnishings of an architectural interior
conveyance;the transmission of information
sequence;the action of following in order: 'he played the trumps in sequence'
thanksgiving;a short prayer of thanks before a meal
chin up;an arm exercise performed by pulling yourself up on a horizontal bar until your chin is level with the bar
equipping;the act of equiping with weapons in preparation for war
nautch;an intricate traditional dance in india performed by professional dancing girls
isolation;the act of isolating something
realisation;making real or giving the appearance of reality
detribalization;the act of causing tribal people to abandon their customs and adopt urban ways of living
bell ringer;something that exactly succeeds in achieving its goal. 'the new advertising campaign was a bell ringer'. 'scored a bull's_eye'. 'hit the mark'
concert;a performance of music by players or singers not involving theatrical staging
last respects;the act of expressing respect for someone who has died. 'he paid his last respects by standing quietly at the graveside'
insulation;the act of insulating for the purposes of protecting something
scat;singing jazz. the singer substitutes nonsense syllables for the words of the song and tries to sound like a musical instrument
ballroom dancing;any of a variety of social dances performed by couples in a ballroom
permissive waste;(law) reduction in the value of an estate caused by act or neglect
spring;a light springing movement upwards or forwards
pinball game;a game played on a sloping board. the object is to propel marbles against pins or into pockets
metaurus river;a battle during the second of the punic wars (207 bc). hannibal's brother hasdrubal was defeated by the romans which ended hannibal's hopes for success in italy
chieftaincy;the position of chieftain
plastic surgery;surgery concerned with therapeutic or cosmetic reformation of tissue
rendering;giving in acknowledgment of obligation
shy;a quick throw. 'he gave the ball a shy to the first baseman'
self realization;the fulfillment of your capacities
proconsulate;the position of proconsul
fantan;a chinese gambling game. a random number of counters are placed under a bowl and you gamble on how many will be left (0 or 1 or 2 or 3) modulo 4
yorktown;american revolution (1781): the british under cornwallis surrendered after a siege of three weeks by american and french troops
solo homer;a home run with no runners on base
education;the profession of teaching (especially at a school or college or university)
war to end war;a war between the allies (russia france british-empire italy us japan rumania serbia belgium greece portugal montenegro) and the central powers (germany austro-hungary turkey bulgaria) from 1914 to 1918
performance;the act of presenting a play or a piece of music or other entertainment. 'we congratulated him on his performance at the recital'
dispraise;the act of speaking contemptuously of
thaneship;the position of thane
retraining;training for a new occupation
concentrated fire;fire from two or more weapons directed at a single target or area (as fire by batteries of two or more warships)
interpretive dancing;a form of modern dance in which the dancer's movements depict an emotion or tell a story
solicitation;an entreaty addressed to someone of superior status. 'a solicitation to the king for relief'
n;a type of dance music originating in the 1950s. a blend of rhythm-and-blues with country-and-western
sculpture;making figures or designs in three dimensions
hebrew lesson;instruction in the hebrew language
drumfire;intense and continuous artillery fire
arrangement;the activity or result of distributing or disposing persons or things properly or methodically. 'in this new organization the container is much smaller'
enrolment;the act of enrolling
usurpation;seizing and holding (an office or powers) by force
electronic warfare support measures;electronic warfare undertaken under direct control of an operational commander to locate sources of radiated electromagnetic energy for the purpose of immediate threat recognition
leyte island;a battle in world war ii. the return of us troops to the philippines began with landings on leyte island in october 1944. first use of kamikaze aircraft by the japanese
confrontation;a hostile disagreement face-to-face
intercourse;communication between individuals
real estate business;the business of selling real estate
conquering;the act of conquering
sabre rattling;the ostentatious display of military power (with the implied threat that it might be used)
despoilment;the act of stripping and taking by force
high angle fire;fire from a cannon fired at an elevation greater than that for the maximum range
pottery;the craft of making earthenware
singing;the act of singing vocal music
manufacture;the act of making something (a product) from raw materials
puncturing;the act of puncturing or perforating
altercation;noisy quarrel
vendition;selling goods for a living
battle of chickamauga;a confederate victory in the american civil war (1863). confederate forces under braxton bragg defeated union forces
bass voice;the lowest adult male singing voice
diagnosis;identifying the nature or cause of some phenomenon
receipt;the act of receiving
call up;an order to report for military duty
fast one;a cunning or deceitful action or device. 'he played a trick on me'. 'he pulled a fast one and got away with it'
truancy;failure to attend (especially school)
incubation;maintaining something at the most favorable temperature for its development
sanction;a mechanism of social control for enforcing a society's standards
discharge;the act of venting
undercover work;the act of keeping a secret watch for intelligence purposes
draught;the act of moving a load by drawing or pulling
flurry;a light brief snowfall and gust of wind (or something resembling that). 'he had to close the window against the flurries'. 'there was a flurry of chicken feathers'
organisation;the activity or result of distributing or disposing persons or things properly or methodically. 'in this new organization the container is much smaller'
rain;water falling in drops from vapor condensed in the atmosphere
percussion;the act of playing drums. 'he practiced his drumming several hours every day'
hunting;the activity of looking thoroughly in order to find something or someone
enslaving;the act of making slaves of your captives
jogging;running at a jog trot as a form of exercise
engagement;a hostile meeting of opposing military forces in the course of a war. 'grant won a decisive victory in the battle of chickamauga'. 'he lost his romantic ideas about war when he got into a real engagement'
voice;"the sound made by the vibration of vocal folds modified by the resonance of the vocal tract. 'a singer takes good care of his voice'. 'the giraffe cannot make any vocalizations'"
picture;a form of entertainment that enacts a story by a sequence of images giving the illusion of continuous movement. 'they went to a movie every saturday night'. 'the film was shot on location'
security measures;measures taken as a precaution against theft or espionage or sabotage etc.. 'military security has been stepped up since the recent uprising'
motoring;the act of controlling and steering the movement of a vehicle or animal
monopolization;domination (of a market or commodity) to the exclusion of others
visit;an official call for inspection or supervision. 'the commissioner made visits to all the precinct stations'
costing;(british) cost accounting
strip poker;poker in which a player's losses are paid by removing an article of clothing
housework;the work of cleaning and running a house
brushing;the act of brushing your teeth. 'the dentist recommended two brushes a day'
synchronizing;an adjustment that causes something to occur or recur in unison
extension;an educational opportunity provided by colleges and universities to people who not enrolled as regular students
tomography;(medicine) obtaining pictures of the interior of the body
disappearance;the act of leaving secretly or without explanation
invigoration;the activity of giving vitality and vigour to something
playing;taking part in a game or sport or other recreation
puppetry;a stilted dramatic performance (as if by puppets)
square dance;american country dancing in which couples form squares
commitment;the act of binding yourself (intellectually or emotionally) to a course of action. 'his long commitment to public service'. 'they felt no loyalty to a losing team'
inhabitancy;the act of inhabiting
academic requirement;a requirement for admission to or completion of an academic program
mexican revolution;1910-1911
transposition;act of reversing the order or place of
catalog buying;buying goods to be shipped through the mail
renunciation;the act of renouncing
tax collection;the collection of taxes
spit;the act of spitting (forcefully expelling saliva)
situation;a job in an organization or hierarchy. 'he ocupied a post in the treasury'
tripos;final honors degree examinations at cambridge university
e mail;(computer science) a system of world-wide electronic communication in which a computer user can compose a message at one terminal that is generated at the recipient's terminal when he logs in
fulmination;thunderous verbal attack
battle of boyne;a battle in the war of the grand alliance in ireland in 1690. william iii of england defeated the deposed james ii and so ended stuart catholicism in england
bunny hug;a syncopated ballroom dance formerly popular in the us
dissent;(law) the difference of one judge's opinion from that of the majority. 'he expressed his dissent in a contrary opinion'
soccer;a football game in which two teams of 11 players try to kick or head a ball into the opponents' goal
look over;a swift cursory examination or inspection. 'i gave him the once-over'
gimmick;any clever (deceptive) maneuver. 'he would stoop to any device to win a point'
argument;a dispute where there is strong disagreement. 'they were involved in a violent argument'
carol;a joyful song (usually celebrating the birth of christ)
battle of brunanburh;battle in 937 when athelstan defeated the scots. recounted in the ballad of the battle of brunanburh in the anglo-saxon chronicles
rock and roll;a type of dance music originating in the 1950s. a blend of rhythm-and-blues with country-and-western
administration;a method of tending to (especially business) matters
scrutiny;a prolonged intense look
speleology;the pastime of exploring caves
apotheosis;the elevation of a person to the status of a god
helping hand;physical assistance. 'give me a hand with the chores'
sweepstake;a lottery in which the prize consists of the money paid by the participants
sport;the occupation of athletes who compete for pay
arrival;the act of arriving at a certain place. 'they awaited her arrival'
bicycling;riding a bicycle
social service;an organized activity to improve the condition of disadvantaged people in society
soft sell;suggestive or persuasive advertising
interaction;a mutual or reciprocal action. interacting
benevolence;an act intending or showing kindness and good will
objection;the act of protesting. a public (often organized) manifestation of dissent
job;a specific piece of work required to be done as a duty or for a specific fee: 'estimates of the city's loss on that job ranged as high as a million dollars'. 'the job of repairing the engine took several hours'. 'the endless task of classifying the samples'. 'the farmer's morning chores'
prayer;reverent petition to a deity
modeling;a representation of something (usually on a smaller scale)
lending;disposing of money or property with the expectation that the same thing (or an equivalent) will be returned
corregidor;the peninsula and island in the philippines where japanese forces besieged american forces in world war ii. us surrendered in 1942 and recaptured the area in 1945
cardiospasm;a spasm of the cardiac sphincter (between the esophagus and the stomach). if the cardiac sphincter does not relax during swallowing the passage of food into the stomach is obstructed
canalisation;management through specified channels of communication
fair;a traveling show. having sideshows and rides and games of skill etc.
feint;any distracting maneuver (as a mock attack)
order;(often plural) a command given by a superior (e.g., a military or law enforcement officer) that must be obeyed. 'the british ships dropped anchor and waited for orders from london'
spot;a job in an organization or hierarchy. 'he ocupied a post in the treasury'
frequency modulation;modulation of the frequency of the (radio) carrier wave
bickering;petty quarrel
catechism;a series of question put to an individual (such as a political candidate) to elicit their views
retrial;a new trial in which issues already litigated and to which the court has already rendered a verdict or decision are reexamined by the same court. occurs when the initial trial is found to have been improper or unfair due to procedural errors
reallotment;a new apportionment (especially a reallotment of us congressional seats on the basis of census results)
masonry;the craft of a mason
grant in aid;a grant from a central government to a local government
disinfection;treatment to destroy harmful microorganisms
fatism;discrimination against people who are overweight
reformation;rescuing from error and returning to a rightful course
suction curettage;a method of induced abortion. prior to the 14th week of gestation the embryo and placenta are removed by applying suction to the dilated cervix
authorisation;the act of authorizing
isometrics;muscle-building exercises involving muscular contractions against resistance
battle of magenta;a battle in 1859 in which the franco-sardinian forces under napoleon iii defeated the austrians under francis joseph
suicide pill;a poison pill with potentially catastrophic implications for the company it is intended to protect
netball;a team game that resembles basketball. a soccer ball is to be thrown so that it passes through a ring on the top of a post
ticktacktoo;a game in which two players alternately put crosses and circles in one of the compartments of a 3-by-3 board. the object is to get a row of three crosses or three circles before the opponent does
recruitment;the act of getting recruits. enlisting people for the army (or for a job or a cause etc.)
english civil war;english history: war between the parliamentarians and the royalists under charles i. 1644-1648
eurhythmics;the interpretation in harmonious bodily movements of the rhythm of musical compositions
question;an instance of questioning. 'there was a question about my training'. 'we made inquiries of all those who were present'
consecration;a solemn dedication to a service or a goal. 'his consecration to study'
territorialisation;the act of organizing as a territory
international affairs;affairs between nations. 'you can't really keep up with world affairs by watching television'
caveat;a warning against certain acts: 'a caveat against unfair practices'
inquiry;a systematic investigation of a matter of public interest
letter;a strictly literal interpretation (as distinct from the intention). 'he followed instructions to the letter'. 'he obeyed the letter of the law'
shipbuilding;the construction of ships
spectrographic analysis;the use of spectroscopes to analyze spectra
airpost;a system of conveying mail by aircraft
experiment;a venture at something new or different. 'as an experiment he decided to grow a beard'
battle of ivry;a battle (1590) in which the huguenots under henry iv of france defeated the catholics under the duke of mayenne
conferral;the act of conferring an honor or presenting a gift
taking possession;the act of occupying or taking possession of a building. 'occupation of a building without a certificate of occupancy is illegal'
rant;bombastic declamation
colloquium;an address to an academic meeting or seminar
causing;the act of causing something to happen
requirement;required activity. 'the requirements of his work affected his health'. 'there were many demands on his time'
action;an act by a government body or supranational organization. 'recent federal action undermined the segregationist position'. 'the united nations must have the power to propose and organize action without being hobbled by irrelevant issues'. 'the union action of emancipating southern slaves'
schooling;the act of teaching at school
delivery;the throwing of a baseball by a pitcher to a batter
mammography;a diagnostic procedure to detect breast tumors by the use of x rays
remission of sin;formal redemption as pronounced by a priest in the sacrament of penance
impasto;painting that applies the pigment thickly so that brush or palette knife marks are visible
allotment;the act of distributing by allotting or apportioning. 'the apportionment of seats in the house of representatives is based on the relative populaton of each state'
lenitive;remedy that eases pain and discomfort
prevailing wind;the predominant wind direction. 'the prevailing wind is from the southwest'
irruption;a sudden violent entrance. a bursting in. 'the recent irruption of bad manners'
penance;voluntary self-punishment in order to atone for some wrongdoing
mill;the act of grinding
cross country skiing;the sport of skiing across the countryside (rather than downhill)
saving;the activity of protecting something from loss or danger
commandership;the position of commander
road show;a show on tour
measure;the act or process of measuring. 'he made a careful measurement'. 'his mental measurings proved remarkably accurate'
delegacy;the appointment of a delegate
entertainment;an activity that entertains
tug;a sudden abrupt pull
contact;close interaction: 'they kept in daily contact'. 'they claimed that they had been in contact with extraterrestrial beings'
bidding contest;a series of competing bids
telint;intelligence derived from the interception and processing and analysis of foreign telemetry
reciprocity;mutual exchange of commercial or other privileges
prisoner of war censorship;military censorship of communication to and from prisoners of war and civilian internees held by the armed forces
punctuation;the use of certain marks to clarify meaning of written material by grouping words grammatically into sentences and clauses and phrases
bankruptcy;a legal process intended to insure equality among the creditors of a corporation declared in bankruptcy
long jump;the act of participating in an athletic contest in which you try to jump as far as possible with a running jump from a fixed mark
detection;the act of detecting something. catching sight of something
tenpin bowling;bowling down an alley at a target of ten wooden pins
prodigality;excessive spending
playing;the act of playing a musical instrument
decolonization;the action of changing from colonial to independent status
quiet;a period of calm weather. 'there was a lull in the storm'
reception;the act of catching a pass in football. 'the tight end made a great reception on the 20 yard line'
bingo;a game in which numbered balls are drawn and random and players cover the corresponding numbers on their cards
pet;using a computerized radiographic technique to examine the metabolic activity in various tissues (especially in the brain)
indoctrination;teaching someone to accept doctrines uncritically
bacchanal;a wild gathering involving excessive drinking and promiscuity
mutter;a complaint uttered in a low and indistinct tone
coral sea;a japanese defeat in world war ii (may 1942). the first naval battle fought entirely by planes based on aircraft carriers
armed forces censorship;military censorship of personal communications to or from persons in the armed forces
change ringing;ringing tuned bells in a fixed order that is continually changing
row;an angry dispute. 'they had a quarrel'. 'they had words'
free pardon;the formal act of liberating someone
shoemaking;the shoemaker's trade
battle of the bismarck sea;world war ii naval battle. allied land-based bombers destroyed a japanese convoy in the bismarck sea in march 1943
writing;the activity of putting something in written form: 'she did the thinking while he did the writing'
instructorship;the position of instructor
success;an attainment that is successful. 'his success in the marathon was unexpected'. 'his new play was a great success'
academicianship;the position of member of an honorary academy
battle of the somme;battle of world war ii (1944)
life class;an art class using a live human model
dodge;a quick evasive movement
due care;the care that a reasonable man would exercise under the circumstances. the standard for determining legal duty
sitcom;a situation comedy
confession;(roman catholic church) the act of a penitent disclosing his sinfulness before a priest in the sacrament of penance in the hope of absolution
impact;influencing strongly: 'they resented the impingement of american values on european culture'
musical theater;a play or film whose action and dialogue is interspersed with singing and dancing
radiocarbon dating;a chemical analysis used to determine the age of organic materials based on their content of the radioisotope carbon 14
camouflage;the act of concealing the identity of something by modifying its appearance. 'he is a master of disguise'
royal casino;a form of casino in which face cards have extra point values
mingling;the action of people mingling and coming into contact. 'all the random mingling and idle talk made him hate literary parties'
scuba diving;skin diving with scuba apparatus
schematization;providing a chart or outline of a system
whistling;the act of whistling a tune. 'his cheerful whistling indicated that he enjoyed his work'
pm;the position of the cabinet minister who is in charge of government affairs
symbolatry;worship of symbols
morale booster;anything that serves to increase morale. 'the sight of flowers every morning was my morale builder'
control;the activity of managing or exerting control over something. 'the control of the mob by the police was admirable'the activity of managing or exerting control over something. 'the control of the mob by the police was admirable'
talk;('talk about' is a less formal alternative for 'discussion of') discussion. 'his poetry contains much talk about love and anger'
ypres;battle in world war i (1917). an allied offensive which eventually failed because tanks bogged down in the waterlogged soil of flanders. germans introduced mustard gas which interfered with the allied artillery
cyclone;(meteorology) rapid inward circulation of air masses about a low-pressure center. circling counterclockwise in the northern hemisphere and clockwise in the southern
dismantling;the act of taking something apart (as a piece of machinery). 'russia and the us discussed the dismantling of their nuclear weapons'
puncture;the act of puncturing or perforating
calling into question;a challenge to defend what someone has said
siege of orleans;a long siege by the english was relieved by joan of arc in 1429
chalons;the battle in which attila the hun was defeated by the romans and visigoths in 451
six day war;arab-israeli tension erupted into a brief war in june 1967. israel emerged as a major power in the middle east
importing;the commercial activity of buying and bringing in goods from a foreign country
implosion therapy;a technique used in behavior therapy. client is flooded with experiences of a particular kind until becoming either averse to them or numbed to them
primary election;a preliminary election where delegates or nominees are chosen
battle of wits;a contest in which intelligence rather than violence is used
gyneolatry;worship of women
spade casino;a form of casino in which spades have the value of one point
invention;the act of inventing
delectation;act of receiving pleasure from something
world war;a war between the allies (australia belgium bolivia brazil canada china colombia costa-rico cuba czechoslovakia dominican-republic el-salvador ethiopia greece guatemala haiti honduras india iran iraq luxembourg mexico netherlands new-zealand nicaragua norway panama philippines poland south-africa united-kingdom us ussr yugoslavia) and the axis (albania bulgaria finland germany hungary italy japan rumania slovakia thailand) from 1939 to 1945
devising;the act that results in something coming to be. 'the devising of plans'. 'the fashioning of pots and pans'. 'the making of measurements'
teachership;the position of teacher
correction;treatment of a specific defect. 'the correction of his vision with eye glasses'
lotto;a game in which numbered balls are drawn and random and players cover the corresponding numbers on their cards
cuddle;a close and affectionate (and often prolonged) embrace
emigration;migration into a place
medical diagnosis;identification a disease from its symptoms
battle of ravenna;a battle between the french and an alliance of spaniards and swiss and venetians in 1512
picking;the act of someone who picks up or takes something. 'the pickings were easy'. 'clothing could be had for the taking'
side look;a glance sideways. 'she shot him an impatient side-glance'
posting;the transmission of a letter. 'the postmark indicates the time of mailing'
buying;the act of buying. 'buying equipment for the trip took several hours'
chieftainship;the position of chieftain
contravention;coming into conflict with
challenge;a formal objection to the selection of a particular person as a juror
mastership;the position of master
headship;(british) the position of headmaster or headmistress
reciprocation;mutual interaction. the activity of interchanging or reciprocating
antidote;stops or controls the effects of a poison
stress;an intense or violent exertion
track and field;participating in athletic sports performed on a running track or on the field associated with it
ordinary care;the care that a reasonable man would exercise under the circumstances. the standard for determining legal duty
ew;military action involving the use of electromagnetic energy to determine or exploit or reduce or prevent hostile use of the electromagnetic spectrum
vingt et un;a card game in which the object is to hold cards having a higher count than those dealt to the bank up to but not exceeding 21
battle of poitiers;the battle in 1356 in which the english under the black prince defeated the french
recording;the act of making a record (especially an audio record)
search and destroy mission;an operation developed for us troops in vietnam. troops would move through a designated area destroying troops as they found them
inter group communication;a channel for communication between groups. 'he provided a liaison with the geurillas'
hands;(with 'in') guardianship over. 'my fate is in your hands'. 'too much power in the president's hands'. 'the children are in the custody of their mother'
ten commandments;the biblical commandments of moses
preparation;activity leading to skilled behavior
tinning;the act of coating something with a protective layer of tin
densitometry;measuring the optical density of a substance by shining light on it and measuring its transmission
kindness;a kind act
drubbing;the act of inflicting corporal punishment with repeated blows
disbandment;the act of disbanding. 'the orchestra faced the prospect of disbandment'
jai alai;a basque or spanish game played in a court with a ball and a wickerwork racket
mistral;a strong north wind that blows in france during the winter
dish;an activity that you like or at which you are superior. 'chemistry is not my cup of tea'. 'his bag now is learning to play golf'. 'marriage was scarcely his dish'
hypnotism;the act of inducing hypnosis
digitalization;the administration of digitalis for the treatment of certain heart disorders
awarding;a grant made by a law court. 'he criticized the awarding of compensation by the court'
vaseline;a trademarked brand of petroleum jelly
cunaxa;battle in 401 bc when the persian king artaxerxes ii defeated his younger brother who tried to usurp the throne
succor;assistance in time of difficulty. 'the contributions provided some relief for the victims'
venesection;surgical incision into a vein
prelature;the office or station of a prelate
husbandry;the practice of cultivating the land or raising stock
outdoor sport;a sport that is played outdoors
cosmetic surgery;surgery concerned with therapeutic or cosmetic reformation of tissue
scuttlebutt;a report (often malicious) about the doings of other people. 'the divorce caused much gossip'
launching;the act of moving a newly-built vessel into the water for the first time
active air defense;air defense by the use aircraft or missiles or artillery or electronic countermeasures
soul kiss;an open-mouthed kiss in which your tongue is inserted into the other's mouth
refresher course;a course that reviews and updates a topic for those who have not kept abreast of developments
barrage fire;the heavy fire of artillery to saturate an area rather than hit a specific target. 'they laid down a barrage in front of the advancing troops'
trade;an equal exchange. 'we had no money so we hd to live by barter'
microscopy;research with the use of microscopes
hare and hounds;an outdoor game. the hares start off on a long run scattering bits of paper (the scent) and the hounds try to catch them before they reach a designated spot
documentary film;a film or tv program presenting the facts about a person or event
harvest;the yield from plants in a single growing season
fix;(informal) an intravenous injection of a narcotic drug
pocket veto;indirect veto of legislation by refusing to sign it
sinecure;an office that involves minimal duties
line drive double;a double resulting from a line drive
debarkation;the act of passengers and crew getting off of a ship or aircraft
conquest;the act of conquering
necropsy;an examination and dissection of a dead body to determine cause of death or the changes produced by disease
gay lib;the movement aimed at liberating homosexuals from legal or social or economic oppression
waste of effort;a useless effort
stretch;exercise designed to extend the limbs and muscles to their full extent
hit;a act of hitting one thing with another. 'repeated hitting raised a large bruise'. 'after three misses she finally got a hit'
confession of judgment;a judgment entered after a written confession by the debtor without the expense of ordinary legal proceedings
duel;a prearranged fight with deadly weapons by two people (accompanied by seconds) in order to settle a quarrel over a point of honor
shoe repairing;the shoemaker's trade
endurance contest;any long and arduous undertaking
candidacy;the campaign of a candidate to be elected
ecumenical movement;a movement among protestant groups aimed at universal christian unity
two bagger;a base hit on which the batter stops safely at second base. ' he hit a double to deep centerfield'
notification;informing by words
giving;disposing of property by voluntary transfer without receiving value in return
leg curl;an exercise designed to strength the flexor muscles of the leg
catching;playing the position of catcher on a baseball team
hazarding;the act of gambling. 'he did it on a bet'
accession;agreeing with. 'assenting to the congressional determination'
radiation;the act of radiating
hyphenation;connecting syllables and words by hyphens
thaw;warm weather following a freeze. snow and ice melt
studentship;the position of student
navigation;the guidance of ships or airplanes from place to place
baccarat;a card game played in casinos in which two or more punters gamble against the banker. the player wins who holds 2 or 3 cars that total closest to nine
outfitting;the act of renovating and fitting out a ship
artillery fire;fire delivered by artillery
lift;the act of raising something. 'he responded with a lift of his eyebrow'. 'fireman learn several different raises for getting ladders up'
refuge;act of turning to for assistance: 'have recourse to the courts'. 'an appeal to his uncle was his last resort'
duty;the social force that binds you to your obligations and the courses of action demanded by that force: 'we must instill a sense of duty in our children'. 'every right implies a responsibility. every opportunity, an obligation. every possession, a duty'- john d.rockefeller jr
frequency band;band of radio frequencies for e.g. transmitting a tv signal
residency;the act of dwelling in a place
lucknow;the british were besieged during the indian mutiny (1857)
orgy;a wild gathering involving excessive drinking and promiscuity
link;a channel for communication between groups. 'he provided a liaison with the geurillas'
thyroidectomy;surgical removal of the thyroid gland
patience;a card game played by one person
siege of vicksburg;a decisive battle in the american civil war (1863). after being besieged for nearly seven weeks the confederates surrendered
sop;a concession given to mollify or placate: 'the offer was a sop to my feelings'
therapy;(medicine) the act of caring for someone (as by medication or remedial training etc.). 'the quarterback is undergoing treatment for a knee injury'. 'he tried every treatment the doctors suggested'. 'heat therapy gave the best relief'
teaching reading;teaching beginners to read
cricket;a game played with a ball and bat by two teams of 11 players. teams take turns trying to score runs
lip balm;a balm applied to the lips
designation;the act of designating
grip;the act of grasping. 'he released his clasp on my arm'. 'he has a strong grip for an old man'. 'she kept a firm hold on the railing'
conducting;the direction of an orchestra or choir. 'he does not use a baton for conducting'
roll;the act of throwing dice
good turn;a favor for someone. 'he did me a good turn'
decalogue;the biblical commandments of moses
scheduled fire;prearranged fire delivered at a predetermined time
royal tennis;an ancient form of tennis played in a four-walled court
dark ground illumination;a form of microscopic examination of living material by scattered light. specimens appear luminous against a dark background
manumission;the formal act of freeing from slavery. 'he believed in the manumission of the slaves'
dangling;the act of suspending something (hanging it from above so it moves freely). 'there was a small ceremony for the hanging of the portrait'
scalage;estimation of the amount of lumber in a log
doubling;raising the stakes in a card game by a factor of 2. 'i decided his double was a bluff'
drunken revelry;a wild gathering involving excessive drinking and promiscuity
inculcation;teaching or impressing upon the mind by frequent instruction or repetition
surf casting;casting (artificial) bait out into the ocean with the waves breaking around you
carousal;a merry drinking party
keynote address;a speech setting forth the keynote
cold weather;a period of unusually cold weather
grounder;the act of hitting a baseball along the ground
advocacy;active support especially the act of pleading or arguing for something
health check;a thorough physical examination. includes a variety of tests depending on the age and sex and health of the person
male orgasm;an orgasm accompanied by the ejaculation of semen
shove;the act of shoving (giving a push to someone or something). 'he gave the door a shove'
corneal graft;the act of replacing a damaged or diseased cornea with another cornea taken from a donor (usually a donor who has recently died)
drill;systematic training by multiple repetitions. 'practice makes perfect'
notice;a request for payment. 'the notification stated the grace period and the penalties for defaulting'
immobilizing;the act of limiting movement or making incapable of movement: 'immobilizing the injured knee was necessary'. 'the storm caused complete immobilization of the rescue team'
outdoor game;an athletic game that is played outdoors
atonement;the act of atoning for sin or wrongdoing
assignment;the act of putting a person into a non-elective position. 'the appointment had to be approvied by the whole committee'
murkiness;an atmosphere in which visibility is reduced because of a cloud of some substance
athletics;an active diversion requiring physical exertion and competitionan active diversion requiring physical exertion and competition
snap;(football) putting the ball in play by passing it (between the legs) to a back
scottish reel;a lively dance of scottish highlanders. marked by circular moves and gliding steps
mechanization;a highly technical implementation. usually involving electronic hardware. 'automation replaces human workers by machines'
curse;an appeal to some supernatural power to inflict evil on someone or some group
temptation;the act of influencing by exciting hope or desire. 'his enticements were shameless'
assertion;the act of affirming or asserting or stating something
cloudburst;a heavy rain
wish;an expression of some desire or inclination. 'i could tell that it was his wish that the guests leave'. 'his crying was an indirect request for attention'
penny ante poker;poker played for small stakes
pounce;the act of pouncing
public lecture;a speech that is open to the public. 'he attended a lecture on telecommunications'
liaison;a channel for communication between groups. 'he provided a liaison with the geurillas'
steering;the act of guiding or showing the way
preventative;something that prevents or slows the course of an illness or disease. 'the docotr recommended several preventatives'
hydrometry;the measurement of specific gravity
deep supporting fire;fire on objectives not in the immediate vicinity your forces but with the objective of destroying enemy reserves and weapons nad interfering with the enemy command and supply and communications
lottery;players buy chances and prizes are distributed according to the drawing of lots
accenting;the act of giving special importance or significance to something
guardianship;the responsibility of a guardian or keeper. 'he left his car in my keeping'
preceptorship;the position of preceptor
equating;the act of regarding as equal
forage;the act of searching for food and provisions
sorting;grouping by class or kind or size
hiding;the activity of keeping something secret
adult education;a course (via lectures or correspondence) for adults who are not otherwise engaged in formal study
escapade;any carefree episode
skating;the sport of gliding on skates
cover crop;crop planted to prevent soil erosion and provide green manure
complaint;an expression of grievance or resentment
wash;(informal) any enterprise in which losses and gains cancel out
protection;kindly endorsement and guidance. 'the tournament was held under the auspices of the city council'
extra points;a score in american football made on a try for points after a touchdown
stock issue;(corporation law) the authorization and delivery of shares of stock for sale to the public or the shares thus offered at a particular time
catching;the act of detecting something. catching sight of something
judicial decision;the determination by a court of competent jurisdiction on matters submitted to it
asynchronous transfer mode;a means of digital communications that is capable of very high speeds. suitable for transmission of images or voice or video as well as data. 'atm is used for both lan and wan'
gambol;gay or light-hearted recreational activity for diversion or amusement. 'it was all done in play'. 'their frolic in the surf threatened to become ugly'
giving;the imparting of news or promises etc.. 'he gave us the news and made a great show of the giving'. 'giving his word of honor seemed to come too easily'
substituting;working as a substitute for someone who is ill or on leave of absence
history lesson;a less in the facts of history
communications technology;the activity of designing and constructing and maintaining communication systems
declamation;vehement oratory
bombardment;the heavy fire of artillery to saturate an area rather than hit a specific target. 'they laid down a barrage in front of the advancing troops'
teetotalism;abstaining from alcohol
pricking;the act of puncturing with a small point
leapfrog;one child bends down and another leaps over
aegospotami;a river in ancient thrace (now turkey). in the mouth of this river the spartan fleet under lysander destroyed the athenian fleet in the final battle of the peloponnesian war (404 bc)
fives;(british) a game resembling handball. played on a court with a front wall and two side walls
emersion;(astronomy) the reappearance of a celestial body after an eclipse
washup;the act of washing yourself (or another person)
cha cha cha;a modern ballroom dance from latin america. small steps and swaying movements of the hips
burlesque;a theatrical entertainment of broad and earthy humor. consists of comic skits and short turns (and sometimes striptease)
representation;an activity that stands as an equivalent of something or results in an equivalent
battle of pittsburgh landing;the second great battle of the american civil war (1862). the battle ended with the withdrawal of confederate troops but is was not a union victory
handstand;the act of supporting yourself by your hands alone in an upside down position
data communication;electronic transmission of information that has been encoded digitally (as for storage and processing by computers)
electioneering;persuasion of voters in a political campaign
volumetric analysis;quantitative analysis by the use of definite volumes of standard solutions or reagents
bricklaying;the craft of laying bricks
lecturing;teaching by giving a discourse on some subject (typically to a class)
butchering;the business of a butcher
sparring;making the motions of attack and defense with the fists and arms. a part of training for a boxer
designation;the act of designating or identifying something
captainship;the post of captain
feeling;actively exploring with the hands. 'he was feeling for the light switch'
tap dancing;a dance step tapped out audibly with the feet
carving;making figures or designs in three dimensions
orchestration;the act of arranging a piece of music for an orchestra
cabinetry;the craft of making furniture (especially furniture of high quality)
histrionics;a performance of play
extravaganza;any lavishly staged or spectacular entertainment
surfacing;emerging to the surface and becoming apparent
jazz;a style of dance music popular in the 1920s. similar to new orleans jazz but played by large bands
inhabitation;the act of inhabiting
application;a diligent effort. 'it is a job requiring serious application'
purification;the act of purging of sin or guilt. 'purification through repentance'
passage;the passing of a law by a legislative body
overexertion;the exertion of so much effort that discomfort or injury results
ring around a rosy;a children's game in which the players dance around in a circle and at a given signal all squat
round dance;a ballroom dance characterized by revolving movement
rocroi;a battle in the thirty years' war (1643). the french defeated the spanish invaders
proselytism;conversion resulting from the zeal of crusading advocacy of the gospel
chicago;a gambling card game in which chips are placed on the ace and king and queen and jack of separate suits (taken from a separate deck). a player plays the lowest card of a suit in his hand and successively higher cards are played until the sequence stops. the player who plays a card matching one in the layout wins all the chips on that card
interior secretary;the position of the head of the department of the interior. 'the position of interior secretary was created in 1849'
espial;the act of detecting something. catching sight of something
suit;a petition or appeal made to a person of superior status or rank
battle of plassey;the victory in 1757 by the british under clive over siraj-ud-daula that establish british supremacy over india
baritone;the second lowest adult male singing voice
embracing;the act of clasping another person in the arms (as in greeting or affection)
stops;a gambling card game in which chips are placed on the ace and king and queen and jack of separate suits (taken from a separate deck). a player plays the lowest card of a suit in his hand and successively higher cards are played until the sequence stops. the player who plays a card matching one in the layout wins all the chips on that card
disinterment;the act of digging up something (especially a corpse) that has been buried
sales campaign;an advertising campaign intended to promote sales
slight care;such care as a careless or inattentive person would exercise
investigating;the work of inquiring into something thoroughly and systematically
magnetic levitation;high-speed rail technology. train is suspended on a magnetic cushion above a magnetized track and so travels free of friction
damage control;an effort to minimize or curtail damage or loss
voice;expressing in coherent verbal form. 'the articulation of my feelings' or 'i gave voice to my feelings'
drollery;a quaint and amusing jest
drawing;players buy chances and prizes are distributed according to the drawing of lots
war game;a simulated battle for training military commanders
secretary of commerce and labor;head of a former executive department created in 1903 and divided into two departments in 1913
numbers pool;an illegal daily lottery
moving picture;a form of entertainment that enacts a story by a sequence of images giving the illusion of continuous movement. 'they went to a movie every saturday night'. 'the film was shot on location'
bunker hill;the first important battle of the american war of independence (1775). the british defeated the colonial forces
medical care;professional treatment for illness or injury
overfeeding;excessive feeding
denouncement;a public act of denouncing
devolution;the delegation of authority (especially from a central to a regional government)
dig;the act of touching someone suddenly with your finger or elbow. 'she gave me a sharp dig in the ribs'
first world war;a war between the allies (russia france british-empire italy us japan rumania serbia belgium greece portugal montenegro) and the central powers (germany austro-hungary turkey bulgaria) from 1914 to 1918
national insurance;social insurance program in britain. based on contributions from employers and employees. provides payments to unemployed and sick and retired people as well as medical services
rossbach;a battle in the seven years' war (1757). prussian forces under frederick the great defeated the armies of france and austria
services;performance of duties helpful to others. 'the mayor tried to maintain city services' or 'the medical services are excellent'
inchon;a battle in the korean war (1950). us forces landed at inchon
language requirement;a requirement that a student know certain languages
sortition;making a chance decision by using lots (straws or pebbles etc.) that are thrown or drawn
sanction;the act of final authorization. 'it had the sanction of the church'
evaluation;act of ascertaining or fixing the value or worth of
protest march;occasion when can express opposition by marching (usually on some government institution) without a license
sunshine;moderate weather. suitable for outdoor activities
clutches;the act of grasping. 'he released his clasp on my arm'. 'he has a strong grip for an old man'. 'she kept a firm hold on the railing'
cold spell;a period of unusually cold weather
counterblast;a vigorous and unrestrained response. 'her tirade provoked a counterblast from her husband'
primateship;the office of primate
anemography;recording anemometrical measurements
proceeding;the institution of a sequence of steps by which legal judgments are invoked
arbitrament;the act of deciding as an arbiter. giving authoritative judgment. 'they submitted their disagreement to arbitration'
berith;the jewish rite of circumcision
hire;the act of giving someone a job
saving;an act of economizing. reduction in cost. 'it was a small economy to walk to work every day' or 'there was a saving of 50 cents'
boring;the act of drilling
mismanagement;management that is careless or inefficient
mining;the act of extracting ores or coal etc from the earth
siege of syracuse;the roman siege of syracuse (214-212 bc) was eventually won by the romans who sacked the city (killing archimedes)
mixed farming;growing crops and feed and livestock all on the same farm
non pros;a judgment entered in favor of the defendant when the plaintiff has not continued his action
defence;the speech act of answering an attack on your assertions. 'his refutation of the charges was short and persuasive'. 'in defense he said the other man started it'
cosmolatry;worship of the cosmos
hastings;the battle in which william the conqueror (duke of normandy) defeated the saxons under king harold (1066)
predation;an act of plundering
stratagem;a maneuver in a game or conversation
authority;the act of final authorization. 'it had the sanction of the church'
seizure;the taking possession of something by legal process
round of golf;the activity of playing 18 holes of golf. 'a round of golf takes about 4 hours'
masterstroke;an achievement demonstrating great skill or mastery
preparation;preparatory school work done outside school (especially at home)
retribution;the act of taking revenge (harming someone in retaliation for something harmful that they have done) especially in the next life. 'vengeance is mine. i will repay, saith the lord'--romans 12:19. 'for vengeance i would do nothing. this nation is too great to look for mere revenge'--james garfield. 'he swore vengeance on the man who betrayed him'. 'the swiftness of divine retribution'
playfulness;activities that are enjoyable or amusing. 'i do it for the fun of it'. 'he is fun to have around'
syracuse;the roman siege of syracuse (214-212 bc) was eventually won by the romans who sacked the city (killing archimedes)
culdoscopy;endoscopic examination of a woman's pelvic organs by the insertion of a culdoscope through the vagina
round dance;a folk dance. dancers form a circle
auction;a variety of bridge in which tricks made in excess of the contract are scored toward game. now generally superseded by contract bridge
precipitation;the falling to earth of rain or snow or hail or sleet or mist
break of serve;(tennis) a score consisting of winning a game when your opponent was serving. 'he was up two breaks in the second set'
inclemency;weather unsuitable for outdoor activities
directed verdict;a verdict entered by the court in a jury trial without consideration by the jury
command guidance;a method of controlling the flight of a missile by commands originating from the ground or from another missile
drawing;the creation of artistic drawings. 'he learned drawing from his father'
laparotomy;surgical incision into the abdominal wall
aftercare;care and treatment of a convalescent patient
check;the act of inspecting or verifying. 'they made a check of their equipment'. 'the pilot ran through the check-out procedure'
cabinetwork;the craft of making furniture (especially furniture of high quality)
plating;the application of a thin coat of metal (as by electrolysis)
capitalisation;the sale of capital stock
insurgency;an organized rebellion aimed at overthrowing a constituted government through the use of subversion and armed conflict
belching;the forceful expulsion of something from inside. 'the belching of smoke from factory chimneys'
line management;administration of the line functions of an organization. administration of activities contributing directly to the organization's output
political campaign;the campaign of a candidate to be elected
sou wester;a strong wind from the southwest
draft;compulsory military service
trouncing;the act of inflicting corporal punishment with repeated blows
tin plating;the act of coating something with a protective layer of tin
pinball;a game played on a sloping board. the object is to propel marbles against pins or into pockets
heimlich maneuver;an emergency procedure to help someone who is choking because food is lodged in the trachea
appeal;earnest or urgent request
aegadean isles;islands west of sicily (now known as the egadi islands) where the romans won a naval victory over the carthaginians that ended the first punic war in 241 bc
conclusion of law;a finding as to the applicability of a rule of law to particular facts
career;the particular occupation for which you are trained
beginning rhyme;use of the same consonant at the beginning of each stressed syllable in a line of verse: 'around the rock the ragged rascal ran'
providence;the guardianship and control exercised by a deity. 'divine providence'
legalization;the act of legalizing
neologism;the act of inventing a word or phrase
shadow show;a drama executed by throwing shadows on a wall
passing;going by something that is moving in order to get in front of it. 'she drove but well but her reckless passing of every car on the road frightened me'
ludo;(british) a simple board game in which players move counters according to the throw of dice
concert dance;a theatrical representation of a story performed to music by ballet dancers
splattering;the act of splashing a (liquid) substance on a surface
martial art;any of several oriental arts of weaponless self-defense. usually practiced as a sport. 'he had a black belt in the martial arts'
passero;the spanish navy was destroyed by france and england while attempting to recover sicily and sardinia from italy (1719)
violin lesson;a less in playing the violin
tall tale;an improbable (unusual or incredible or fanciful) story
nonparticipation;withdrawing from the activities of a group
belittling;the act of belittling
quest;the act of searching for something. 'a quest for diamonds'
realisation;something that is realized. 'the victory was the realization of a whole year's work'
sou easter;a strong wind from the southeast
valediction;the act of saying farewell
lobectomy;surgical removal of a lobe from any organ of the body (as the lung or brain)
colostomy;a surgical operation that creates an opening from the colon to the surface of the body to function as an anus
vacuum aspiration;a method of induced abortion. prior to the 14th week of gestation the embryo and placenta are removed by applying suction to the dilated cervix
newmarket;a gambling card game in which chips are placed on the ace and king and queen and jack of separate suits (taken from a separate deck). a player plays the lowest card of a suit in his hand and successively higher cards are played until the sequence stops. the player who plays a card matching one in the layout wins all the chips on that card
hostility;acts of overt warfare. 'the outbreak of hostilities'
vindication;the act of vindicating. 'subsequent events have proved to be a vindication of his position'
tiling;the application of tiles to cover a surface
secretary of defense;the position of the head of the department of defense. 'the position of defense secretary was created in 1947'
rejoinder;a reply to a question or remark (especially a witty or critical one). 'it brought a sharp rejoinder from the teacher'
speech;a formal spoken communication delivered to an audience. 'he listened to an address on minor roman poets'
11 plus;(formerly in england) an examination taken by 11 and 12 year old students to select suitable candidates for grammar school
summons;a request to be present. 'they came at his bidding'
graduation;the act of arranging in grades
desegregation;the action of incorporating a racial or religious group into a community
defiance;a defiant act
intro;formally making a person known to another or to the public
channel;(often plural) a means of communication or access. 'it must go through official channels'. 'lines of communication were set up between the two firms'
darts;a game in which darts are thrown at a dartboard
exteriorisation;embodying in an outward form
ruling;the reason for a court's judgment (as opposed to the decision itself)
wage concession;an agreement to raise wages
overtaking;going by something that is moving in order to get in front of it. 'she drove but well but her reckless passing of every car on the road frightened me'
searching;the activity of looking thoroughly in order to find something or someone
devastation;plundering with excessive damage and destruction
investment;the act of investing. laying out money or capital in an enterprise with the expectation of profit
skirmish;a minor short-term fight
folk dancing;a style of dancing that originated among ordinary people (not in the royal courts)
place worship;worship of places
indirect fire;fire delivered on a target that is not itself used as the point of aim for the weapons
bolt;a sudden abandonment (as from a political party)
sealing;the act of treating something to make it repel water
regaining;getting something back again. 'upon the restitution of the book to its rightful owner the child was given a tongue lashing'
scatology;the chemical analysis of excrement (for medical diagnosis or for paleontological purposes)
contacting;the act of touching physically. 'her fingers came in contact with the light switch'
sobriety;abstaining from excess
office;a religious rite or service prescribed by ecclesiastical authorities. 'the offices of the mass'
toe dance;a dance performed on tiptoe
1 hitter;a game in which a pitcher allows the opposing team only one hit
tae kwon do;a korean martial art similar to karate
holy oil;a consecrated mixture of oil and balsam
tap dance;a dance step tapped out audibly with the feet
disposal;a method of tending to (especially business) matters
neology;the act of inventing a word or phrase
false verdict;a manifestly unjust verdict. not true to the evidence
attending;the act of being present (at a meeting or event etc.)
score;a seduction culminating in sexual intercourse. 'calling his seduction of the girl a 'score' was a typical example of male slang'
ceremony;the proper or conventional behavior on some solemn occasion. 'an inaugural ceremony'
precaution;warding off an impending threat
uprising;organized opposition to authority. a conflict in which one faction tries to wrest control from another
cupboard love;a show of affection motivated by selfishness
demonolatry;worship of devils
medicine;punishment for one's actions. 'you have to face the music'. 'take your medicine'
fohn;a warm dry wind that blows down the northern slopes of the alps
circus;performance given by a traveling company of acrobats clowns and trained animals. 'the children always love to go to the circus'
revelry;unrestrained merrymaking
prelim;an examination taken by graduate students to determine their fitness to continue
actuation;the act of propelling
borrowing;obtaining funds from a lender
rationing;the act of rationing
tomfoolery;foolish or senseless behavior
effleurage;a rhythmic stroking. 'effleurage of the abdomen is used in the lamaze method of childbirth'
calendar method;an attempt to control conception by refraining from intercourse during the period when ovulation is most likely to occur
mortar fire;artillery fire delivered by a mortar
exclusion;the act of expelling someone
bosie ball;a cricket ball bowled as if to break one way that actually breaks in the opposite way
philosophizing;the exposition (often superficially) of a particular philosophy
transmission;the act of sending a message. causing a message to be transmitted
salvage;the act of rescuing a ship or its crew or its cargo from a shipwreck or a fire
hanging;a form of capital punishment. victim is suspended by the neck from a gallows or gibbet until dead. 'in those days the hanging of criminals was a public entertainment'
menthol;a lotion containing menthol which gives it a mint flavoring
window washing;the activity of washing windows
battle of the somme;battle in world war i (1916)
crusade;a series of actions advancing a principle or tending toward a particular end. 'he supported populist campaigns'. 'they worked in the cause of world peace'. 'the team was ready for a drive toward the pennant'. 'the movement to end slavery'. 'contributed to the war effort'
fictionalization;writing in a fictional form
executing;putting a condemned person to death
flodden;a battle in 1513. the english defeated the invading scots and james iv of scotland was killed
sallying forth;a venture off the beaten path. 'a sally into the wide world beyond his home'
roll;the act of rolling something (as the ball in bowling)
ballet;a theatrical representation of a story performed to music by ballet dancers
dead march;a slow march to be played for funeral processions
allocation;the act of distributing by allotting or apportioning. 'the apportionment of seats in the house of representatives is based on the relative populaton of each state'
tilling;cultivation of the land in order to raise crops
monetization;establishing something (e.g. gold or silver) as the legal tender of a country
corneal transplant;the act of replacing a damaged or diseased cornea with another cornea taken from a donor (usually a donor who has recently died)
compulsion;using force to cause something: 'though pressed into rugby under compulsion i began to enjoy the game'. 'they didn't have to use coercion'
battle;a hostile meeting of opposing military forces in the course of a war. 'grant won a decisive victory in the battle of chickamauga'. 'he lost his romantic ideas about war when he got into a real engagement'
workshop;a brief intensive course for a small group. emphasizes problem solving
overacting;poor acting by a ham actor
discard;to throw out a useless card or to fail to follow suit
achievement;the act of accomplishing something
university extension;an educational opportunity provided by colleges and universities to people who not enrolled as regular students
outlook;the act of looking out
reel;a lively dance of scottish highlanders. marked by circular moves and gliding steps
rebirth;a spiritual enlightenment causing a person to lead a new life
abdominal delivery;the delivery of a fetus by surgical incision through the abdominal wall and uterus (from the belief that julius caesar was born that way)
dialysis;separation of substances in solution my means of their unequal diffusion through semipermeable membranes
viceroyship;the position of viceroy
line duty;activity contributing directly to the output of an organization
classification;the grouping of things by classes or categories
indirect immunofluorescence;a method of using fluorescence microscopy to detect the presence of an antigen indirectly
alto;the lowest female singing voice
reprieve;the act of reprieving. postponing or remitting punishment
place bet;a bet that a horse will finish a race no worse than second
challenge;a call to engage in a contest or fight
imprisonment;putting someone in prison or in jail as lawful punishment
fuss;an angry disturbance. 'he didn't want to make a fuss'. 'they had labor trouble'. 'a spot of bother'
initial rhyme;use of the same consonant at the beginning of each stressed syllable in a line of verse: 'around the rock the ragged rascal ran'
embarkment;the act of passengers and crew getting aboard a ship or aircraft
hardball;baseball as distinguished from softball
measurement;the act or process of measuring. 'he made a careful measurement'. 'his mental measurings proved remarkably accurate'
world war;a war between the allies (russia france british-empire italy us japan rumania serbia belgium greece portugal montenegro) and the central powers (germany austro-hungary turkey bulgaria) from 1914 to 1918
manoeuvre;a move made to gain a tactical end
orchestration;an arrangement of events that attempts to achieve a maximum effect. 'the skillful orchestration of his political campaign'
autosexing;(especially of domestic fowl) breeding to reveal differential sex characteristics at hatching
relocation;transportation of (household or office) belongings to a new address
assent;agreement with a statement or proposal. 'he gave his assent eagerly'. 'a murmur of consent from the assembly'
aversion therapy;any technique of behavior modification that uses unpleasant stimuli in a controlled fashion to alter behavior in a therapeutic way. primarily used for alcoholism or drug abuse (but with little success)
high;an air mass of higher than normal pressure. 'the east coast benefits from a bermuda high'
attack;the beginning of an offensive. 'the attack began at dawn'
moderate breeze;wind moving 13-18 knots. 4 on the beaufort scale
drizzle;very light rain. stronger than mist but less than a shower
superintendence;management by overseeing the performance or operation of a person or group
quoits;a game in which quoits or horseshoes are thrown at a stake in the ground in the hope of encircling it
gambling game;a game that involves gambling
thermopylae;a famous battle in 480 bc. a greek army under leonidas was annihilated by the persians who were trying to conquer greece
touring;the business of providing services to tourists. 'tourism is a major business in bermuda'
discarding;getting rid something that is regarded as useless or undesirable
place;the function or position properly or customarily occupied or served by another: 'can you go in my stead?'. 'took his place'. 'in lieu of'
reification;regarding something abstract as a material thing
corneal gaft;a surgical procedure in which part or all of the cornea is replaced by healthy corneal tissue from a donor
issue;the act of issuing printed materials
trad;(brit) traditional jazz as revived in the 1950s
facial;care for the face that usually involves cleansing and massage and the application of cosmetic creams
painting;making a picture with paints. 'he studied painting and sculpture for many years'
ambush;the act of concealing yourself and lying in wait to attack by surprise
dangerous undertaking;a wild and exciting undertaking (not necessarily lawful)
dive;a headlong plunge into water
military ceremony;a military custom performed in observance of some event or anniversary
architecture;the profession of designing buildings and environments with consideration for their esthetic effect
olympic games;the ancient panhellenic celebration at olympia in honor of zeus. held every 4 years beginning in 472 bc
women s liberation movement;the movement aimed at equal rights for women
rubber necking;going about to look at places of interest
intrusion;entrance by force or without permission or welcome
heroine;the main good female character in a work of fiction
entering;the act of entering. 'she made a grand entrance'
coming;esp. of something momentous. 'the advent of the computer'
retreat;(military) withdrawal to a more favorable position
bagatelle;(british) a table game in which short cues are used to knock balls into holes that are guarded by wooden pegs. penalties are incurred if the pegs are knocked over
ether;a medium that was once supposed to fill all space and to support the propagation of electromagnetic waves
priming;the act of making something ready
talking picture;a movie with synchronized speech and singing
dramatic production;a performance of a drama
ruggedization;the act of making a piece of equipment rugged (strengthening to resist wear or abuse)
benediction;the act of praying for divine protection
legal separation;the cessation of cohabitation of man and wife
slip;the act of avoiding capture (especially by cunning)
harvest;"the gathering of a ripened crop"the gathering of a ripened crop
intervention;the act of intervening (as to mediate a dispute)
questioning;a request for information
waggery;a quaint and amusing jest
rebuttal;the act of refuting by offering a contrary contention or argument
pawn;borrowing and leaving an article as security for repayment of the loan
deanery;the position or office of a dean
locking;the act of locking something up to protect it
comparing;examining resemblances or differences
formation;the fabrication of something in a particular shape
square bashing;(british military slang) drill on a barracks square
pass;success in satisfying a test or requirement. 'his future depended on his passing that test'. 'he got a pass in introductory chemistry'
patronage;the business given to a commercial establishment by its customers: 'even before noon there was a considerable patronage'
viewing;a vigil held over a corpse the night before burial. 'there's no weeping at an irish wake'
libation;the act of pouring a liquid offering (especially wine) as a religious ceremony
single entry;a simple bookkeeping system. transactions are entered in only one account
moon shot;the launching of a spacecraft to the moon
lap;touching with the tongue
clandestine operation;an intelligence operation so planned and executed as to insure concealment
harmonisation;singing in harmony
search mission;a mission to discover something
eucharist;a christian sacrament commemorating the last supper by consecrating bread and wine
taking hold;the act of gripping something firmly with the hands
chapel service;a service conducted in a chapel. 'he was late for chapel'
stickball game;a form of baseball played in the streets with a rubber ball and broomstick handle
natural;(in craps) a first roll of 7 or 11 that immediately wins the stake
sending;causing something to go. 'the cost of sending their children to college'
waterproofing;the act of treating something to make it repel water
prehension;the act of gripping something firmly with the hands
fabrication;writing in a fictional form
attorney general;the position of the head of the justice department and the chief law enforcement officer of the united states. 'the post of attorney general was created in 1789'
table tennis;a game resembling tennis but played on a table with paddles and a light hollow ball
northwester;a wind from the northwest
thing;an action. 'how could you do such a thing?'
pharsalus;caesar defeated pompey in 48 bc
address;a formal spoken communication delivered to an audience. 'he listened to an address on minor roman poets'
banging;the act of subjecting to strong attack
synchronization;coordinating by causing to indicate the same time. 'the synchronization of their watches was an important preliminary'
alphabetisation;the act of putting in alphabetical order
reservation;the act of keeping back or setting aside for some future occasion
articulation;expressing in coherent verbal form. 'the articulation of my feelings' or 'i gave voice to my feelings'
zephyr;a slight wind (usually refreshing). 'the breeze was cooled by the lake'
hostile takeover;a takeover that is resisted by the management of the target company
belly flopper;a dive in which the abdomen bears the main force of impact with the water
kwanza;a festival featuring african-american culture. celebrated between christmas and new years
inquiry;an instance of questioning. 'there was a question about my training'. 'we made inquiries of all those who were present'
walkover;backbends combined with handstands
antitrust case;a legal action brought against parties who are charged with limiting free competition in the market place
monte;a gambling card game of spanish origin. 3 or 4 cards are dealt face up and players bet that one of the will be matched before the others as the cards are dealt from the pack one at a time
dance;taking a series of rhythmical steps (and movements) in time to music
retirement;withdrawal for prayer and study and meditation. 'a religous retreat'
transaction;the act of transacting within or between groups (as carrying on commercial activities). 'no transactions are possible without him'. 'he has always been honest is his dealings with me'"an action with at least two agents and a patient having other actions as parts. the patient partecipant is exchanged between the agents.""the act of transacting within or between groups (as carrying on commercial activities). 'no transactions are possible without him'. 'he has always been honest is his dealings with me'"
military press;a weightlift in which the barbell is lifted to shoulder height and then smoothly lifted overhead
situation comedy;a humorous television program based on situations that could arise in everyday life
castigation;verbal punishment
occupancy;an act of being a tenant or occupant
spadework;dull or routine preliminary work preparing for an undertaking
literal interpretation;an interpretation based on the exact wording
battle of the coral sea;a japanese defeat in world war ii (may 1942). the first naval battle fought entirely by planes based on aircraft carriers
dramatics;the art of writing and producing plays
hold;the act of grasping. 'he released his clasp on my arm'. 'he has a strong grip for an old man'. 'she kept a firm hold on the railing'
self sacrifice;acting with less concern for yourself than for the success of the joint activity
meeting;the social act of assembling for some common purpose. 'his meeting with the salesmen was the high point of his day'
stratification;the act or process or arranging persons into classes or social strata
shunning;deliberately avoiding
hiring;the act of giving someone a job
warning of attack;(military) a warning to national policy makers that an enemy intends to launch an attack in the near future
sob story;a sentimental story or personal distress. designed to arouse sympathy
internment;placing private property in the custody of an officer of the law
watching;a patient look
joke;activity characterized by good humor
civic responsibility;the responsibilities of a citizen
match play;golf scoring by holes won
suit;a man's courting of a woman. seeking the affections of a woman (usually with the hope of marriage). 'its was a brief and intense courtship'
communisation;the organization of a nation of the basis of communism
approach;a formulation adopted in tackling a problem. 'his approach to every problem is to draw up a list of pros and cons'
brush;the act of brushing your teeth. 'the dentist recommended two brushes a day'
airmail;a system of conveying mail by aircraft
jive;a style of jazz played by big bands popular in the 1930s. flowing rhythms but less complex than later styles of jazz
work study;an analysis of a specific job in an effort to find the most efficient method in terms of time and effort
recapture;a legal seizure by the government of profits beyond a fixed amount
acquisition;the act of contracting or assuming or acquiring possession of something. 'the acquisition of wealth'. 'the acquisition of one company by another'
census;a period count of the population
coaching;the job of a professional coach
inaugural address;an address delivered at an inaugural ceremony (especially by a us president)
operation;a therapeutic procedure with instruments to repair damage or arrest disease in a living body. 'they will schedule the operation as soon as an operating room is available'. 'he died while undergoing surgery'
zinc ointment;an ointment containing zinc that is used to treat certain skin diseases
brith;the jewish rite of circumcision
insulin shock treatment;the administration of sufficient insulin to induce convulsions and coma
austerlitz;a decisive battle during the napoleonic campaigns (1805). the french under napoleon defeated the russian and austrian armies of czar alexander i and emperor francis ii
foehn;a warm dry wind that blows down the northern slopes of the alps
latria;worship given to god alone
risky venture;a wild and exciting undertaking (not necessarily lawful)
consonant rhyme;the repetition of consonants (or consonant patterns) especially at the ends of words
martial music;brisk marching music suitable for troops marching in a military parade
east wind;a wind from the east
oral presentation;delivering an address to a public audience. 'the people came to see the candidates and hear the speaking'
disbarment;the act of expelling a lawyer from the practice of law
c section;the delivery of a fetus by surgical incision through the abdominal wall and uterus (from the belief that julius caesar was born that way)
carrot;promise of reward as in 'carrot and stick'. 'used the carrot of subsidized housing for the workers to get their vote'
netting;creating netting
withdrawal;the act of withdrawing
industry;the organized action of making of goods and services for sale. 'american industry is making increased use of computers to control production'"the organized action of making of goods and services for sale. 'american industry is making increased use of computers to control production'"
meshing;the act of interlocking or meshing. 'an interlocking of arms by the police held the crowd in check'
sharing;sharing thoughts and feelings
immersion;a form of baptism in which part or all of a person's body is submerged
deerstalking;stalking deer
bowing;managing the bow in playing a stringed instrument. 'the violinist's bowing was excellent'
banning;an official prohibition
rank order;an arrangement according to rank
withdrawal;a retraction of a previously held position
consummation;the act of bringing to completion or fruition
coup de main;an attack without warning
business;"the activity of providing goods and services involving financial and commercial and industrial aspects. 'computers are now widely used in business'"the activity of providing goods and services involving financial and commercial and industrial aspects. 'computers are now widely used in business'
short whist;a card game for four players who form two partnerships. a pack of 52 cards is dealt and each side scores one point for each trick it takes in excess of six
action;a military engagement. 'he saw action in korea'
formalisation;the act of making formal (as by stating formal rules governing classes of expressions)
town planning;determining and drawing up plans for the future physical arrangement and condition of a community
world war i;a war between the allies (russia france british-empire italy us japan rumania serbia belgium greece portugal montenegro) and the central powers (germany austro-hungary turkey bulgaria) from 1914 to 1918
remedy;a medicine or therapy that cures disease or relieve pain
metrical unit;a group of 2 or 3 syllables forming the basic unit of poetic rhythm
flip;(sports) the act of throwing the ball to another member of your team. 'the pass was fumbled'
impressment;the act of coercing someone into government service
randomisation;an deliberately haphazard arrangement of observations so as to simulate chance
custody battle;litigation to settle custody of the children of a divorced couple
charge;a impetuous rush toward someone or something. 'the wrestler's charge carried him past his adversary'. 'the battle began with a cavalry charge'
battle of maldon;a battle in which the danes defeated the east saxons in 991. celebrated in an old english poem
numeration;naming numbers
brawl;a noisy fight in a crowd
hospitalization;medical care in a hospital
transmission channel;a path over which electrical signals can pass
dumping;selling goods abroad at a price below that charged in the domestic market
mezzo;the female singing voice between contralto and soprano
marengo;a battle in 1800 in which the french under napoleon bonaparte won a great victory over the austrians
stomach exercise;exercise designed to strengthen the abdominal muscles
sandblast;a blast of wind laden with sand
swim;the act of swimming
secretary of agriculture;the position of the head of the department of agriculture. 'the post of secretary of agriculture was established in 1889'
photography;the act of taking and printing photographs
withdrawal method;a contraceptive method in which coitus is initiated but the penis is deliberately withdrawn before ejaculation
round;(often plural) a series of professional calls (usually in a set order). 'the doctor goes on his rounds first thing every morning'. 'the postman's rounds'. 'we enjoyed our round of the local bars'
disarming;act of reducing or depriving of arms: 'the disarmament of the aggressor nations must be complete'
pass;(baseball) an advance to first base by a batter who receives four balls. 'he worked the picher for a base on balls'
double negative;a grammatically substandard but emphatic negative. 'i don't never go'
penny ante;poker played for small stakes
youth movement;political or religious or social reform movement or agitation consisting chiefly of young people
balsam;a fragrant ointment containing a balsam resin
laryngectomy;surgical removal of part or all of the larynx (usually to treat cancer of the larynx)
anointing of the sick;a catholic sacrament. a priest anoints a dying person with oil and prays for salvation
counselorship;the position of counselor
vote;a choice that is made by voting. 'there were only 17 votes in favor of the motion'
soft shoe dancing;tap dancing wearing soft-soled shoes
germ warfare;the use of harmful bacteria as a weapon
unauthorized absence;unauthorized military absence
intravenous injection;an injection into a vein
fistfight;a fight with bare fists
frisk;the act of searching someone for concealed weapons
fattism;discrimination against people who are overweight
tree worship;worship of trees
surveillance;close observation of a person or group
bender;a baseball thrown with spin so that its path curves as it approach the batter
humming;the act of singing with closed lips
autogenic therapy;training patients in self-induced relaxation
cautery;the act of coagulating blood and destroying tissue with a hot iron or caustic agent or by freezing
no hit game;a game in which a pitcher allows the opposing team no hits
maneuver;a military training exercise
counteroffensive;a large scale offensive (more than a counterattack) undertaken by a defending force to seize the initiative from an attacking force
cat;a method of examining body organs by scanning them with x rays and using a computer to construct an image
poitiers;the battle in 1356 in which the english under the black prince defeated the french
detention;restraint of a person's liberty
management;the act of managing something. 'he was given overall management of the program'. 'is the direction of the economy a function of government?'
woodworking;the craft of a carpenter: making things out of wood
rain check;a promise that an unaccepted offer will be renewed in the future
surfriding;the sport of riding a surfboard toward the shore on the crest of a wave
sculling;rowing by a single oarsman in a racing shell
extension;the spreading of something (a belief or practice) into new regions
play;gay or light-hearted recreational activity for diversion or amusement. 'it was all done in play'. 'their frolic in the surf threatened to become ugly'
chemical defense;procedures involved in taking defensive measures against attacks using chemical agents
panacea;a remedy for all ills or diseases
episode;a part of a broadcast serial
diatribe;thunderous verbal attack
keeping;the responsibility of a guardian or keeper. 'he left his car in my keeping'
pedicure;professional care for the feet and toenails
biological warfare;the use of bacteria or viruses of toxins to destroy men and animals or food
desktop publishing;(computer science) the use of microcomputers with graphics capacity to produce printed materials
pyrolatry;worship of fire
transplantation;an operation moving an organ from one person (the donor) to another (the recipient)
rubdown;the act of rubbing down
marshalship;the post of marshall
workout;the activity of exerting you muscles in various was to keep fit. 'the doctor recommended regular exercise'. 'he did some exercising'. 'the physical exertion required by his work kept him fit'
pleasure;an activity that affords enjoyment. 'he puts duty before pleasure'
uplink;a transmission from earth to a spacecraft or the path of such a transmission
cesarian section;the delivery of a fetus by surgical incision through the abdominal wall and uterus (from the belief that julius caesar was born that way)
sideslip;a flight maneuver. aircraft slides sideways in the air
chanting;the act of singing in a monotonous tone
anointment;the act of applying oil or an oily liquid
filial duty;duty of a child to its parents
security review;counterintelligence achieved by banning or deleting any information of value to the enemy
grading;changing the ground level to a smooth horizontal or gently sloping surface
grooming;the activity of getting dressed
driving force;the act of applying force to propel something. 'after reaching the desired velocity the drive is cut off'
breakthrough;a penetration of an enemy's defense in depth and strength
divulgement;the act of divulging something
danse du ventre;a middle eastern dance in which the dancer makes sensuous movements of the hips and abdomen
lis pendens;a pending lawsuit
quantification;the act of discovering or expressing the quantity of something
flying mare;a wrestling maneuver
hoofing;dancing in which the steps are more important than gestures or postures
shuffle;the act of mixing cards haphazardly
exposition;an interpretation of the meaning of something
schooling;the training of an animal (especially the training of a horse for dressage)
do si do;a square-dance figure. two dancers approach each other and circle back to back before returning to their original places
slave traffic;traffic in slaves. especially in black africans transported to america in the 16th to 19th centuries
rodomontade;vain and empty boasting
hauling;the activity of transporting goods by truck
exile;the act of expelling a person from their native land
behalf;as the agent of or on someone's part. usually expressed as 'on behalf of' rather than 'in behalf of': 'the guardian signed the contract on behalf of the minor child'. 'this letter is written on behalf of my client'
holy orders;the sacrament of ordination
drafting;writing a first version to be filled out and polished later
defense;the speech act of answering an attack on your assertions. 'his refutation of the charges was short and persuasive'. 'in defense he said the other man started it'
submarine pitch;a pitch thrown sidearm instead of overhead
favouritism;unfair treatment of a person or group on the basis of prejudice
dissension;disagreement among those expected to cooperate
triage;sorting and allocating aid on the basis of need for or likely benefit from medical treatment or food
exposure;the disclosure of something secret. 'they feared exposure of their campaign plans'
relegation;mild banishment. consignment to an inferior position. 'he has been relegated to a post in siberia'
yom kippur war;egypt and syria attacked israel in october 1973 (on yom kippur). israel counterattacked and drove the syrians back and crossed the suez canal into egypt
belch;a reflex that expels wind noisily from the stomach through the mouth
probate;the act of proving that an instrument purporting to be a will was signed and executed in accord with legal requirements
terrain intelligence;tactical intelligence on the natural and man-made characteristics of an area
perception;becoming aware of something via the senses
account;the act of informing by verbal report. 'he heard reports that they were causing trouble'. 'by all accounts they were a happy couple'
communion;reverent petition to a deity
ordination;the act of ordaining
field game;an outdoor game played on a field of specified dimensions
position;the act of putting something in a certain place or location
taking over;acquisition of property by descent or by will
viaticus;purchasing insurance policies for cash from terminally ill policy holders
association football;a football game in which two teams of 11 players try to kick or head a ball into the opponents' goal
modelling;a representation of something (usually on a smaller scale)
dismantlement;the act of taking something apart (as a piece of machinery). 'russia and the us discussed the dismantling of their nuclear weapons'
bender;an occasion for heavy drinking. 'they went on a bust that lasted three days'
high low;poker in which the high and low hands split the pot
assault;close fighting during the culmination of a military attack
lace making;act or process or making tatting or handmade lace
stocktaking;making an itemized list of merchandise or supplies on hand. 'the inventory took two days'
naming;the verbal act of naming. 'the part he failed was the naming of state capitals'
levanter;an easterly wind in the western mediterranean area
device;any clever (deceptive) maneuver. 'he would stoop to any device to win a point'
ablation;surgical removal of a body part or tissue
lodging;the act of lodging
confuting;the act of determining that something is false
canalization;the production of a canal or a conversion to canals
yield;production of a certain amount
symbolizing;the act of representing something with a symbol
exhortation;the act of exhorting. an earnest attempt at persuasion
boccie;italian lawn bowling (played on a long narrow dirt court)
last resort;french for 'worst going'
rodeo;an exhibition of cowboy skills
fix;a determination of the location of something. 'he got a good fix on the target'
calmness;an absence of strong winds or rain
strike;a pitch that is in the strike zone and that the batter does not hit. 'this pitcher throws more strikes than balls'
blast;a strong current of air. 'the tree was bent almost double by the gust'
circulation;opening to public discussion and debate
hide and go seek;a child covers his eyes while the other players hide then tries to find them
worship;the activity of worshipping
beguilement;an entertainment that provokes pleased interest and distracts you from worries and vexations
ritual dance;a dance that is part of a religious ritual
domination;social control by dominating
fining;the act of imposing a fine
tasting;distinguishing a taste by means of the taste buds. 'he loved the smell and taste of fresh bread'. 'a wine tasting'
lecture;a speech that is open to the public. 'he attended a lecture on telecommunications'
fire drill;an exercise intended to train people in duties and escape procedures to be followed in case of fire
telemetry;automatic transmission and measurement of data from remote sources by wire or radio or other means
battle of soissons reims;a battle in world war i (may 1918). the germans tried to attack before the american numbers were too great to defeat. the tactical success of the germans proved to be a strategic failure
elusion;the act of avoiding capture (especially by cunning)
electronic communication;communication by computer
first reading;the first presentation of a bill in a legislature
stocking;the activity of supplying a stock of something. 'he supervised the stocking of the stream with trout'
lexington and concord;the first battle of the american revolution (april 19, 1775)
spoilation;the act of stripping and taking by force
gavotte;an old formal french dance in quadruple time
decampment;breaking camp
petersburg campaign;the final campaign of the american civil war (1864-65). union forces under grant besieged and finally defeated confederate forces under lee
enlisting;the act of getting recruits. enlisting people for the army (or for a job or a cause etc.)
bocce;italian lawn bowling (played on a long narrow dirt court)
heart surgery;any surgical procedure involving the heart
supplying;the activity of supplying or providing something"the activity of supplying or providing something"
concealment;the activity of keeping something secret
no;a negative. 'his no was loud and clear'
direct discourse;a report of the exact words used in a discourse. e.g., 'he said 'i am a fool''
lip synch;combining audio and video recording in such a way that the sound is perfectly synchronized with the action that produced it. especially synchronizing the movements of a speaker's lips with the sound of his speech
climb down;a retraction of a previously held position
advent;esp. of something momentous. 'the advent of the computer'
display;something shown to the public. 'the museum had many exhibits of oriental art'
lamination;bonding thin sheets together
whitewash;the act of vindicating. 'subsequent events have proved to be a vindication of his position'
spare time activity;an auxiliary activity
engraving;making engraved or etched plates and printing designs from them
canonisation;(roman catholic church and eastern orthodox church) the act of admitting a deceased person into the canon of saints
collecting;the act of gathering something together"the act of gathering something together"
aether;a medium that was once supposed to fill all space and to support the propagation of electromagnetic waves
execution;putting a condemned person to death
strategic warning;(military) a warning prior to the start of a threatening act
death penalty;putting a condemned person to death
face lift;an operation to remove wrinkles and other signs of aging from your face
pilot;a program exemplifying a contemplated series. intended to attract sponsors
gainer;a dive in which the diver throws the feet forward to complete a full backward somersault and enters the water feet first and facing away from the diving board
command;an authoritative direction or instruction to do something
operations research;research designed to determine most efficient way to do something
shopping;searching for or buying goods or services: 'went shopping for a reliable plumber'. 'does her shopping at the mall rather than down town'
gravure;intaglio printing
warning;a message informing of danger
air raid;an attack by armed planes on a surface target
land office business;very large and profitable volume of commercial activity
practice of law;the learned profession that is mastered by graduate study in a law school and that is responsible for the judicial system. 'he studied law at yale'
incumbency;the office of an incumbent
battle of navarino;a naval battle in the war of greek independence (1827). the turkish and egyptian fleet was defeated by the allied fleet
consideration;a discussion of a topic (as in a meeting). 'consideration of the traffic problem took more than an hour'
steer roping;capturing a steer with a lasso
electromyography;diagnosis of neuromuscular disorders with the use of an electromyograph
phonics;teaching reading by training beginners to associate letters with their sound values
cross examination;close questioning
step;any maneuver made as part of progress toward a goal. 'the police took steps to reduce crime'
water sport;sports that involve bodies of water
cards;a game played with playing cards
squeak;something achieved (or escaped) by a narrow margin
investigation;the work of inquiring into something thoroughly and systematically
battle of hastings;the battle in which william the conqueror (duke of normandy) defeated the saxons under king harold (1066)
migration;the movement of a group of people from one country or locality to another
disparagement;the act of speaking contemptuously of
waste;(law) reduction in the value of an estate caused by act or neglect
red tape;needlessly time-consuming procedure
versification;the writing of verse
draft;the act of moving a load by drawing or pulling
dive bombing;a bombing run in which the bomber release the bomb while flying straight toward the target
fogginess;an atmosphere in which visibility is reduced because of a cloud of some substance
adrenalectomy;surgical removal of one or both adrenal glands
passero cape;the spanish navy was destroyed by france and england while attempting to recover sicily and sardinia from italy (1719)
channelisation;management through specified channels of communication
seven up;a form of all fours in which a total of seven points is game
review;practice intended to polish performance or refresh the memory
pouring;the act of baptizing someone by pouring water on their head
direct quotation;a report of the exact words used in a discourse. e.g., 'he said 'i am a fool''
grievance;a complaint about a (real or imaginary) wrong that causes resentment and is grounds for action
bocci;italian lawn bowling (played on a long narrow dirt court)
westerly;a wind from the west
diligence;a diligent effort. 'it is a job requiring serious application'
invincible armada;francis drake commanded british ships that successfully defeated the large armada sent from spain by philip ii to invade england
discipline;training to improve strength or self-control
battle of the philippine sea;a naval battle in world war ii (1944). a decisive naval victory for the us fleet over the japanese who were trying to block supplies from reaching american troops on leyte
midterm;an examination administered in the middle of an academic term
condonation;a pardon by treating the offender as if the offense had not occurred
tennis lesson;a lesson in playing tennis
jollification;boisterous celebration
cotilion;a lively dance originating in france in the 18th century
sentry duty;the duty of serving as a sentry. 'he was on guard that night'
revealing;making something evident
making known;a speech act that conveys information
orleans;a long siege by the english was relieved by joan of arc in 1429
raffle;a lottery in which the prizes are goods rather than money
philippine sea;a naval battle in world war ii (1944). a decisive naval victory for the us fleet over the japanese who were trying to block supplies from reaching american troops on leyte
religious offering;the act of offering the bread and wine of the eucharist
navigation;ship traffic. 'the channel will be open to navigation as soon as the ice melts'
lanolin;a salve containing a fatty substance obtained from the wool of sheep
