old catholic church;catholic churches that broke away from the roman catholic church in the 18th century
poste restante;a part of the post office that handles mail for persons who call for it
revolutionary group;a political unit organized to promote revolution
ifc;a united nations agency that invest directly in companies and guarantees loans to private investors. affiliated with the world bank
shivaism;a hindu sect worshiping shiva
planning board;a board appointed to advise the chief administrator
grey;any organization or party whose uniforms or badges are gray. 'the confederate army was a vast gray'
company;small military unit. usually two or three platoons
chorus;a company of actors who comment (by speaking or singing in unison) on the action in a classical greek play
reserves;civilians trained as soldiers but not part of the regular army
acquirer;a credit card processing bank. merchants receive credit for credit card receipts less a processing fee
sunni;one of the two main branches of orthodox islam
fnma;a federally chartered corporation that purchases mortgages
business school;a graduate school offering study leading to a masters of business administration
economic commission for asia and the far east;the commission of the economic and social council of the united nations that is concerned with economic development of countries in asia and the far east
line;a commercial organization serving as a common carrier
border patrol;a group of officers who patrol the borders of a country
tobacco industry;an industry that manufactures and sells products containing tobacco
sales finance company;a finance company that buys (at a discount) the installment sales contracts of retail merchants
herakles;in classical mythology a hero noted for his strength. performed 12 immense labors to gain immortality
admiralty;the department in charge of the navy (as in great britain)
infantry;an army unit consisting of soldiers who fight on foot. 'there came ten thousand horsemen and as many fully-armed foot'
quakers;a protestant sect. commonly called quakers
school of dentistry;a graduate school offering study leading to degrees in dentistry
corporation;a business whose articles of incorporation have been approved in some state
cell;a small unit serving as the nucleus of a larger political movement
labour;a political party formed in great britain in 1900. characterized by the promotion of labor's interests and the socialization of key industries
privy council;an advisory council to a ruler (especially to the british crown)
clinic;a medical establishment run by a group of medical specialists
oil company;a company that sells oil
detail;a temporary military unit. 'the peace-keeping force includes one british contingent'
fannie mae;a federally chartered corporation that purchases mortgages
theater company;a company that produces plays
bastion;a group that defends a principle. 'a bastion against corruption'. 'the last bastion of communism'
advertising division;the division of a business that is responsible for advertising
orchestra;instrumentalists including string players
privately held corporation;a corporation owned by a few people. shares have no public market
law school;a graduate school offering study leading to a law degree
baptist church;any of various evangelical protestant churches that believe in the baptism of voluntary believers
credit bureau;a private firm that maintains consumer credit data files and provides credit information to authorized users for a fee
air force;an organization of military air forces
computer business;a business that manufactures and sells computers
gilgamish;(sumerian) legendary king of sumeria and hero of sumerian and babylonian epics
maffia;a crime syndicate in the united states. organized in families. believed to have important relations to the sicilian mafia
organization of petroleum exporting countries;an organization of countries formed in 1961 to agree on a common policy for the sale of petroleum
wire service;an agency to collects news reports for newspapers and distributes it electronically
day school;a private school taking day students only
commonwealth;a politically organized body of people under a single government. 'the state has elected a new president'
tribe;a federation (as of american indians)
particular baptist;group of baptist congregations believing the teachings of the french theologian john calvin who believed in strict predetermination
religious society of friends;a protestant sect. commonly called quakers
furies;(classical mythology) the hideous snake-haired monsters (usually three in number) who pursued unpunished criminals
church of christ scientist;founded by mary baker eddy in 1866
bus service;a public utility providing local transportation
bookclub;a club that people join in order to buy selected books at reduced prices
world health organization;a united nations agency to coordinate international health activities and to help governments improve health services
centaur;(classical mythology) a mythical being that is half man and half horse
international civil aviation organization;the united nations agency concerned with civil aviation
copartnership;a partnership in which employees get a share of the profits in addition to their wages
housing industry;a building of housing
vigilance committee;a volunteer committee to maintain order where an efficient legal system does not exist
comprehensive school;a large british or canadian secondary school for children of all abilities
senior high;a public secondary school usually including grades 9 through 12. 'he goes to the neighborhood highschool'
varsity;a team representing a college or university
academy;a school for special training
shipbuilder;a business that builds and repairs ships
school board;a board in charge of local public schools
census bureau;the bureau of the commerce department responsible for taking the census
shua;any branch of shinto other than kokka
grim reaper;death personified as an old man or a skeleton with a scythe
wivern;a fire-breathing dragon used in medieval heraldry. had the head of a dragon and the tail of a snake and a body with wings and two legs
private foundation;a charity that does not receive a major part of its support from the public
guard;a group of men who escort and protect some important person
alignment;an organization of people (or countries) involved in a pact or treaty
marine corps;an amphibious division of the us navy
committee;a self-constituted organization to promote something
helen;(greek mythology) the beautiful daughter of zeus and leda who was abducted by paris. the greek army sailed to troy to get her back which resulted in the trojan war
department of psychology;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in psychology
post office department;the federal government department responsible for mail delivery (and sometimes telecommunications)
minstrel show;a troupe of performers in blackface typically giving a comic program of negro songs and jokes
council on environmental policy;the executive agency that advises the president on protecting the environment
progressive party;a former political party in the us. founded by theodore roosevelt during the presidential campaign of 1912. its emblem was a picture of a bull moose
child welfare service;an agency responsible for social work concerned with the welfare and vocational training of children
yacht club;club that promotes and supports yachting and boating
manpower;the force of workers available
falstaff;a dissolute character in shakespeare's plays
anthropology department;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in anthropology
redevelopment authority;a public agency given responsibility for the renovation of blighted urban areas
linguistics department;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in linguistics
faust;an alchemist of german legend who sol his soul to the devil in exchange for knowledge
brotherhood;an organization of employees formed to bargain with the employer. 'you have to join the union in order to get a job'
government;the organization that is the governing authority of a political unit. 'the government reduced taxes'. 'the matter was referred to higher authorities'
brigade;army unit smaller than a division
hockey league;a league of hockey teams
construction industry;a building of housing
aeneas;a mythical greek warrior who was a leader on the trojan side of the trojan war. hero of virgil's aeneid
trust corporation;an organization (usually with a commercial bank) that is engaged as a trustee or fiduciary or agent in handling trust funds or estates of custodial arrangements or stock transfers or related services
monster;an imaginary creature usually having various human and animal parts
state department;the federal department that sets and maintains foreign policies. 'the department of state was created in 1789'
sales force;the division of a business that is responsible for selling
zoning commission;a commission delegated to supervise the zoning of areas for residential or commercial use
nuclear family;a family consisting of parents and their children and grandparents of a marital partner
pam american union;the administrative agency of the organization of american states
world council;a council with representatives from different nations
squadron;a naval unit that is detached from the fleet for a particular task
constabulary;the force of policemen and officers. 'the law came looking for him'
valkyrie;(norse mythology) one of the maidens of odin who chose heroes to be slain in battle and conducted them to valhalla
general delivery;a part of the post office that handles mail for persons who call for it
pool;an organization of people or resources that can be shared. 'a car pool'. 'a secretarial pool'. 'when he was first hired he was assigned to the pool'
raider;a corporate investor who intends to take over a company by buying a controlling interest in its stock and installing new management
chute the chute;a railway in an amusement park (usually with sharp curves and steep inclines)
body politic;a politically organized body of people under a single government. 'the state has elected a new president'
vestry;in the protestant episcopal church: a committee elected by the congregation to work with the churchwardens in managing the temporal affairs of the church
gray;any organization or party whose uniforms or badges are gray. 'the confederate army was a vast gray'
hinayana;a major school of buddhism teaching personal salvation through one's own efforts
police academy;an academy for training police officers
member;an organization that is a member of another organization (especially a state that belongs to a group of nations). 'the library was a member of the interlibrary loan association'. 'canada is a member of the united nations'
tc;a permanent council of the united nations that commissions a country (or countries) to undertake the administration of a territory
management personnel;personnel having overall planning and direction responsibilities
tarzan of the apes;a man raised by apes who was the hero of a series of novels by edgar rice burroughs
food and agriculture organization of the united nations;the united nations agency concerned with the international organization of food and agriculture
alma mater;your alma mater is a school you graduated from
captive finance company;a finance company owned by a manufacturer to finance dealers' inventories or to make loans to consumers buying the company's products
company;crew of a ship including the officers. the whole force or personnel of a ship
post office;the federal government department responsible for mail delivery (and sometimes telecommunications)
housing and urban development;the federal department that administers federal program dealing with better housing and urban renewal. created in 1965
high school;a public secondary school usually including grades 9 through 12. 'he goes to the neighborhood highschool'
department of education;the federal department that administers all federal programs dealing with education (including federal aid to educational institutions and students). created 1979
squadron;a cavalry unit consisting of two or more troops and headquarters and supporting arms
establishment;an organization founded and united for a specific purpose
industry;the people engaged in a particular kind of commercial enterprise. 'each industry has its own trade publications'
charity;an institution set up to provide help to the needy
cavalry;a highly mobile army unit
public service corporation;a company that performs a public service. subject to government regulation
phoenix;a legendary arabian bird said to periodically burn itself to death and emerge from the ashes as a new phoenix. according to most versions only one phoenix lived at a time and it renewed itself every 500 years
musical organization;an organization of musicians who perform together
elevated railway;an electric elevated railway
hedge fund;a flexible investment company for a small number of large investors (usually the minimum investment is 1 million). can use high-risk techniques (not allowed for mutual funds) such a short-selling and heavy leveraging
publishing company;a firm in the publishing business
free soil party;a former political party in the us. formed in 1848 to oppose the extension of slavery into the territories. merged with the liberty party in 1848
white knight;a company that is a friendly acquirer in a takeover
selective service;a federal agency that administers compulsory military service
british commonwealth;an association of nations consisting of the united kingdom and its dependencies and many former british colonies that are now sovereign states but owe allegiance to the british crown
lunatic fringe;a political unit with extreme and fanatical views
veterans of foreign wars;an organization of u.s. war veterans
dealer;a firm engaged in trading
collective farm;a farm operated collectively
el;an electric elevated railway
standing army;a permanent army of paid soldiers
royal canadian mounted police;the federal police force of canada
office staff;professional or clerical workers in an office. 'the whole office was late the morning of the blizzard'
syndicate;a loose affiliation of gangsters in charge of organized criminal activities
big dipper;a railway in an amusement park (usually with sharp curves and steep inclines)
bull market;a market characterized by rising prices for securities
entente;an informal alliance between countries
legation;a permanent diplomatic mission headed by a minister
amphisbaena;(classical mythology) a serpent with a head at each end of its body
confederation;a union of political organizations
department of energy;the federal department responsible for maintaining a national energy policy. created in 1977
bogeyman;an imaginary monster used to frighten children
service club;a club of professional or business people organized for their coordination and active in public services
sign industry;an industry that produces signs
small loan company;a finance company that makes loans to people who have trouble getting a bank loan
hospital;a medical institution where sick or injured people are given medical or surgical care
marriage brokerage;a business that arranges marriage contracts
subway;an electric underground railway
delegation;a group of representatives or delegates
holmes;a fictitious detective in stories by a. conan doyle
echelon;a body of troops arranged in a line
graduate school;a school in a university offering study leading to degrees beyond the bachelor's degree
dancing school;a school in which students learn to dance
flight;a unit of the us air force smaller than a squadron
church of jesus christ of latter day saints;church founded by joseph smith in 1830 with headquarters in salt lake city utah
mohammedanism;muslims collectively and their civilization. based on a monotheistic religion believing that mohammed was the last and major prophet of god. 'the term mohammedanism is offensive to muslims'
holding company;a company with controlling shares in other companies
giantess;a female giant
academy;a secondary school (usually private)
day shift;workers who work during the day (as 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
department of the interior;the federal department charged with conservation and the development of natural resources. created in 1849
crew;an organized group of workmen
wesleyan methodist church;original methodist church
john henry;hero of american folk tales. portrayed as an enormously strong black man who worked on the railroads and died from exhaustion after winning a contest with a steam drill
hierarchy;the organization of people at different ranks in an administrative body
military force;a unit that is part of some military service. 'he sent caesar a force of six thousand men'
health and human services;the federal department that administers all federal programs dealing with health and welfare. created in 1979
news agency;an agency to collects news reports for newspapers and distributes it electronically
cable railway;a railway up the side of a mountain pulled by a moving cable and having counterbalancing ascending and descending cars
contingent;a temporary military unit. 'the peace-keeping force includes one british contingent'
education;the federal department that administers all federal programs dealing with education (including federal aid to educational institutions and students). created 1979
post office;a local branch of the post office department
subsidiary;a company that is completely controlled by another company
catholic church;any of several churches claiming to have maintained historical continuity with the original christian church
unit investment trust;a regulated investment company consisting of professional managers who issue redeemable securities representing a portfolio of many different securities. 'you can invest in a unit investment trust for as little as 1000'
united states army;the army of the united states of america
fbi;the law enforcement agency in the justice department
commission on human rights;the commission of the economic and social council of the united nations that is concerned with human rights
iaea;the united nations agency concerned with atomic energy
big league;the most important league in any sport (especially baseball)
vice squad;a police group to enforce laws against gambling and prostitution
shift;a group of workers who work for a specific period of time
platoon;a military unit that is a subdivision of a company. usually has a headquarters and two or more squads. usually commanded by a lieutenant
babar;an imaginary elephant that appears in a series of french books for children
unicef;an agency of the united nations responsible for programs to aid education and the health of children and mothers in developing countries
agriculture;the federal department that administers programs that provide services to farmers (including research and soil conservation and efforts to stabilize the farming economy). created in 1862
sir john falstaff;a dissolute character in shakespeare's plays
trumpet section;the section of a band or orchestra that plays trumpets or cornets
army;an organization of military land forces
manufacturer;a business engaged in manufacturing some product
lobby;a group of people who try actively to influence legislation
symphony orchestra;a large orchestra. can perform symphonies. 'we heard the vienna symphony'
fire brigade;a private or temporary organization of individuals equipped to fight fires
paramilitary organization;a group of civilians organized in a military fashion (especially to operate in place of or to assist regular army troops)
financial organization;an institution (public or private) that collects funds (from the public or other institutions) and invests them in financial assets
prohibition party;a political party in the us. formed in 1869 to oppose the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages
diwan;a muslim council of state
baseball league;a league of baseball teams
omb;the executive agency that advises the president on the federal budget
major league club;a team that plays in a major league
octet;eight performers or singers who perform together
horse cavalry;troops trained to fight on horseback: '500 horse led the attack'
nessie;large aquatic animal supposed to resemble a serpent or plesiosaur of loch ness in scotland
engineering school;a technical school offering instruction in many industrial arts and applied sciences
bus line;an organization responsible for operating a bus transportation system
anti masonic party;a former political party in the us. founded in 1825 in opposition to freemasonry in public affairs
hebraism;jews who practice a religion based on the old testament and the talmud
international finance corporation;a united nations agency that invest directly in companies and guarantees loans to private investors. affiliated with the world bank
who;a united nations agency to coordinate international health activities and to help governments improve health services
drug company;a company that makes and sells pharmaceuticals
praetorian guard;the elite bodyguard of a roman emperor
trolley line;a transportation system using streetcars or trolley buses
nasa;an independent agency of the us government responsible for aviation and spaceflight
tarzan;a man raised by apes who was the hero of a series of novels by edgar rice burroughs
washington;the federal government of the united states
jehovah s witnesses;founded in us in late 19th century
atomic energy commission;a former agency (from 1947 to 1977) that was responsible for research into atomic energy and its peacetime uses in the us
underground;a secret group organized to overthrow a government or occupation force
yeti;large hairy humanoid creature said to live in the himalayas
printing concern;a company that does commercial printing
kolkhoz;(ussr) a collective farm owned by the communist state
fdic;a federally sponsored corporation that insures accounts in national banks and other qualified institutions
directorate;a group of persons chosen to govern the affairs of a corporation or other large institution
yeomanry;a british volunteer cavalry force organized in 1761 for home defense later incorporated into the territorial army
religion;institution to express belief in a divine power. 'he was raised in the baptist religion'. 'a member of his own faith contradicted him'
gang;an organized group of workmen
manhattan project;a former us agency that was responsible for developing atomic bombs during world war ii
craft union;a labor union whose membership is restricted to workers in a particular craft
driving school;a school where people are taught to drive automobiles
think tank;a company that does research for hire and issues reports on the implications
first team;a team representing a college or university
general baptist;group of baptist congregations believing the teachings of the dutch theologian jacobus arminius (who opposed the doctrine of strict predestination of the calvinists)
scheduled territories;the group of countries whose currencies are tied to the british pound sterling
unesco;an agency of the united nations that promotes education and communication and the arts
division;an administrative unit in government or business
capitol;the federal government of the united states
advertising agency;an agency that designs advertisement to call public attention to its clients
atheneum;a literary or scientific association for the promotion of learning
magazine publisher;a business firm that publishes magazines. 'he works for a magazine'
salamander;reptilian creature supposed to live in fire
money market;a market for short-term debt instruments
educational institution;an institution dedicated to education
glee club;a club organized to sing together
baptist denomination;group of baptist congregations
authorities;the organization that is the governing authority of a political unit. 'the government reduced taxes'. 'the matter was referred to higher authorities'
regime;the organization that is the governing authority of a political unit. 'the government reduced taxes'. 'the matter was referred to higher authorities'
odysseus;a mythical greek hero (roman name ulysses). his return to ithaca after the siege of troy was described in homer's odyssey
fed;the central bank of the us. incorporates 12 federal reserve branch banks and all national banks and stated charted commercial banks and some trust companies
consulting company;a firm of experts providing professional advice to an organization for a fee
tantalus;(greek mythology) a wicked king and son of zeus. condemned in hades to stand in water that receded when he tried to drink and beneath fruit that receded when he reached for it
rodya raskolnikov;a fictional character in dostoevsky's novel 'crime and punishment'. he kills old women because he believes he is beyond the bounds of good or evil
society of jesus;the jesuits: a roman catholic religious order
air force academy;an academy for train air force officers
ally;a friendly nation
pecking order;the organization of people at different ranks in an administrative body
banking company;a financial institution that accepts deposits and channels the money into lending activities. 'he cashed a check at the bank'. 'that bank holds the mortgage on my home'
financial institution;an institution (public or private) that collects funds (from the public or other institutions) and invests them in financial assets
honorary society;an institution for the advancement of art or science or literature
newspaper publisher;a business firm that publishes newspapers. 'murdoch owns many newspapers'
sea power;a nation that possesses formidable naval strength
greek church;state church of greece. an autonomous part of the eastern orthodox church
fabian society;an association of british socialists who advocate gradual reforms within the law leading to democratic socialism
patrol;a group that goes through a region at regular intervals for the purpose of security
confederate army;the southern army during the american civil war
treasury;the government department responsible for collecting and managing and spending public revenues
tom sawyer;the boy hero of a novel by mark twain
hare krishna;a society founded in the us in 1966. based on vedic scriptures. groups engage in joyful chanting of 'hare krishna' ('o krishna!')
depository financial institution;a financial institution that accepts deposits and channels the money into lending activities. 'he cashed a check at the bank'. 'that bank holds the mortgage on my home'
penelope;(greek mythology) the wife of odysseus and a symbol of devotion and fidelity. for 10 years while odysseus fought the trojan war she resisted numerous suitors until odysseus returned and killed them
wolfman;a monster able to change appearance from human to wolf
department of anthropology;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in anthropology
platoon;a team of policemen working under the military platoon system
pension fund;a financial institution that collects regular contributions from employers to provide retirement income for employees
complement;number needed to make up whole force: 'a full complement of workers'
ku klux klan;a secret society of white southerners to resist black emancipation
mennonite church;formed from the anabaptist movement in the 16th century. noted for its simplicity of life
masonry;freemasons collectively
protestant episcopal church;us church in communication with the see of canterbury
troop;a group of soldiers
bank holding company;a holding company owning or controlling one or more banks
department of state;the federal department that sets and maintains foreign policies. 'the department of state was created in 1789'
mob;an association of criminals. 'police tried to break up the gang'. 'a pack of thieves'
militia;civilians trained as soldiers but not part of the regular army
nondepository financial institution;a financial institution that funds their investment activities from the sale of securities or insurance
artillery unit;an army unit that uses big guns
united states government;the executive and legislative and judicial branches of the federal government of the us
jewish orthodoxy;jews who strictly observe the mosaic law as interpreted in the talmud
defense;the team that is trying to prevent the other team from scoring. 'his teams are always good on defense'
power company;a public utility that provides electricity
congregational church;a protestant denomination holding that each individual congregation should be self-governing
american federalist party;a major political party in the us in the early 19th century. founded by alexander hamilton. favored a strong centralized government
outfit;any cohesive unit such as a military company
duo;two performers or singers who perform together
combine;a consortium of companies formed to limit competition. 'they set up the trust in the hope of gaining a monopoly'
united nations educational scientific and cultural organization;an agency of the united nations that promotes education and communication and the arts
little red ricing hood;a girl in a fairy tale who meets a wolf while going to visit her grandmother
roc;mythical bird of prey having enormous size and strength
executive council;a council that shares the supreme executive power
primum mobile;"a self-caused agent that is the cause of all things. 'god is the first cause'"
labor department;the federal department responsible for promoting the working conditions of wage earners. created in 1913
elevated railroad;an electric elevated railway
government agency;an administrative unit of government. 'the central intelligence agency'. 'the census bureau'. 'office of management and budget'. 'tennessee valley authority'
paramilitary;a group of civilians organized in a military fashion (especially to operate in place of or to assist regular army troops)
polytechnic institute;a technical school offering instruction in many industrial arts and applied sciences
national bank;a commercial bank chartered by the federal government
shell entity;a company that is incorporated but has no assets or operations
packaging concern;a company that packages goods for sale or shipment or storage
fashion industry;a maker and seller of fashionable clothing
taoism;religion adhering to the teaching of lao-tzu
romulus;(roman mythology) founder of rome. suckled with his twin brother remus by a wolf after their parents (rhea silvia and mars) abandoned them. romulus killed remus in an argument over the building of rome
issuer;an institution that issues something (securities or publications or currency etc.)
troop;a unit of girl or boy scouts
van;the leading units moving at the head of an army
states;a former political party in the us. formed in 1948 by southern democrats opposed to the candidacy of harry s truman
tennis club;a club of people to play tennis
vaishnavism;hindu sect worshiping of vishnu
rotc;a training program to prepare college students to be commissioned officers
federal housing administration;the federal agency that insures residential mortgages
gas service;a public utility that provides gas
academy;an institution for the advancement of art or science or literature
bureau of engraving and printing;the agency of the treasury department that produces currency
cockatrice;monster hatched by a reptile from a cock's egg. able to kill with a glance
section;a division of an orchestra containing all instruments of the same class
justice department;the federal department responsible for enforcing federal laws (including the enforcement of all civil rights legislation). created in 1870
mathematics department;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in mathematics
printing company;a company that does commercial printing
public school;(british) private independent secondary school supported by endowment and tuition
sleeping beauty;a potential takeover target that has not yet been put in play
consumer finance company;a finance company that makes loans to people who have trouble getting a bank loan
territorial reserve;a territorial military unit
mythical being;an imaginary being of myth or fable
troops;soldiers collectively
vertical union;a labor union that admits all workers in a given industry irrespective of their craft
voland;(norse mythology) a wonderful smith. identified with anglo-saxon wayland and teutonic wieland
orion;(greek mythology) a giant boeotian hunter who pursued the pleiades and was eventually slain by artemis. was then placed in the sky as a constellation
full complement;number needed to make up whole force: 'a full complement of workers'
public school;a free school supported by taxes and controlled by a school board
corporate investor;a company that invests in (acquires control of) other companies
un agency;an agency of the united nations
department of housing and urban development;the federal department that administers federal program dealing with better housing and urban renewal. created in 1965
minor league club;a team that plays in a minor league
priam;(greek mythology) the last king of troy. father of hector and paris and cassandra
household;a social unit living together. 'he moved his family to virginia'. 'it was a good christian household'. 'i waited until the whole house was asleep'. 'the teacher asked how many people made up his home'
federal home loan bank system;the central credit system for thrift institutions
service staff;those in a business responsible for maintaining the physical plant
eurydice;(greek mythology) the wife of orpheus
manufacturing business;a business engaged in manufacturing some product
reich;the german state
tiresias;(greek mythology) the blind prophet of thebes who revealed to oedipus that oedipus had murdered his father and married his mother
hydra;(greek mythology) monster with nine heads. when struck off each head was replaced by two new ones. 'hydra was slain by hercules'
life principle;"a hypothetical force to which the functions and qualities peculiar to living things are sometimes ascribed"
class;a league ranked by quality. 'he played baseball in class d for two years'. 'princeton is in the ncaa division 1-aa'
country club;a suburban club for recreation and socializing
hypothetical creature;a creature that has not been observed but is hypothesized to exist
member bank;a bank that is a member of the federal reserve system
savings and loan association;a thrift institution that is required by law to make a certain percentage of its loans as home mortgages
executive agency;an agency of the executive branch of government
foot;an army unit consisting of soldiers who fight on foot. 'there came ten thousand horsemen and as many fully-armed foot'
food company;a company that processes and sells food
evening shift;workers who work during the evening (as 4 p.m. to midnight)
farm team;a minor-league team that is owned by a major-league team (especially in baseball)
sales department;the division of a business that is responsible for selling
liliputian;a citizen of liliput (the imaginary country in gulliver's travels)
orpheus;(greek mythology) a great musician. when his wife eurydice died he went to hades to get her back but failed
security;a department responsible for the security of the institutions property and workers. 'the head of security was a former policeman'
pygmalion;(greek mythology) the king of cyprus who fell in love with the statue of a woman (galatea) he had created
road gang;a gang of road workers
brahmanism;the religious and social system of orthodox hinduism
economics department;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in economics
naval academy;an academy for training naval officers
federal deposit insurance corporation;a federally sponsored corporation that insures accounts in national banks and other qualified institutions
broadcasting company;a company that manages tv or radio stations
remus;(roman mythology) the twin brother of romulus
cadre;a small unit serving as the nucleus of a larger political movement
greenback party;a former political party in the us. organized in 1874. opposed any reduction in the amount of paper money in circulation
white house;the chief executive department of the us government
crew;the men who man a ship or aircraft
extraterrestrial being;a form of life assumed to exist outside the earth or its atmosphere
state government;the government of a us state
federal home loan mortgage corporation;a corporation authorized by congress to provide a secondary market for residential mortgages
executive department;a federal department in the executive branch of government
ogress;a female ogre
sabaoth;(plural) hosts or armies. used in the book of romans in the new testament of the bible: 'lord of sabaoth'
camorra;a secret society in naples notorious for violence and blackmail
lamaism;tibetan buddhism having great variety in its ritual practices and a complex hierarchical organization
law firm;a firm of lawyers
panel;a committee appointed to judge a competition
supernatural;"supernatural forces and events and beings collectively. 'she doesn't believe in the supernatural'"
business department;a division of a business firm
research staff;a group of associated research workers in a university or library or laboratory
center for disease control;a government agency in atlanta that investigates and diagnoses and tries to control diseases (especially new and unusual diseases)
third house;a group of people who try actively to influence legislation
steel company;a company that makes and sells steel
law;the force of policemen and officers. 'the law came looking for him'
seminary;a theological school for training ministers or priests or rabbis
elementary school;a school for young children. usually the first 6 or 8 grades
gangland;"underworld organizations"
axis;a group of countries in special alliance
society;a formal association of people with similar interests. 'he joined a golf club'. 'they formed a small lunch society'. 'men from the fraternal order will staff the soup kitchen today'
boogeyman;an imaginary monster used to frighten children
mafia;a secret terrorist group in sicily. originally opposed tyranny but evolved into a criminal organization in the middle of the 19th century
world council of churches;an ecumenical organization of protestant and eastern churches. intended to promote unity and cooperation in religious and secular matters
department of justice;the federal department responsible for enforcing federal laws (including the enforcement of all civil rights legislation). created in 1870
political party;an organization to gain political power. 'in 1992 perot tried to organize a third party at the national level'
cult;adherents of an exclusive system of religious beliefs and practices
metro;an electric underground railway
grammar school;a school for young children. usually the first 6 or 8 grades
face amount certificate company;a regulated investment company that pays a stated amount to certificate holders on a stated maturity date
ground service crew;the crew of technicians and mechanics who service aircraft on the ground
air group;a unit of the us air force larger than a squadron and smaller than a wing
regular army;an organization of military land forces
political machine;a group that controls the activities of a political party. 'he was endorsed by the democratic machine'
jewelry store;a firm that sells and buys jewelry
dixiecrats;a former political party in the us. formed in 1948 by southern democrats opposed to the candidacy of harry s truman
board of appeals;a board of officials that are not judicial but are appointed to hear appeals
statistical commission;the commission of the economic and social council of the united nations that is concerned with statistical data from member nations
the shiites;one of the two main branches of orthodox islam. mainly in iran
concern;a commercial or industrial enterprise and the people who constitute it. 'he bought his brother's business'. 'a small mom-and-pop business'. 'a racially integrated business concern'
argonaut;(classical mythology) one of the heroes who sailed with jason on the argo in search of the golden fleece
mutual savings bank;a state-chartered savings bank owned by its depositors and managed by a board of trustees
congregational christian church;merger of the congregational church and the christian church
lycee;a school for students intermediate between elementary school and college. usually grades 9 to 12
sc;a permanent council of the united nations. responsible for preserving world peace
home reserve;us military reserves recruited by the states and equipped by the federal government. subject to call by either
command;a military unit or region under the control of a single officer
machine;an intricate organization that accomplishes its goals efficiently. 'the war machine'
empire;a group of countries under a single authority: 'the roman empire'
security staff;those in an organization responsible for preventing spying or theft
alliance;an organization of people (or countries) involved in a pact or treaty
brokerage firm;a stock broker's business. charges a fee to act as intermediary between buyer and seller
hero;(classical mythology) a being of great strength and courage celebrated for bold exploits. often the offspring of a mortal and a god
christian church;a group of christians. any group professing christian doctrine or belief. 'church is a biblical term for assembly'
utility;a company that performs a public service. subject to government regulation
populist party;a former political party in the us. formed in 1891 to advocate currency expansion and state control of railroads
holy roman empire;the lands ruled by charlemagne. a continuation of the roman empire in europe
division;a unit of the us air force usually comprising two or more wings
ghost;the visible disembodied soul of a dead person
insurance firm;a financial institution that sells insurance
monorail;a single-track railway
school of nursing;a school for training nurses
music department;the academic department responsible for teaching music and music appreciation
show business;those involved in providing entertainment: radio and television and films and theater
task force;a semipermanent unit created to carry out a continuing task
general agreement on tariffs and trade;a united nations agency created by a multinational treaty to promote trade by the reduction of tariffs and import quotas
scout group;a unit of girl or boy scouts
robin hood;legendary english outlaw said to have robbed the rich to help the poor
brass band;a group of musicians playing only brass and percussion instruments
socialist labor party;a political party in the us. formed in 1874 to advocate the peaceful introduction of socialism
authority;an administrative unit of government. 'the central intelligence agency'. 'the census bureau'. 'office of management and budget'. 'tennessee valley authority'
superpower;a state powerful enough to influence events throughout the world
rock group;a band of musicians who play rock-'n'-roll music
eye clinic;a clinic where specialist care for a patient's eyes
water company;a public utility that provides water
pack;an association of criminals. 'police tried to break up the gang'. 'a pack of thieves'
department of philosophy;the academic department responsible for teaching philosophy
disciples of christ;a protestant church that accepts the bible as the only source of true christian faith and practices baptism by immersion
phone service;a public utility that provides telephone service
united states navy;the navy of the united states of america
military unit;a unit that is part of some military service. 'he sent caesar a force of six thousand men'
energy department;the federal department responsible for maintaining a national energy policy. created in 1977
french academy;an honorary group of french writers and thinkers supported by the french government. 'the french academy sets standards for the use of the french language'
treasury;the federal department that collects revenue and administers federal finances. the treasury department was created in 1789
christian science;founded by mary baker eddy in 1866
international development association;an agency of the united nations affiliated with the world bank
labor union;an organization of employees formed to bargain with the employer. 'you have to join the union in order to get a job'
nation;a federation of tribes (especially native american tribes). 'the shawnee nation'
transportation company;a company providing transportation
commodity brokerage;a brokerage firm dealing in commodities
general staff;military officers assigned to assist a senior officer in planning military policy
democratic party;the older of two major political parties in the us
fixed investment trust;an investment trust that can buy only those securities listed when the trust was organized
suzerain;a state exercising a degree of dominion over a dependent state especially in its foreign affairs
veterinary school;a school teaching veterinary medicine
deputation;a group of representatives or delegates
lutheran church;the protestant denomination adhering to the views of martin luther
fsb;a federally chartered savings bank
islam;muslims collectively and their civilization. based on a monotheistic religion believing that mohammed was the last and major prophet of god. 'the term mohammedanism is offensive to muslims'
secretariat;an administrative unit responsible for maintaining records and other secretarial duties. especially for international organizations
boarding school;a private school where students are lodged and fed as well as taught
third party;a political party organized in opposition to the major parties in a two-party system
patrol;a detachment used for security or reconnaissance
mammon;(new testament) a personification of wealth and avarice as an evil spirit. 'ye cannot serve god and mammon'
lions club;club dedicated to promoting responsible citizenship and good government and community and national and international welfare
united methodist church;union of the methodist church and the evangelical united brethren
armorer;a manufacturer of firearms
nine;a team of professional baseball players who play and travel together. 'each club played six home games with teams in its own division'
leviathan;monstrous sea creature symbolizing evil in the old testament
amazon;(greek mythology) one of a nation of women warriors of scythia (who burned off the right breast in order to use a bow and arrow more effectively)
gulliver;a fictional englishman who travels to the imaginary land of lilliput (in jonathan swift's gulliver's travels)
federal reserve;the central bank of the us. incorporates 12 federal reserve branch banks and all national banks and stated charted commercial banks and some trust companies
jotunn;(norse mythology) one of a race of giants often in conflict with the aesir
saktism;a hindu sect worshiping shakti
cyclops;(greek mythology) one of a race of giants having a single eye in the middle of their forehead
music school;a school for the study of music
confederacy;a union of political organizations
jewelry dealer;a firm that sells and buys jewelry
nest;a gang of criminals assembled in one place. 'a nest of thieves'
bodyguard;a group of men who escort and protect some important person
seminary;a private place of education for the young
greek chorus;a company of actors who comment (by speaking or singing in unison) on the action in a classical greek play
chemical industry;a manufacturer of chemicals
club;a formal association of people with similar interests. 'he joined a golf club'. 'they formed a small lunch society'. 'men from the fraternal order will staff the soup kitchen today'
administrative unit;a unit with administrative responsibilities
midas;(greek legend) the greedy king of phrygia who dionysus gave the power to turn everything he touched into gold
service;a company or agency that performs a public service. subject to government regulation
medical institution;an institution created for the practice of medicine
popular front;a leftist coalition organized against a common opponent
commerce department;the federal department that promotes and administers domestic and foreign trade (including management of the census and the patent office). created in 1913
acquirer;the financial institution that dispenses cash in automated teller machines and collects a fee from the bank that issued the credit card
junior high school;a secondary school usually including 7th and 8th grades
praesidium;a permanent executive committee in socialist countries that has all the powers of some larger legislative body and that acts for it when it is not in session
service bureau;a business that makes its facilities available to others for a fee. achieves economy of scale
hindooism;the dominant religion of india. characterized by a caste system and belief in reincarnation
maker;a business engaged in manufacturing some product
wing;a unit of military aircraft
wmo;the united nations agency concerned with the international collection of meteorological data
farmer labor party;a former minor political party in the us in the early 20th century
church of ireland;autonomous branch of the church of england in ireland
side;one of two or more contesting groups (in games or war or politics). 'the confederate side was prepared to attack'
hands;the force of workers available
socialist party;a political party in the us formed in 1900 to advocate socialism
firm;members of a business organization. 'he worked for a brokerage house'
oil business;an industry that produces and delivers oil and oil products
mob;a loose affiliation of gangsters in charge of organized criminal activities
railroad;the commercial organization responsible for operating a railway system
federal national mortgage association;a federally chartered corporation that purchases mortgages
protestant denomination;group of protestant congregations
protagonist;the principal character in a work of fiction
oedipus;(greek mythology) a tragic king who unknowingly killed his father and married his mother. the subject of the drama oedipus rex by sophocles
multibank holding company;a bank holding company owning several banks
soviet;an elected governmental council in a communist country
ilo;the united nations agency concerned with the interests of labor
protestant;the protestant churches and denominations collectively
insurance company;a financial institution that sells insurance
defense;the federal department responsible for safeguarding national security. created in 1947
armed service;a force that is a branch of the armed forces
processor;a business engaged in processing agricultural products and preparing them for market
islamism;muslims collectively and their civilization. based on a monotheistic religion believing that mohammed was the last and major prophet of god. 'the term mohammedanism is offensive to muslims'
rastafarianism;a militant black religion of the followers of haile selassie of ethiopia
byzantine church;the catholic church of the byzantine empire
police department;the department of local government concerned with enforcing the law and preventing crime
grammar school;a secondary_school emphasizing latin and greek in preparation for college
pierrot;a male character in french pantomime. usually dressed in white with a whitened face
faith;institution to express belief in a divine power. 'he was raised in the baptist religion'. 'a member of his own faith contradicted him'
alcides;in classical mythology a hero noted for his strength. performed 12 immense labors to gain immortality
department of chemistry;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in chemistry
livery company;one of the chartered companies of london originating with the craft guilds
basilisk;(classical mythology) a serpent (or lizard or dragon) able to kill with its breath or glance
cabinet;persons appointed by a head of state to head executive departments of government and act as official advisers
business concern;a commercial or industrial enterprise and the people who constitute it. 'he bought his brother's business'. 'a small mom-and-pop business'. 'a racially integrated business concern'
sorority;a social club for female undergraduates
lead bank;a bank named by a multi-bank lending syndicate to protect their interests
navy department;a former executive department. created in 1798 and combined with the war department in 1947
bugbear;an imaginary monster used to frighten children
mining company;a company that owns and manages mines
philanthropic foundation;a foundation that provides funds for science or art or education or religion or relief from disease etc.
brynhild;(norse mythology) a valkyrie who loved the hero siegfried. when he deceived her she had him killed and then committed suicide
septette;seven performers or singers who perform together
department of physics;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in physics
short line;a transportation system that operates over relatively short distances
mercantile agency;an organization that provides businesses with credit ratings of other firms. 'dun & bradstreet is the largest mercantile agency in the united states'
building society;british equivalent of us savings and loan association
raf;the airforce of great britain
federal reserve system;the central bank of the us. incorporates 12 federal reserve branch banks and all national banks and stated charted commercial banks and some trust companies
moving company;a company that moves the possessions of a family or business from one site to another
ltd.;(british) a company that is organized to give its owners limited liability
steamship company;an organization responsible for the operation of a fleet of steamships
flying horse;(greek mythology) immortal winged horse that sprang from the blood of the slain medusa. was tamed by bellerophon with the help of a bridle given him by athena. as the flying horse of the muses it is a symbol of high-flying imagination
social security administration;the agency of health and human services responsible for the social security system
ulysses;a mythical greek hero (roman name ulysses). his return to ithaca after the siege of troy was described in homer's odyssey
delegacy;a group of representatives or delegates
family;an association of people who share common beliefs or activities. 'the message was addressed not just to employees but to every member of the company family'. 'the church welcomed new members into its fellowship'
amish sect;an orthodox anabaptist sect separated from the mennonites in late 17th century. settled chiefly in se pennsylvania
mother goose;the imaginary author of a collection of nursery rhymes
gatt;a united nations agency created by a multinational treaty to promote trade by the reduction of tariffs and import quotas
freemasonry;freemasons collectively
ethics panel;a committee appointed to consider ethical issues
organized crime;"underworld organizations"
military police;a military corps that enforces discipline and guards prisoners
slate club;(british) a group of people who save money in a common fund for a specific purpose (usually distributed at christmas)
rowing club;a club for person who row
zoning board;a board of officials who divide an area into zones subject to different restrictions
great power;a state powerful enough to influence events throughout the world
carrier;a person or firm in the business of transporting people or goods or messages
basketball team;a team that plays basketball
national park service;an agency of the interior department responsible for the national parks
golem;(jewish folklore) an artificially created human being that is given life by supernatural means
basketball league;a league of basketball teams
placement office;an office that finds suitable employment for applicants
little league team;a team that plays in a little league
english department;the academic department responsible for teaching english and american literature
highschool;a public secondary school usually including grades 9 through 12. 'he goes to the neighborhood highschool'
pegasus;(greek mythology) immortal winged horse that sprang from the blood of the slain medusa. was tamed by bellerophon with the help of a bridle given him by athena. as the flying horse of the muses it is a symbol of high-flying imagination
consortium;an association of companies for some definite purpose
constitutional union party;a former political party in the us. formed in 1859 by former whigs who hoped to preserve the union
franchise;a business established or operated under an authorization to sell or distribute a company's goods or services in a particular area
dod;the federal department responsible for safeguarding national security. created in 1947
armourer;a manufacturer of firearms
ring;an association of criminals. 'police tried to break up the gang'. 'a pack of thieves'
gild;a formal association of people with similar interests. 'he joined a golf club'. 'they formed a small lunch society'. 'men from the fraternal order will staff the soup kitchen today'
jockey club;a club to promote and regulate horse racing
eastern church;the catholic church of the byzantine empire
playschool;a small informal nursery group meeting for half-day sessions
character;an imaginary person represented in a work of fiction (play or film or story). 'she is the main character in the novel'
msb;a state-chartered savings bank owned by its depositors and managed by a board of trustees
ibrd;a united nations agency created to assist developing nations by loans guaranteed by member governments
waterworks;a public utility that provides water
common carrier;a person or firm in the business of transporting people or goods or messages
kokka;the branch of shinto recognized as the official state religion of japan
paratroops;infantry trained and equipped to parachute
shock troops;soldiers who are specially trained and armed to lead an assault
executive branch;the branch of the united states government that is responsible for carrying out the laws
retail chain;a chain of retail stores
gendarmery;french police force. a group of gendarmes or gendarmes collectively
bunyan;a legendary giant lumberjack of the north woods of us and canada. had a blue ox named babe. 'the lakes of minnesota began when paul bunyan and babe's footprints filled with water'
company union;a union of workers for a single company. a union not affiliated with with a larger union
black hand;a secret terrorist society in the us early in the 20th century
republican party;the younger of 2 major political parties in the us. gop stands for grand old party
staff office;the division of a business responsible for hiring employees
patent office;the government bureau that keeps a record of patents and grants new ones
fairness commission;a commission delegated to ensure opportunities for the expression of opposing views
chamber of commerce;an association of businessmen to protect and promote business interests
defense;an organization of defenders that provides resistance against attack. 'he joined the defense against invasion'
trucking company;a company that ships goods or possessions by truck
bomber aircrew;the crew of a bomber
tech;a school teaching mechanical and industrial arts and the applied sciences
federal savings bank;a federally chartered savings bank
polity;a politically organized unit
repertory company;a theatrical company that performs plays from a repertoire
know nothing party;a former political party in the us. active in the 1850s to keep power out of the hands of immigrants and roman catholics
eastern church;derived from the byzantine church and adhering to byzantine rites
headquarters;a military unit consisting of a commander and the headquarters staff
entertainment industry;those involved in providing entertainment: radio and television and films and theater
string section;the section of an orchestra that plays stringed instruments
agency;an administrative unit of government. 'the central intelligence agency'. 'the census bureau'. 'office of management and budget'. 'tennessee valley authority'
phone company;a public utility that provides telephone service
furniture company;a company that sells furniture
bank of england;the central bank of england
shipping company;a company that provides shipping services
us navy;the navy of the united states of america
home;a social unit living together. 'he moved his family to virginia'. 'it was a good christian household'. 'i waited until the whole house was asleep'. 'the teacher asked how many people made up his home'
ld.;(british) a company that is organized to give its owners limited liability
icarus;(greek mythology) son of daedalus. while escaping from crete with his father (using the wings daedalus had made) he flew too close to the sun and the wax melted and he fell into the aegean and drowned
department of labor;the federal department responsible for promoting the working conditions of wage earners. created in 1913
scenic railway;small railway in an amusement park
airline business;a commercial enterprise that provides scheduled flights for passengers
publishing firm;a firm in the publishing business
huckleberry finn;a mischievous boy in a novel by mark twain
brahminism;the religious and social system of orthodox hinduism
coal industry;a producer of coal
economic and social council;a permanent council of the united nations. responsible for economic and social conditions
hockey team;a team that plays ice hockey
arm;an administrative division of some larger or more complex organization. 'a branch of congress'
soul;the immaterial part of a person. the actuating cause of an individual life
high church;a group in the anglican church that emphasizes the catholic tradition (especially in sacraments and rituals and obedience to church authority)
territorial;a territorial military unit
erinyes;(classical mythology) the hideous snake-haired monsters (usually three in number) who pursued unpunished criminals
orthodox church;derived from the byzantine church and adhering to byzantine rites
new scotland yard;the detective department of the metropolitan police force of london
kokka shinto;the branch of shinto recognized as the official state religion of japan
preparatory school;a private secondary school
brass section;the section of a band or orchestra that plays brass instruments
mission;an organization of missionaries in a foreign land sent to carry on religious work
lycanthrope;a monster able to change appearance from human to wolf
company;a unit of firefighters including their equipment: 'a hook-and-ladder company'
department of the federal government;a department of the federal government
martian;imaginary people who live on the planet mars
episcopal church;us church in communication with the see of canterbury
transfer agent;an agency (usually a bank) that is appointed by a corporation to keep records of its stock and bond owners and to resolve problems about certificates
duette;two performers or singers who perform together
legion;a large military unit. 'the french foreign legion'
jury;a committee appointed to judge a competition
auto company;a company that makes and sells automobiles
work force;the force of workers available
investment trust;a financial institution that sells shares to individuals and invests in securities issued by other companies
gangdom;"underworld organizations"
taoism;chinese taoist sect claiming to follow the teaching of lao-tzu but also incorporating pantheism and sorcery
men;the force of workers available
shia;one of the two main branches of orthodox islam. mainly in iran
methodist church;a deriving founded on the principles of john and charles wesley
full service bank;a financial institution that accepts demand deposits and makes loans and provides other services for the public
chimera;(greek mythology) fire-breathing she-monster with a lion's head and a goat's body and a serpent's tail. daughter of typhon
presbyterian church;the protestant denomination adhering to the views of john calvin
armed forces;the military forces of a nation
american baptist convention;an association of northern baptists
division;an army unit large enough to sustain combat. 'two infantry divisions were held in reserve'
primary school;a school for young children. usually the first 6 or 8 grades
labor;a political party formed in great britain in 1900. characterized by the promotion of labor's interests and the socialization of key industries
menage;a social unit living together. 'he moved his family to virginia'. 'it was a good christian household'. 'i waited until the whole house was asleep'. 'the teacher asked how many people made up his home'
shuha shinto;any branch of shinto other than kokka
municipal government;the government of a municipality
ancien regime;a political and social system that no longer governs (especially the system that existed in france before the french revolution)
argosy;one or more large merchant ships
maintenance staff;those in a business responsible for maintaining the physical plant
musical group;an organization of musicians who perform together
town meeting;government of a town by an assembly of the qualified voters
tube;an electric underground railway
bear market;a market characterized by falling prices for securities
missionary post;an organization of missionaries in a foreign land sent to carry on religious work
chamber orchestra;small orchestra. usually plays classical music
section;a small army unit usually having a special function
bundesbank;the central bank of germany
tammany society;a political organization in new york city (late 1800's and early 1900's) seeking political control by corruption and bossism
department of computer science;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in computer science
order;a formal association of people with similar interests. 'he joined a golf club'. 'they formed a small lunch society'. 'men from the fraternal order will staff the soup kitchen today'
sect;a subdivision of a larger religious group
bank of japan;the central bank of japan
world bank;a united nations agency created to assist developing nations by loans guaranteed by member governments
sunday school;school meeting on sundays for religious instruction
american federation of labor congress of industrial organizations;the largest federation of labor unions in the united states. formed in 1955
defence;the team that is trying to prevent the other team from scoring. 'his teams are always good on defense'
roman church;the christian church based in the vatican and presided over by a pope and an episcopal hierarchy
people s party;a former political party in the us. formed in 1891 to advocate currency expansion and state control of railroads
jainism;sect founded in the 6th century as a revolt against hinduism
association for the advancement of retired persons;an association of people to promote the welfare of senior citizens
finance committee;a committee appointed to consider financial issues
posse;a temporary police force
imaginary being;"a creature of the imagination"
language school;a school for teaching foreign languages
commando;an amphibious military unit trained for raids into enemy territory
catholic school;a parochial school maintained by the catholic church
population commission;the commission of the economic and social council of the united nations that is concerned with population control
u.s. government;the executive and legislative and judicial branches of the federal government of the us
trusteeship council;a permanent council of the united nations that commissions a country (or countries) to undertake the administration of a territory
close corporation;a corporation owned by a few people. shares have no public market
stage crew;crew of workers who move scenery or handle properties in a theatrical production
destiny;"the ultimate agency that predetermines the course of events (often personified as a woman). 'we are helpless in the face of destiny'"
sestet;six performers or singers who perform together
naval forces;an organization of military naval forces
public utility;a company that performs a public service. subject to government regulation
witch;a being (usually female) imagined to have special powers derived from the devil
irs;the bureau of the treasury department responsible for tax collections
junior high;a secondary school usually including 7th and 8th grades
sextette;six performers or singers who perform together
customs union;an association of nations to promote free trade within the union and set common tariffs for for nations that are not members
institution;an organization founded and united for a specific purpose
department of local government;a permanent department created to perform the work of a local government
truck dealer;a firm that sells and buys trucks
agency;a business that serves other businesses
philosophy department;the academic department responsible for teaching philosophy
section;a specialized division of a large organization. 'you'll find it in the hardware department'. 'she got a job in the historical section of the treasury'
military service;a force that is a branch of the armed forces
papacy;the government of the roman catholic church
federal reserve bank;one of 12 regional banks that monitor and act as depositories for banks in their region
workforce;the force of workers available
religious order;a subdivision of a larger religious group
commercial enterprise;an enterprise connected with commerce
trio;three performers or singers who perform together
department;a specialized division of a large organization. 'you'll find it in the hardware department'. 'she got a job in the historical section of the treasury'
foreign mission;a permanent diplomatic mission headed by a minister
sociology department;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in sociology
personnel office;the division of a business responsible for hiring employees
trojan horse;a subversive group that supports the enemy and engages in espionage or sabotage. an enemy in your midst
us marine corps;an amphibious division of the us navy
cerberus;(greek mythology) 3-headed dog guarding the entrance to hades. son of typhon
mormons;church founded by joseph smith in 1830 with headquarters in salt lake city utah
citizens committee;a self-constituted organization to promote something
polytechnic;a technical school offering instruction in many industrial arts and applied sciences
offense;the team that has the ball (or puck) and is trying to score
troupe;organization of performers and associated personnel (especially theatrical). 'the traveling company all stayed at the same hotel'
international maritime organization;the united nations agency concerned with international maritime activities
day school;a school giving instruction during the daytime
closed shop;a company that hires only union members
kkk;a secret society of white southerners to resist black emancipation
eleven;a team that plays football
mantiger;a mythical monster having the head of man (with horns) and the body of a lion and the tail of a scorpion
mimir;(norse mythology) giant who guarded the well of wisdom
line personnel;personnel having direct job performance responsibilities
car manufacturer;a business engaged in the manufacture of automobiles
dance orchestra;a group of musicians playing popular music for dancing
antigone;(greek mythology) the daughter of king oedipus who disobeyed her father and was condemned to death
force;group of people willing to obey orders. 'a public force is necessary to give security to the rights of citizens'
commercial finance company;a finance company that makes loans to manufacturers and wholesalers
chain;a number of similar establishments (stores or restaurants or banks or hotels or theaters) under one ownership
resistance;a secret group organized to overthrow a government or occupation force
society of friends;a protestant sect. commonly called quakers
minotaur;(greek mythology) a mythical monster with the head of a bull and the body of a man. destroyed by theseus
iskcon;a society founded in the us in 1966. based on vedic scriptures. groups engage in joyful chanting of 'hare krishna' ('o krishna!')
little john;legendary follower of robin hood. noted for his size and strength
planning commission;a commission delegated to propose plans for future activities and developments
jack frost;a personification of winter
arms industry;an industry that manufacturers weapons of war
intelligence;a unit responsible for gathering and interpreting intelligence
standing committee;a permanent committee
mermaid;half woman and half fish, lives in the sea
division;a group of ships of similar type
charity;a foundation created to promote the public good (not for assistance to any particular individuals)
electric company;a public utility that provides electricity
northern baptist convention;an association of northern baptists
combination in restraint of trade;any monopoly or contract or combination or conspiracy intended to restrain commerce (which are illegal according to anti-trust laws of the us)
unit;an organization regarded as part of a larger social group. 'the coach said the offensive unit did a good job'. 'after the battle the soldier had trouble rejoining his unit'
blue;any organization or party whose uniforms or badges are blue. 'the union army was a vast blue'
newspaper;a business firm that publishes newspapers. 'murdoch owns many newspapers'
community chest;a charity supported by individual subscriptions. defrays the demands on a community for social welfare
national aeronautics and space administration;an independent agency of the us government responsible for aviation and spaceflight
kibbutz;(israel) a collective farm owned by its members. children are reared collectively
union army;the northern army during the american civil war
imaginary creature;"a creature of the imagination"
extraterrestrial;a form of life assumed to exist outside the earth or its atmosphere
christian church;a protestant church that accepts the bible as the only source of true christian faith and practices baptism by immersion
creek confederacy;a north american indian confederacy organized by the muskogee that dominated the se us before being removed to oklahoma
car company;a company that makes and sells automobiles
federation;a union of political organizations
frat;a social club for male undergraduates
pentecostal religion;any fundamentalist protestant church that uses revivalistic methods to achieve experiences comparable to the pentecostal experiences of the first christian disciples
band;instrumentalists not including string players
aluminum industry;a manufacturer of aluminum
legion;association of ex-servicemen. 'the american legion'
board of selectmen;a board of officials elected to administer the public business of a new england town
epa;a federal agency established to coordinate programs aimed at reducing pollution and protecting the environment
aladdin;in the arabian nights a boy who acquires a magic lamp from which he can summon a genie
economic commission for latin america;the commission of the economic and social council of the united nations that is concerned with economic development in latin america
international organization;an international alliance involving many different countries
trades union;an organization of employees formed to bargain with the employer. 'you have to join the union in order to get a job'
club;a team of professional baseball players who play and travel together. 'each club played six home games with teams in its own division'
medea;(greek mythology) a princess of colchis who aided jason in taking the golden fleece from her father
lodge;a formal association of people with similar interests. 'he joined a golf club'. 'they formed a small lunch society'. 'men from the fraternal order will staff the soup kitchen today'
chapter;a local branch of some fraternity or association. 'he joined the atlanta chapter'
commission on the status of women;the commission of the economic and social council of the united nations that is concerned with the status of women in different societies
police;the force of policemen and officers. 'the law came looking for him'
technical school;a school teaching mechanical and industrial arts and the applied sciences
union;an organization of employees formed to bargain with the employer. 'you have to join the union in order to get a job'
vital principle;"a hypothetical force to which the functions and qualities peculiar to living things are sometimes ascribed"
cooperative;an association formed and operated for the benefit of those using it
school;an educational institution. 'the school was founded in 1900'
country;a politically organized body of people under a single government. 'the state has elected a new president'
big band;a large dance or jazz band usually featuring improvised solos by lead musicians
coastguard;a military service responsible for the safety of maritime traffic in coastal waters
freddie mac;a corporation authorized by congress to provide a secondary market for residential mortgages
united states cabinet;a board to advise the president. members are the secretaries of executive departments. the us constitution does not provide for the cabinet
fagin;a villainous jew in charles dickens' novel 'oliver twist'. fagin was a fence who trained boys as pickpockets
fictional character;an imaginary person represented in a work of fiction (play or film or story). 'she is the main character in the novel'
department of the treasury;the federal department that collects revenue and administers federal finances. the treasury department was created in 1789
harpy;(greek mythology) vicious winged monster. often depicted as a bird with the head of a woman
weather bureau;agency responsible for gathering and interpreting meteorological data for weather study and forecasts
argus;(greek mythology) a giant with 100 eyes. was guardian of the heifer io and was slain by hermes
host;any organization that provides resources and facilities for a function or event. 'atlanta was chosen to be host for the olympic games'
syndicate;an association of companies for some definite purpose
board of trustees;a governing board elected or appointed to direct the policies of an educational institution
hohenzollern empire;1871-1919
department of mathematics;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in mathematics
hercules;in classical mythology a hero noted for his strength. performed 12 immense labors to gain immortality
minstrelsy;a troupe of minstrels
service firm;a business that makes its facilities available to others for a fee. achieves economy of scale
fao;the united nations agency concerned with the international organization of food and agriculture
troop;a cavalry unit corresponding to an infantry company
schola cantorum;a school that is part of a cathedral or monastery where boys with singing ability can receive a general education
appeals board;a board of officials that are not judicial but are appointed to hear appeals
euryale;(greek mythology) one of the three gorgons
yahoo;one of a race of brutes resembling men but subject to the houyhnhnms in swift's gulliver's travels
composite school;a large british or canadian secondary school for children of all abilities
state;the group of people comprising the government of a sovereign state. 'the state has lowered its income tax'
secret service;a government agency that conducts intelligence operations
american party;a former political party in the us. active in the 1850s to keep power out of the hands of immigrants and roman catholics
liberal party;a major political party in great britain in the 19th century. now the third largest. advocated reforms and improvement of the conditions of working people
selective service system;a federal agency that administers compulsory military service
economic commission for africa;the commission of the economic and social council of the united nations that is concerned with economic development of african nations
horse cavalry;an army unit mounted on horseback
lock ness monster;large aquatic animal supposed to resemble a serpent or plesiosaur of loch ness in scotland
artillery;an army unit that uses big guns
night school;a school that holds classes in the evenings for students who cannot attend during the day
hinduism;the dominant religion of india. characterized by a caste system and belief in reincarnation
commercial credit company;a finance company that makes loans to manufacturers and wholesalers
closely held corporation;stock is publicly traded but most is held by a few shareholders who have no plans to sell
rhythm section;the section of a band or orchestra that plays percussion instruments
sherlock holmes;a fictitious detective in stories by a. conan doyle
giant;an unusually large enterprise. 'walton built a retail giant'
mythical creature;a monster renowned in folklore and myth
gestapo;the secret state police in nazi germany. known for its terrorist methods
combination;an alliance of people or corporations or countries for a special purpose (formerly to achieve some antisocial end but now for general political or economic purposes)
hiring hall;a union-operated placement office where jobs are allotted to applicants according to seniority or rotation
sales staff;those in a business who are responsible for sales
firing squad;a squad formed to fire volleys at a military funeral or to carry out a military execution
fictitious character;an imaginary person represented in a work of fiction (play or film or story). 'she is the main character in the novel'
school of medicine;a graduate school offering study leading to a medical degree
church of england;the national church of england (and all other churches in other countries that share its beliefs). has its see in canterbury and the sovereign as its temporal head
u. s. army;the army of the united states of america
paul bunyan;a legendary giant lumberjack of the north woods of us and canada. had a blue ox named babe. 'the lakes of minnesota began when paul bunyan and babe's footprints filled with water'
coronary care unit;a hospital unit specially staffed and equipped to treat patients with serious cardiac problems
play group;a small informal nursery group meeting for half-day sessions
grade school;a school for young children. usually the first 6 or 8 grades
coptic church;the ancient christian church of egypt
staff;personnel who assist their superior in carrying out an assigned task. 'the hospital has an excellent nursing staff'. 'the general relied on his staff to make routine decisions'
orthodox catholic church;derived from the byzantine church and adhering to byzantine rites
narcissus;(greek mythology) a beautiful young man who fell in love with his own reflection
lilliputian;a 6-inch tall inhabitant of lilliput in swift's gulliver's travels
organization of american states;an association of countries in the w hemisphere. created in 1948 to promote military and economic and social and cultural cooperation
industrial union;a labor union that admits all workers in a given industry irrespective of their craft
anglican communion;the national church of england (and all other churches in other countries that share its beliefs). has its see in canterbury and the sovereign as its temporal head
soup kitchen;a place where food is dispensed to the needy
aluminum business;a manufacturer of aluminum
pac;committee formed by a special-interest group to raise money for their favorite political candidates
federal reserve board;the 7-member board governing the federal reserve system
world power;a state powerful enough to influence events throughout the world
marriage mart;a business that arranges marriage contracts
un;an organization of independent states to promote international peace and security
major league;the most important league in any sport (especially baseball)
tammany;a political organization in new york city (late 1800's and early 1900's) seeking political control by corruption and bossism
preschool;an educational institution for children too young for elementary school
werewolf;a monster able to change appearance from human to wolf
department of english;the academic department responsible for teaching english and american literature
football league;a league of football teams
scout troop;a unit of girl or boy scouts
quintette;five performers or singers who perform together
party;an organization to gain political power. 'in 1992 perot tried to organize a third party at the national level'
ajax;a mythical greek hero. a warrior who fought against troy in homer's iliad
department of sociology;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in sociology
department of music;the academic department responsible for teaching music and music appreciation
league;an association of sports teams that organizes matches for its members
choir school;a school that is part of a cathedral or monastery where boys with singing ability can receive a general education
fire department;the department of local government responsible for preventing and extinguishing fires
lighting industry;an industry devoted to manufacturing and selling and installing lighting
ballet company;a company that produces ballets
communist party;in communist countries: the sole political party of the state
united nations international children s emergency fund;an agency of the united nations responsible for programs to aid education and the health of children and mothers in developing countries
mission;a group of representatives or delegates
rack railway;for steep mountains. a cogwheel on the locomotive engages cogs on a center rail to provide traction
local government;the government of a local area
kindergarten;a preschool for children age 4 to 6 to prepare them for primary school
unicorn;an imaginary creature represented as a white horse with a long horn growing from its forehead
railroad line;the commercial organization responsible for operating a railway system
agamemnon;(classical mythology) the king who lead the greeks against troy in the trojan war
correspondence school;a school that teaches nonresident students by mail
brunhild;(norse mythology) a valkyrie who loved the hero siegfried. when he deceived her she had him killed and then committed suicide
organ;a government agency or instrument devoted to the performance of some specific function. 'the census bureau is an organ of the commerce department'
aa;an international organization that provides a support group for persons trying to overcome alcoholism
hunt club;an association of huntsmen who hunt for sport
closed end investment company;a regulated investment company that issues a fixed number of shares which are listed on a stock market
secret society;a society that conceals its activities from nonmembers
regulatory authority;a government agency that regulates businesses in the public interest
trade school;a secondary school teaching the skilled trades
royal air force;the airforce of great britain
economic commission for europe;the commission of the economic and social council of the united nations that is concerned with economic development in europe
red cross;an international organization that cares for the sick or wounded or homeless in wartime
junior school;british school for children aged 7-11
bomber crew;the crew of a bomber
airforce;an organization of military air forces
electronics company;a company that makes and sells electronic instruments
brunnhilde;(norse mythology) a valkyrie who loved the hero siegfried. when he deceived her she had him killed and then committed suicide
funicular;a railway up the side of a mountain pulled by a moving cable and having counterbalancing ascending and descending cars
trade union;an organization of employees formed to bargain with the employer. 'you have to join the union in order to get a job'
university;a large and diverse institution of higher education created to educate for life and for a profession and to grant degrees
ida;an agency of the united nations affiliated with the world bank
expedition;an organized group of people undertaking a journey for a particular purpose. 'an expedition was sent to explore mars'
department of linguistics;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in linguistics
riding school;a school where horsemanship is taught and practiced
reserve officers training corps;a training program to prepare college students to be commissioned officers
fifth column;a subversive group that supports the enemy and engages in espionage or sabotage. an enemy in your midst
transit line;a line providing public transit
nemean lion;(greek mythology) an enormous lion strangled by hercules as the first of his 12 labors
salvation army;a charitable and religious organization to evangelize and to care for the poor and homeless
service;a force that is a branch of the armed forces
uniat church;any of several eastern churches acknowledging papal authority but retaining their own rites and canon law
conglomerate;a group of companies run as a single organization
industrial loan company;a finance company that makes small loans to industrial workers
major league team;a team that plays in a major league
american labor party;a former political party in the us. formed in 1936 in new york when labor and liberals bolted the democratic party
state;a politically organized body of people under a single government. 'the state has elected a new president'
auto manufacturer;a business engaged in the manufacture of automobiles
baptists;any of various evangelical protestant churches that believe in the baptism of voluntary believers
car dealer;a firm that sells and buys cars
academic department;a division of a school that is responsible for a given subject
line of defense;any organization whose responsibility it is to defend against something. 'police are the major line of defense against crime'
governing board;a board that manages the affairs of an institution
imf;a united nations agency to promote trade by increasing the exchange stability of the major currencies
jug band;a musical group that uses jugs and washboards and kazoos and other improvised instruments
allies;an alliance of nations joining together to fight a common enemy
pipeline company;a company that operates oil pipelines for the oil industry
international bank for reconstruction and development;a united nations agency created to assist developing nations by loans guaranteed by member governments
department of biology;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in biology
company;an institution created to conduct business. 'he only invests in large well-established companies'. 'he started the company in his garage'
mafia;a crime syndicate in the united states. organized in families. believed to have important relations to the sicilian mafia
shaktism;a hindu sect worshiping shakti
defence;an organization of defenders that provides resistance against attack. 'he joined the defense against invasion'
emile;the boy whose upbringing was described by jean jacques rousseau
clearing house;a central collection place where banks exchange checks or drafts. participants maintain an account against which credits or debits are posted
purchasing department;the division of a business responsible for purchases
department of agriculture;the federal department that administers programs that provide services to farmers (including research and soil conservation and efforts to stabilize the farming economy). created in 1862
electra;(greek mythology) the daughter of agamemnon and clytemnestra. persuaded her brother (orestes) to avenge agamemnon's death by helping her to kill clytemnestra and her lover
duet;two performers or singers who perform together
sita;wife of ramachandra
council of economic advisors;an executive agency responsible for providing economic advice to the president
nature;"a causal agent creating and controlling things in the universe. 'nature has seen to it that men are stronger than women'"
force;a unit that is part of some military service. 'he sent caesar a force of six thousand men'
nation;a politically organized body of people under a single government. 'the state has elected a new president'
octette;eight performers or singers who perform together
division;a league ranked by quality. 'he played baseball in class d for two years'. 'princeton is in the ncaa division 1-aa'
pontificate;the government of the roman catholic church
pool;an association of companies for some definite purpose
enterprise;an organization created for business ventures. 'a growing enterprise must have a bold leader'"an organization created for business ventures. 'a growing enterprise must have a bold leader'"
firedrake;a creature of teutonic mythology. usually represented as breathing fire and having a reptilian body and sometimes wings
commission plan;a municipal government that combines legislative and executive authority in the members of a commission
secret police;a police force that operates in secrecy (usually against persons suspected of treason or sedition)
apparel chain;a chain of clothing stores
booger;an imaginary monster used to frighten children
middle school;a school for students intermediate between elementary school and college. usually grades 9 to 12
service industry;an industry that provides services
automobile industry;a manufacturer of automobiles
jazz band;a small band of jazz musicians
sextet;six performers or singers who perform together
giro;a british financial system in which a bank or a post office transfers money from one account to another when they receive authorization to do so
editorial department;the department of a publishing business that edits material for publication
world meteorological organization;the united nations agency concerned with the international collection of meteorological data
united nations children s fund;an agency of the united nations responsible for programs to aid education and the health of children and mothers in developing countries
bugaboo;an imaginary monster used to frighten children
art department;the academic department responsible for teaching art and art appreciation
ball club;a team of professional baseball players who play and travel together. 'each club played six home games with teams in its own division'
tom thumb;english folklore: an imaginary hero who was no taller than his father's thumb
opera company;a company that produces operas
maquis;the french underground that fought against the german occupation in world war ii
king oedipus;(greek mythology) a tragic king who unknowingly killed his father and married his mother. the subject of the drama oedipus rex by sophocles
second reich;1871-1919
vanguard;the leading units moving at the head of an army
amphictyony;an association of neighboring states or tribes in ancient greece. established originally to defend a common religious center
bucket shop;an unethical or overly aggressive brokerage firm
string quartette;an instrumental quartet with 2 violins and a viola and a cello
circus;a travelling company of entertainers. including trained animals. 'he ran away from home to join the circus'
merman;half man and half fish, lives in the sea
irish republican army;a militant organization of irish nationalists who use guerrilla warfare in an effort to achieve a united independent ireland
baseball club;a team of professional baseball players who play and travel together. 'each club played six home games with teams in its own division'
department of health education and welfare;a former executive department. created in 1953 and divided in 1979
mantichora;a mythical monster having the head of man (with horns) and the body of a lion and the tail of a scorpion
social development commission;the commission of the economic and social council of the united nations that is concerned with social development
chimaera;(greek mythology) fire-breathing she-monster with a lion's head and a goat's body and a serpent's tail. daughter of typhon
removal firm;a company that moves the possessions of a family or business from one site to another
afl cio;the largest federation of labor unions in the united states. formed in 1955
community;a group of nations having common interests. 'they hoped to join the nato community'
accounting firm;a firm of accountants who provide accounting and auditing services for a fee
anabaptist denomination;a protestant sect denying infant baptism and baptising only believers
enkidu;(sumerian) legendary friend of gilgamish
environmental protection agency;a federal agency established to coordinate programs aimed at reducing pollution and protecting the environment
sea serpent;huge creature of the sea resembling a snake or dragon
work party;an organized group of workmen
treasury department;the federal department that collects revenue and administers federal finances. the treasury department was created in 1789
subsidiary company;a company that is completely controlled by another company
auto maker;a business engaged in the manufacture of automobiles
dental school;a graduate school offering study leading to degrees in dentistry
alien;a form of life assumed to exist outside the earth or its atmosphere
uniate church;any of several eastern churches acknowledging papal authority but retaining their own rites and canon law
detail;a crew of workers selected for a particular task. 'a detail was sent to remove the fallen trees'
tristan;(medieval legends) the nephew of king mark of cornwall who fell in love with his uncle's bride (iseult) after they mistakenly drank a love potion that left them eternally in love with each other
refining industry;an industry that produces and delivers oil and oil products
department of economics;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in economics
car maker;a business engaged in the manufacture of automobiles
battalion;an army unit usually consisting of a headquarters and three or more companies
minor league;a league of teams that do not belong to a major league (especially baseball)
trust company;an organization (usually with a commercial bank) that is engaged as a trustee or fiduciary or agent in handling trust funds or estates of custodial arrangements or stock transfers or related services
southern baptist convention;an association of southern baptists
bull moose party;a former political party in the us. founded by theodore roosevelt during the presidential campaign of 1912. its emblem was a picture of a bull moose
oas;an association of countries in the w hemisphere. created in 1948 to promote military and economic and social and cultural cooperation
achilles;a mythical greek hero of homer's iliad. a foremost greek warrior at the siege of troy. when he was a baby his mother tried to make him immortal by bathing him in a magical river but the heel by which she held him remained vulnerable--his 'achilles' heel'
savings and loan;a thrift institution that is required by law to make a certain percentage of its loans as home mortgages
auction house;a firm that conducts auctions
index fund;a mutual fund that invests in the stocks that are the basis of a well-known stock or bond index
reserve bank;one of 12 regional banks that monitor and act as depositories for banks in their region
telephone company;a public utility that provides telephone service
guild;a formal association of people with similar interests. 'he joined a golf club'. 'they formed a small lunch society'. 'men from the fraternal order will staff the soup kitchen today'
house;members of a business organization. 'he worked for a brokerage house'
family;a social unit living together. 'he moved his family to virginia'. 'it was a good christian household'. 'i waited until the whole house was asleep'. 'the teacher asked how many people made up his home'
sterling area;the group of countries whose currencies are tied to the british pound sterling
british cabinet;the senior ministers of the british government
airway;a commercial enterprise that provides scheduled flights for passengers
company;organization of performers and associated personnel (especially theatrical). 'the traveling company all stayed at the same hotel'
task force;a temporary military unit formed to accomplish a particular objective
open end investment company;a regulated investment company that regularly sells and redeems its shares
think factory;a company that does research for hire and issues reports on the implications
mohammadanism;muslims collectively and their civilization. based on a monotheistic religion believing that mohammed was the last and major prophet of god. 'the term mohammedanism is offensive to muslims'
business firm;members of a business organization. 'he worked for a brokerage house'
squad;a cooperative unit
eastern orthodox church;derived from the byzantine church and adhering to byzantine rites
minors;a league of teams that do not belong to a major league (especially baseball)
ethics committee;a committee appointed to consider ethical issues
agriculture department;the federal department that administers programs that provide services to farmers (including research and soil conservation and efforts to stabilize the farming economy). created in 1862
internal revenue service;the bureau of the treasury department responsible for tax collections
helen of troy;(greek mythology) the beautiful daughter of zeus and leda who was abducted by paris. the greek army sailed to troy to get her back which resulted in the trojan war
quintet;five performers or singers who perform together
cia;an independent agency of the us government responsible for collecting and coordinating intelligence and counterintelligence activities abroad in the national interest
unitarian church;the protestant denomination that rejects the doctrine of the trinity
electronics industry;a manufacturer of electronic products
infant school;british school for children aged 5-7
sphinx;(greek mythology) a riddling winged monster with a woman's head and breast on a lion's body. daughter of typhon
rotary international;a group of businessmen in a town organized as a service club and to promote world peace
parts department;the division of a business (e.g. a service garage) the sells replacement parts
sasquatch;large hairy humanoid creature said to live in wilderness areas of us and canada
psychopomp;a conductor of souls to the afterworld. 'hermes was their psychopomp'
mechanized cavalry;an armored unit of a modern army equipped with motor vehicles
senior high school;a public secondary school usually including grades 9 through 12. 'he goes to the neighborhood highschool'
shore patrol;the military police of the navy
school of music;a school for the study of music
military personnel;soldiers collectively
dance school;a school where students are taught to dance
ad agency;an agency that designs advertisement to call public attention to its clients
toy business;an industry that manufactures and sells toys for children
battle group;an army unit usually consisting of five companies
vfw;an organization of u.s. war veterans
plant department;the division of a business responsible for building and maintaining the physical plant
thrift institution;a depository financial institution intended to encourage personal savings and home buying
election commission;a commission delegated to supervise an election
procrustes;(greek mythology) a mythical giant who was a thief and murderer. he would capture people and tie them to an iron bed, stretching them or hacking off their legs to make them fit. was killed by theseus
european economic community;an international organization of european countries formed in 1958 to reduce trade barriers and increase cooperation among its members
arminian baptist;group of baptist congregations believing the teachings of the dutch theologian jacobus arminius (who opposed the doctrine of strict predestination of the calvinists)
magazine;a business firm that publishes magazines. 'he works for a magazine'
power structure;the organization of people at different ranks in an administrative body
racket club;club for players of racket sports
bus company;a public utility providing local transportation
labor;the federal department responsible for promoting the working conditions of wage earners. created in 1913
ministry;a government department under the direction of a minister
christianity;a group of christians. any group professing christian doctrine or belief. 'church is a biblical term for assembly'
federal government;a government with strong central powers
railway system;the commercial organization responsible for operating a railway system
garrison;the troops who maintain and guard a fortified place
mariachi;a group of street musicians in mexico
third reich;the nazi dictatorship under hitler (1933-1945)
brokerage;the business of a broker. charges a fee to arrange a contract between two parties
shoe industry;an industry that manufactures and sells shoes
history department;the academic department responsible for teaching history
takeover target;a company that has been chosen as attractive for takeover by a potential acquirer
denomination;a group of religious congregations having its own organization and a distinctive faith
paper;a business firm that publishes newspapers. 'murdoch owns many newspapers'
pandora;in greek mythology: the first woman. created by hephaestus on orders from zeus who presented her to epimetheus along with a box filled with evils
violin section;the section of an orchestra that plays violins
subdivision;an administrative division of some larger or more complex organization. 'a branch of congress'
service department;the division of a business that provides customer services
federal office;a department of the federal government
french foreign office;the french department in charge of foreign affairs. referred to familiarly by its address in paris
medical school;a graduate school offering study leading to a medical degree
prime mover;"a self-caused agent that is the cause of all things. 'god is the first cause'"
leda;(greek mythology) a queen of sparta who was raped by zeus who had taken the form of a swan. helen of troy was conceived in the rape of leda
mormon church;church founded by joseph smith in 1830 with headquarters in salt lake city utah
political action committee;committee formed by a special-interest group to raise money for their favorite political candidates
bigfoot;large hairy humanoid creature said to live in wilderness areas of us and canada
labour party;a political party formed in great britain in 1900. characterized by the promotion of labor's interests and the socialization of key industries
welcoming committee;a committee to welcome new residents to a community
opec;an organization of countries formed in 1961 to agree on a common policy for the sale of petroleum
child welfare agency;an agency responsible for social work concerned with the welfare and vocational training of children
squad;a smallest army unit
death;the personification of death. 'death walked the streets of the plague-bound city'
hunt;an association of huntsmen who hunt for sport
funicular railway;a railway up the side of a mountain pulled by a moving cable and having counterbalancing ascending and descending cars
church of rome;the christian church based in the vatican and presided over by a pope and an episcopal hierarchy
icao;the united nations agency concerned with civil aviation
united states;the executive and legislative and judicial branches of the federal government of the us
quartet;four performers or singers who perform together
private security force;a privately employed group hired to protect the security of a business or industry
physics department;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in physics
family business;a corporation that is entirely owned by the members of a single family
regiment;army unit smaller than a division
russian orthodox church;independent with its own patriarch of moscow. until 1917 the established church
scotland yard;the detective department of the metropolitan police force of london
antihero;a protagonist who lacks the characteristics that would make him a hero (or her a heroine)
personnel;group of people willing to obey orders. 'a public force is necessary to give security to the rights of citizens'
septet;seven performers or singers who perform together
foreign mission;an organization of missionaries in a foreign land sent to carry on religious work
nondiscretionary trust;an investment trust that can buy only those securities listed when the trust was organized
advisory board;a board appointed to advise the chief administrator
farm club;a minor-league team that is owned by a major-league team (especially in baseball)
shiah islam;one of the two main branches of orthodox islam. mainly in iran
first reich;the lands ruled by charlemagne. a continuation of the roman empire in europe
soviets;the government (political and military) of the soviet union. 'the soviets said they wanted to increase trade with europe'
labor party;a political party formed in great britain in 1900. characterized by the promotion of labor's interests and the socialization of key industries
conjugal family;a family consisting of parents and their children and grandparents of a marital partner
local department;a permanent department created to perform the work of a local government
airline;a commercial enterprise that provides scheduled flights for passengers
phalanx;a body of troops in close array
international association of lions clubs;club dedicated to promoting responsible citizenship and good government and community and national and international welfare
militant tendency;a trotskyist political organization in great britain set up in 1964 inside the labour party
military band;a group of musicians playing brass and woodwind and percussion instruments
five;a team that plays basketball
bureau;an administrative unit of government. 'the central intelligence agency'. 'the census bureau'. 'office of management and budget'. 'tennessee valley authority'
office;professional or clerical workers in an office. 'the whole office was late the morning of the blizzard'
commission;a group of representatives or delegates
commission;a special group delegated to consider some matter
united nations agency;an agency of the united nations
interior department;the federal department charged with conservation and the development of natural resources. created in 1849
reform judaism;the most liberal jews. jews who do not follow the talmud strictly but try to adapt all of the historical forms of judaism to the modern world
aarp;an association of people to promote the welfare of senior citizens
american legion;the largest organization of u.s. war veterans
carthage;an ancient city state on the north african coast near modern tunis. founded by phoenicians. destroyed and rebuilt by romans. razed by arabs in 697
agent bank;a bank that acts as an agent for a foreign bank
white squire;a white knight that buys less than a majority interest
battery;a unit composed of the pitcher and catcher
trucking industry;an industry that provides transportation for commercial products
minor league team;a team that plays in a minor league
anglican church;the national church of england (and all other churches in other countries that share its beliefs). has its see in canterbury and the sovereign as its temporal head
band;a group of musicians playing popular music for dancing
sylph;an elemental being believed to inhabit the air
enemy;an opposing military force. 'the enemy attacked at dawn'
majors;the most important league in any sport (especially baseball)
uncle tom;a servile black character in a novel by harriet beecher stowe
symphony;a large orchestra. can perform symphonies. 'we heard the vienna symphony'
little league;a commercially sponsored baseball league for players between 8 and 12 years of age
us cabinet;a board to advise the president. members are the secretaries of executive departments. the us constitution does not provide for the cabinet
army unit;a military unit that is part of an army
board of education;a board in charge of local public schools
hector;(greek mythology) a mythical trojan who has killed by achilles during the trojan war
vocational school;a secondary school teaching the skilled trades
air unit;a military unit that is part of the airforce
beatrice;a woman who guided dante through paradise in the divine comedy
fellowship;an association of people who share common beliefs or activities. 'the message was addressed not just to employees but to every member of the company family'. 'the church welcomed new members into its fellowship'
bellerophon;(greek mythology) a mythical hero of corinth who performed miracles on the winged horse pegasus (especially killing the monster chimera)
aec;a former agency (from 1947 to 1977) that was responsible for research into atomic energy and its peacetime uses in the us
banking concern;a financial institution that accepts deposits and channels the money into lending activities. 'he cashed a check at the bank'. 'that bank holds the mortgage on my home'
cosa nostra;a crime syndicate in the united states. organized in families. believed to have important relations to the sicilian mafia
international labour organization;the united nations agency concerned with the interests of labor
packaging company;a company that packages goods for sale or shipment or storage
don quixote;the hero of a romance by cervantes. chivalrous but impractical
federation;an organization formed by merging several groups or parties
democratic republican party;a former major political party in the us in the early 19th century. opposed the old federalist party. favored a strict interpretation of the constitution in order to limit the powers of the federal government
aircrew;the crew of an aircraft
press gang;a detachment empowered to force civilians to serve in the army or navy
movie industry;those involved in producing and distributing movies
nursing school;a school for training nurses
branch;an administrative division of some larger or more complex organization. 'a branch of congress'
hollywood;those involved in producing and distributing movies
economic and social council commission;a commission of the economic and social council of the united nations
team;a cooperative unit
united church of christ;merger of the congregational christian church and the evangelical and reformed church
psyche;the immaterial part of a person. the actuating cause of an individual life
us army;the army of the united states of america
service agency;a business that makes its facilities available to others for a fee. achieves economy of scale
office of management and budget;the executive agency that advises the president on the federal budget
central intelligence agency;an independent agency of the us government responsible for collecting and coordinating intelligence and counterintelligence activities abroad in the national interest
limited company;(british) a company that is organized to give its owners limited liability
string quartet;an instrumental quartet with 2 violins and a viola and a cello
griffin;winged monster with an eagle-like head and body of a lion
trust;a consortium of companies formed to limit competition. 'they set up the trust in the hope of gaining a monopoly'
rumpelstiltskin;a dwarf in one of the fairy stories of the brothers grimm. tells a woman he will not hold her to a promise if she can guess his name and when she discovers it he is so furious that he destroys himself
choir;a chorus that sings as part of a religious ceremony
committee;a special group delegated to consider some matter
typhoeus;(greek mythology) son of gaea and tartarus who created the whirlwinds. had a terrifying voice and 100 dragon heads that spurted fire
land;a politically organized body of people under a single government. 'the state has elected a new president'
wieland;(european mythology) a supernatural smith and king of the elves. identified with norse volund
energy;the federal department responsible for maintaining a national energy policy. created in 1977
eec;an international organization of european countries formed in 1958 to reduce trade barriers and increase cooperation among its members
line organization;the organizational structure of activities contributing directly to the organization's output
tammany hall;a political organization in new york city (late 1800's and early 1900's) seeking political control by corruption and bossism
powerhouse;a team considered to be the best of its class
works council;(chiefly brit) a council representing employer and employees of a plant or business to discuss working conditions etc. also: a committee representing the workers elected to negotiate with management about grievances and wages etc
res publica;a politically organized body of people under a single government. 'the state has elected a new president'
palace;the governing group of a kingdom. 'the palace issued an order binding on all subjects'
rank and file;the ordinary members of an organization (such as the soldiers excluding the officers of an army). 'the strike was supported by the union rank and file'. 'he rose from the ranks to become a colonel'
liberty party;a former political party in the us. formed in 1839 to oppose the practice of slavery. merged with the free soil party in 1848
combination;a group of people (often temporary) having a common purpose. 'they were a winning combination'
closed end fund;a regulated investment company that issues a fixed number of shares which are listed on a stock market
foundation;an institution supported by an endowment
detachment;a small unit of troops of special composition
occult;"supernatural forces and events and beings collectively. 'she doesn't believe in the supernatural'"
sivaism;a hindu sect worshiping shiva
department of transportation;the federal department that institutes and coordinates national transportation programs. created in 1966
mutual fund;a regulated investment company that regularly sells and redeems its shares
police force;the force of policemen and officers. 'the law came looking for him'
stock company;a theatrical company that performs plays from a repertoire
placement center;an office that finds suitable employment for applicants
state;the federal department that sets and maintains foreign policies. 'the department of state was created in 1789'
machine;a group that controls the activities of a political party. 'he was endorsed by the democratic machine'
international monetary fund;a united nations agency to promote trade by increasing the exchange stability of the major currencies
plastics industry;an industry that manufactures plastic articles
printing business;a company that does commercial printing
board of directors;a group of persons chosen to govern the affairs of a corporation or other large institution
steel band;a band that plays instruments made from the heads of oil drums (caribbean islands)
diplomatic mission;a mission serving diplomatic ends
horse;troops trained to fight on horseback: '500 horse led the attack'
insurer;a financial institution that sells insurance
state department;in the us: a department of government in one of the 50 states
vicariate;the religious institution under the authority of a vicar
building department;the division of a business responsible for building and maintaining the physical plant
pressure group;a group of people who try actively to influence legislation
jewish religion;jews who practice a religion based on the old testament and the talmud
heracles;in classical mythology a hero noted for his strength. performed 12 immense labors to gain immortality
assemblies of god;a charismatic protestant denomination in the us
conservative judaism;jews who keep some of the requirements of the mosaic law but allow for adaptation of other requirements (as some of the dietary laws) to fit modern circumstances
nazi party;the national socialist german workers' party founded in germany in 1919 and brought to power by hitler in 1933
dealership;a business established or operated under an authorization to sell or distribute a company's goods or services in a particular area
court;the sovereign and his advisers who are the governing power of a state
light company;a public utility that provides electricity
organisation;"a group of people who work together"
travel agency;an agency that arranges personal travel
staggered board of directors;a board of directors a portion of whose members are elected each year instead of all members being elected annually
investment company;a financial institution that sells shares to individuals and invests in securities issued by other companies
mover;a company that moves the possessions of a family or business from one site to another
railway;the commercial organization responsible for operating a railway system
secretariate;an administrative unit responsible for maintaining records and other secretarial duties. especially for international organizations
bureau of customs;the agency of the treasury department that enforces import tariffs
department of commerce;the federal department that promotes and administers domestic and foreign trade (including management of the census and the patent office). created in 1913
corp;a business whose articles of incorporation have been approved in some state
professional association;an association of practitioners of a given profession
foreign office;the government department in charge of foreign relations
world organization;an international alliance involving many different countries
corps;an army unit usually consisting of two or more divisions
extended family;a family consisting of the nuclear family and their blood relatives
defending team;the team that is trying to prevent the other team from scoring. 'his teams are always good on defense'
vicarship;the religious institution under the authority of a vicar
houyhnhnm;one of a race of intelligent horses who ruled the yahoos in swift's gulliver's travels
skiffle group;(british) a band of musicians who play skiffle
imo;the united nations agency concerned with international maritime activities
jason;(greek mythology) the husband of medea and leader of the argonauts who sailed in quest of the golden fleece
troll;(scandinavian folklore) a supernatural creature (either a dwarf or a giant) that is supposed to live in caves or in the mountains
musketry;musketeers and their muskets collectively
air corps;previously the air division of the us army
squadron;a unit of the us air force larger than a flight and smaller than a group
protestant church;the protestant churches and denominations collectively
plato s academy;a school established by plato in ancient athens. 'plato's academy continued for several hundred years after plato died'
nato;an international organization created in 1949 by the north atlantic treaty for purposes of collective security
shell corporation;a company that is incorporated but has no assets or operations
conference;an association of sports teams that organizes matches for its members
ecosoc;a permanent council of the united nations. responsible for economic and social conditions
wayland;(european mythology) a supernatural smith and king of the elves. identified with norse volund
railway line;the commercial organization responsible for operating a railway system
theseus;(greek mythology) a hero noted for his many great deeds: killed procrustes and the minotaur and defeated the amazons
chorus;a group of people assembled to sing together
cartel;a consortium of companies formed to limit competition. 'they set up the trust in the hope of gaining a monopoly'
cyclopes;(greek mythology) one of a race of giants having a single eye in the middle of their forehead
rearguard;a detachment assigned to protect the rear of a (retreating) military body
cinderella;a young girl who is saved from her stepmother and stepsisters by her fairy godmother and a handsome prince
special forces;a division of the united states army that is specially trained for guerrilla fighting
tristram;(medieval legends) the nephew of king mark of cornwall who fell in love with his uncle's bride (iseult) after they mistakenly drank a love potion that left them eternally in love with each other
high;a public secondary school usually including grades 9 through 12. 'he goes to the neighborhood highschool'
interior;the federal department charged with conservation and the development of natural resources. created in 1849
investment firm;a financial institution that sells shares to individuals and invests in securities issued by other companies
transportation;the federal department that institutes and coordinates national transportation programs. created in 1966
flying school;a school for teaching students to fly airplanes
gymnasium;a school for students intermediate between elementary school and college. usually grades 9 to 12
welfare state;a government that undertakes responsibility for the welfare of its citizens through programs in public health and public housing and pensions and unemployment compensation etc.
brokerage;a stock broker's business. charges a fee to act as intermediary between buyer and seller
bank;a financial institution that accepts deposits and channels the money into lending activities. 'he cashed a check at the bank'. 'that bank holds the mortgage on my home'
film industry;those involved in producing and distributing movies
school of law;a graduate school offering study leading to a law degree
zen;school of mahayana buddhism asserting that enlightenment can come through meditation and intuition rather than faith. china and japan
international atomic energy agency;the united nations agency concerned with atomic energy
oil industry;an industry that produces and delivers oil and oil products
bowling league;a league of bowling teams
city council;a municipal body that can pass ordnances and appropriate funds etc.
battery;group of guns or missile launchers operated together at one place
posse comitatus;a temporary police force
dance band;a group of musicians playing popular music for dancing
divan;a muslim council of state
education department;the federal department that administers all federal programs dealing with education (including federal aid to educational institutions and students). created 1979
ecosoc commission;a commission of the economic and social council of the united nations
secondary modern school;a former british secondary school emphasizing practical rather than academic education
calvinistic baptist;group of baptist congregations believing the teachings of the french theologian john calvin who believed in strict predetermination
baseball team;a team that plays baseball
flying squad;a mobile group of trained people (police or executives or officials) able to move quickly in the case of emergencies
conservatory;the faculty and students of a school specializing in one of the fine arts
pantaloon;a character in the commedia dell'arte. portrayed as a foolish old man
public mover;a company that moves the possessions of a family or business from one site to another
communist party;a political party advocating communism in the us
conservancy;(british) a commission with jurisdiction over fisheries and navigation in a port or river
bluebeard;(fairy tale) a monstrous villain who marries seven women. he kills the first six for disobedience
national guard;us military reserves recruited by the states and equipped by the federal government. subject to call by either
mythical monster;a monster renowned in folklore and myth
secondary school;a school for students intermediate between elementary school and college. usually grades 9 to 12
night shift;workers who work during the night (as midnight to 8 a.m.)
legion;archaic terms for army
private corporation;a corporation owned by a few people. shares have no public market
combo;a small band of jazz musicians
jazz group;a small band of jazz musicians
public charity;a charity that is deemed to receive the major part of its support from the public (rather than from a small group of individuals)
chemistry department;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in chemistry
government department;a department of government
draft board;a board to select personnel for involuntary military service
high anglican church;a group in the anglican church that emphasizes the catholic tradition (especially in sacraments and rituals and obedience to church authority)
ways and means committee;a permanent committee of the us house of representatives that makes recommendations to the house on all bills that would raise revenue
biology department;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in biology
giant;an imaginary figure of superhuman size and strength. appears in folklore and fair tales
hud;the federal department that administers federal program dealing with better housing and urban renewal. created in 1965
sabbath school;school meeting on sundays for religious instruction
steamship line;an organization responsible for the operation of a fleet of steamships
local post office;a local branch of the post office department
association;a formal organization of people. 'he joined the modern language association'
market;the securities markets in the aggregate. 'the market always frustates the small investor'
psychology department;the academic department responsible for teaching and research in psychology
instrumentality;a subsidiary organ of government created for a special purpose. 'are the judicial instrumentalities of local governments adequate?'. 'he studied the french instrumentalities for law enforcement'
vaisnavism;hindu sect worshiping of vishnu
quartette;four performers or singers who perform together
regulatory agency;a government agency that regulates businesses in the public interest
whig party;a former political party in the us. formed in 1834 in opposition to the democratic party. advocated a loose interpretation of the constitution and high protective tariffs
string orchestra;an orchestra playing only string instruments
common market;an international organization of european countries formed in 1958 to reduce trade barriers and increase cooperation among its members
school;an educational institution's faculty and students. 'the school keeps parents informed'. 'the whole school turned out for the game'
el cid;the hero of a spanish epic poem from the 12th century
justice;the federal department responsible for enforcing federal laws (including the enforcement of all civil rights legislation). created in 1870
judicial branch;the branch of the united states government responsible for the administration of justice
daedalus;(greek mythology) an athenian inventor who built the labyrinth of minos. to escape the labyrinth he fashioned wings for himself and his sone icarus
department of commerce and labor;a former executive department. created in 1903 and split into two departments in 1913
wesleyan methodists;original methodist church
peace corps;a civilian organization sponsored by the us government. helps people in developing countries
roman catholic;the christian church based in the vatican and presided over by a pope and an episcopal hierarchy
naval unit;a military unit that is part of a navy
church school;a private school run by a religious body
telephone service;a public utility that provides telephone service
north atlantic treaty organization;an international organization created in 1949 by the north atlantic treaty for purposes of collective security
rights democratic party;a former political party in the us. formed in 1948 by southern democrats opposed to the candidacy of harry s truman
publisher;a firm in the publishing business
show biz;those involved in providing entertainment: radio and television and films and theater
major power;a state powerful enough to influence events throughout the world
military;the military forces of a nation
comptroller of the currency;the agency of the treasury department responsible for controlling the currency
gryphon;winged monster with an eagle-like head and body of a lion
industrial bank;a finance company that makes small loans to industrial workers
united states trade representative;the executive agency that administers the president's policies on international trade
publishing house;a firm in the publishing business
shipbuilding industry;an industry that builds ships
gendarmerie;french police force. a group of gendarmes or gendarmes collectively
insurance underwriter;a financial institution that sells insurance
acquirer;a bank gaining financial control over another financial institution through a payment in cash or an exchange of stock
pythoness;a witch with powers of divination
first cause;"a self-caused agent that is the cause of all things. 'god is the first cause'"
establishment;any large organization
food and agriculture organization;the united nations agency concerned with the international organization of food and agriculture
press agency;an agency to collects news reports for newspapers and distributes it electronically
poltergeist;a ghost that announces its presence with rapping and the creation of disorder
legislative branch;the branch of the united states government that has the power of legislating
reserve;armed forces that are not on active duty but can be called in an emergency
social unit;an organization regarded as part of a larger social group. 'the coach said the offensive unit did a good job'. 'after the battle the soldier had trouble rejoining his unit'
orthodox judaism;jews who strictly observe the mosaic law as interpreted in the talmud
joint stock company;a company (usually unincorporated) which has the capital of its members pooled in a common fund. transferable shares represent ownership interest. shareholders are legally liable for all debts of the company
war department;a former executive department. created in 1789 and combined with the navy department in 1947
u. s. army special forces;a division of the united states army that is specially trained for guerrilla fighting
consulting firm;a firm of experts providing professional advice to an organization for a fee
overhead railway;an electric elevated railway
pangloss;an incurable optimist in 'candide' (a satire by voltaire)
headquarters staff;military staff stationed at headquarters
sterling bloc;the group of countries whose currencies are tied to the british pound sterling
football team;a team that plays football
collective;members of a cooperative enterprise
peleus;a king of the myrmidons and father of achilles
legendary creature;unverifiable but popularly accepted as possibly factual
rail;short for railway. 'he traveled by rail' or 'he was concerned with rail safety'
empire;a group of companies run as a single organization
fraternity;a social club for male undergraduates
target company;a company that has been chosen as attractive for takeover by a potential acquirer
entente cordiale;an informal alliance between countries
navy;an organization of military naval forces
lending institution;a financial institution that makes loans
political unit;a unit with political responsibilities
manticore;a mythical monster having the head of man (with horns) and the body of a lion and the tail of a scorpion
section;a small team of policemen working as part of a police platoon
sales division;the division of a business that is responsible for selling
union;a political unit formed from previously independent people or organizations. 'the soviet union'
commonwealth of independent states;an alliance made up of states that had been soviet socialist republics in the soviet union prior to its dissolution in dec 1991
board of regents;a committee of university officers who have general supervision over the welfare and conduct of students
united states secret service;a bureau of the treasury department responsible for intelligence operations
conservative party;a political party in great britain which developed from the tories in the 1830s. advocates a mixed economy and encourages property owning
python;(greek mythology) dragon killed by apollo at delphi
provost guard;a detachment under the command of a provost marshall
cog railway;for steep mountains. a cogwheel on the locomotive engages cogs on a center rail to provide traction
alinement;an organization of people (or countries) involved in a pact or treaty
ymir;(norse mythology) the primeval giant slain by odin and his brothers and from whose body they created the world: the sea from his blood. the earth from his flesh. the mountains from his bones. the sky from his skull
central bank;a government monetary authority that issues currency and regulates the supply of credit and holds the reserves of other banks and sells new issues of securities for the government
steel industry;the industry that makes steel and steel products
house;a social unit living together. 'he moved his family to virginia'. 'it was a good christian household'. 'i waited until the whole house was asleep'. 'the teacher asked how many people made up his home'
savings bank;a thrift institution in the ne us. since deregulation in the 1980s they offer services competitive with many commercial banks
raskolnikov;a fictional character in dostoevsky's novel 'crime and punishment'. he kills old women because he believes he is beyond the bounds of good or evil
episcopal church;autonomous branch. scotland
open end fund;a regulated investment company that regularly sells and redeems its shares
uncle sam;a personification of the us government
sisyphus;(greek legend) a king in ancient greece who offended zeus and whose punishment was to roll a huge boulder to the top of a steep hill. each time the boulder neared the top it rolled back down and sisyphus was forced to start again
federation of tribes;a federation (as of american indians)
social democratic party;a political party in germany and britain (and elsewhere) founded in late 19th century. originally marxist. now advocates the gradual transformation of capitalism into democratic socialism
day watch;workers who work during the day (as 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
banking industry;banks collectively
parochial school;a private school run by a religious body
finance company;a financial institution (often affiliated with a holding company or manufacturer) that makes loans to individuals or businesses
fire company;a private or temporary organization of individuals equipped to fight fires
power service;a public utility that provides electricity
territorial army;british unit of nonprofessional soldiers organized for defense of gb
fund;a financial institution that sells shares to individuals and invests in securities issued by other companies
missionary station;an organization of missionaries in a foreign land sent to carry on religious work
foster home;a household in which an orphaned or delinquent child is placed (usually by a social-service agency)
scylla;(greek mythology) a sea nymph transformed into a sea monster who lived on one side of a narrow strait. drowned and devoured sailors who tried to escape charybdis (a whirlpool) on the other side of the strait
working group;a group of people working together temporarily until some goal is achieved
greek orthodox church;state church of greece. an autonomous part of the eastern orthodox church
gop;the younger of 2 major political parties in the us. gop stands for grand old party
typhon;(greek mythology) one of the whirlwinds. son of typhoeus and echidna. father of cerberus and the chimera and the sphinx
securities industry;the securities markets in the aggregate. 'the market always frustates the small investor'
nursery school;a small preschool for small children
department of health and human services;the federal department that administers all federal programs dealing with health and welfare. created in 1979
reed section;the section of a band or orchestra that plays reed instruments
faustus;an alchemist of german legend who sol his soul to the devil in exchange for knowledge
commercial bank;a financial institution that accepts demand deposits and makes loans and provides other services for the public
government in exile;a temporary government moved to or formed in a foreign land by exiles who hope to rule when their country is liberated
section gang;a work crew assigned to a section of a railroad
agent bank;a bank named by a multi-bank lending syndicate to protect their interests
sicilian mafia;a secret terrorist group in sicily. originally opposed tyranny but evolved into a criminal organization in the middle of the 19th century
jotun;(norse mythology) one of a race of giants often in conflict with the aesir
tantrism;movement within buddhism combining elements of hinduism and paganism
host;archaic terms for army
u.s.;the executive and legislative and judicial branches of the federal government of the us
houri;(in muslim belief) one of the dark-eyed virgins of perfect beauty believed to live with the blessed in paradise
security force;a privately employed group hired to protect the security of a business or industry
ensemble;a group of musicians playing or singing together. 'a string ensemble'
crew;the team of men manning a racing shell
security council;a permanent council of the united nations. responsible for preserving world peace
federal department;a department of the federal government
gas company;a public utility that provides gas
secretarial school;a school where secretarial skills (typing and shorthand and filing etc) are taught
toy industry;an industry that manufactures and sells toys for children
muslimism;muslims collectively and their civilization. based on a monotheistic religion believing that mohammed was the last and major prophet of god. 'the term mohammedanism is offensive to muslims'
federal party;a major political party in the us in the early 19th century. founded by alexander hamilton. favored a strong centralized government
fire brigade;british name for a fire department
open shop;a company whose workers are hired without regard to their membership in a labor union
international labor organization;the united nations agency concerned with the interests of labor
discount chain;a chain of discount stores
merchant marine;the crew of a merchant vessel
commercial agency;an organization that provides businesses with credit ratings of other firms. 'dun & bradstreet is the largest mercantile agency in the united states'
rock band;a band of musicians who play rock-'n'-roll music
myrmidon;(greek mythology) a member of the warriors who followed achilles on the expedition against troy
lyceum;a school for students intermediate between elementary school and college. usually grades 9 to 12
church;a group of christians. any group professing christian doctrine or belief. 'church is a biblical term for assembly'
zen buddhism;school of mahayana buddhism asserting that enlightenment can come through meditation and intuition rather than faith. china and japan
removal company;a company that moves the possessions of a family or business from one site to another
city desk;the editorial department of a newspaper that edits the local news
power;a state powerful enough to influence events throughout the world
judaism;jews who practice a religion based on the old testament and the talmud
alcoholics anonymous;an international organization that provides a support group for persons trying to overcome alcoholism
wayland the smith;(european mythology) a supernatural smith and king of the elves. identified with norse volund
chain gang;a gang of convicts chained together
employment agency;an agency that finds people to fill particular jobs or finds jobs for unemployed people
munitions industry;an industry that manufacturers weapons of war
picket;a detachment of troops guarding an army from surprise attack
steering committee;a committee to arrange the order of business for some larger (legislative) body
home loan bank;one of 11 regional banks that monitor and make short-term credit advances to thrift institutions in their region
business organization;a commercial or industrial enterprise and the people who constitute it. 'he bought his brother's business'. 'a small mom-and-pop business'. 'a racially integrated business concern'
institute;an association organized to promote art or science or education
shiah;one of the two main branches of orthodox islam. mainly in iran
rank;the ordinary members of an organization (such as the soldiers excluding the officers of an army). 'the strike was supported by the union rank and file'. 'he rose from the ranks to become a colonel'
roman catholic church;the christian church based in the vatican and presided over by a pope and an episcopal hierarchy
abominable snowman;large hairy humanoid creature said to live in the himalayas
united nations;an organization of independent states to promote international peace and security
youth gang;a gang whose members are teenagers
sports desk;the editorial department of a newspaper that edits the sports news
presidium;a permanent executive committee in socialist countries that has all the powers of some larger legislative body and that acts for it when it is not in session
ship s company;crew of a ship including the officers. the whole force or personnel of a ship
religious school;a private school run by a religious body
personnel department;the division of a business responsible for hiring employees
laocoon;(greek mythology) the priest of apollo who warned the trojans to beware of greeks bearing gifts when they wanted to accept the trojan horse. a god who favored the greeks (poseidon or athena) sent snakes who coiled around laocoon and his two twin sons killing them
council;a body serving in an administrative capacity. 'student council'
golf club;a club of people to play golf
training school;a school providing practical vocational and technical training
roller coaster;a railway in an amusement park (usually with sharp curves and steep inclines)
league;an association of states or organizations or individuals for common action
military reserve;armed forces that are not on active duty but can be called in an emergency
college;an institution of higher education created to educate and grant degrees. often a part of a university
office;an administrative unit of government. 'the central intelligence agency'. 'the census bureau'. 'office of management and budget'. 'tennessee valley authority'
buddhism;the religion venerating buddha represented by many groups especially in asia
department of veterans affairs;the federal department responsible for the interests of military veterans. created in 1989
partnership;the members of a business venture created by contract
western church;the christian church based in the vatican and presided over by a pope and an episcopal hierarchy
detective agency;an agency that makes inquiries for its clients
commonwealth of nations;an association of nations consisting of the united kingdom and its dependencies and many former british colonies that are now sovereign states but owe allegiance to the british crown
credit union;a cooperative depository financial institution whose members can obtain loans from their combined savings
defense department;the federal department responsible for safeguarding national security. created in 1947
arminian church;the protestant denomination adhering to the views of jacobus arminius
organization;"a group of people who work together"
fha;the federal agency that insures residential mortgages
computer industry;a manufacturer of computers
stheno;(greek mythology) one of the three gorgons
merchant bank;a credit card processing bank. merchants receive credit for credit card receipts less a processing fee
bureau of alcohol tobacco and firearms;the agency of the treasury department that administers federal laws concerning alcohol and tobacco and firearms
growth industry;an industry that is growing rapidly
concert band;a group of musicians playing brass and woodwind and percussion instruments
united nations secretariat;the administrative arm of the united nations
psyche;(greek mythology) a beautiful princess loved by cupid who visited her at night and told her she must not try to see him. became the personification of the soul
coalition;an organization of people (or countries) involved in a pact or treaty
computer dealer;a firm that sells and buys computers
fhlmc;a corporation authorized by congress to provide a secondary market for residential mortgages
maffia;a secret terrorist group in sicily. originally opposed tyranny but evolved into a criminal organization in the middle of the 19th century
benelux;a customs union comprising belgium and netherlands and luxembourg
turnverein;a club of tumblers or gymnasts
appeal board;a board of officials that are not judicial but are appointed to hear appeals
restaurant chain;a chain of restaurants
department of history;the academic department responsible for teaching history
dragon;a creature of teutonic mythology. usually represented as breathing fire and having a reptilian body and sometimes wings
apparel industry;a maker and seller of fashionable clothing
perseus;(greek mythology) son of zeus and dana who slew the gorgon medusa (with the help of athena and hermes) and rescued andromeda from a sea monster
politburo;the chief executive and political committee of the communist party
athenaeum;a literary or scientific association for the promotion of learning
fleet;a group of steamships operating together under the same ownership
spirit;the vital principle or animating force within living things
fate;"the ultimate agency that predetermines the course of events (often personified as a woman). 'we are helpless in the face of destiny'"
clarinet section;the section of a band or orchestra that plays clarinets
international society for krishna consciousness;a society founded in the us in 1966. based on vedic scriptures. groups engage in joyful chanting of 'hare krishna' ('o krishna!')
chess club;a club of people to play chess
cavalry;troops trained to fight on horseback: '500 horse led the attack'
union shop;a company allowed to hire nonunion workers on the condition that they will join the union within a specified time
board;a committee having supervisory powers. 'the board has seven members'
manticora;a mythical monster having the head of man (with horns) and the body of a lion and the tail of a scorpion
mahayana;a major school of buddhism teaching social concern and universal salvation. china. japan. tibet. nepal. korea. mongolia
bloc;a group of countries in special alliance
private school;a school established and controlled privately and supported by endowment and tuition
underground;an electric underground railway
crammer;a special school where students are crammed
subcommittee;a subset of committee members organized for a specific purpose
city state;a state consisting of a sovereign city
bureau of the census;the bureau of the commerce department responsible for taking the census
shinto;the native religion and former ethnic cult of japan
established church;the church that is recognized as the official church of a nation
prep school;a private secondary school
soldiery;soldiers collectively
federalist party;a major political party in the us in the early 19th century. founded by alexander hamilton. favored a strong centralized government
klan;a secret society of white southerners to resist black emancipation
iseult;(medieval legends) the bride of king mark of cornwall who fell in love with the king's nephew (tristan) after they mistakenly drank a love potion that left them eternally in love with each other
closed corporation;a corporation owned by a few people. shares have no public market
methodists;a deriving founded on the principles of john and charles wesley
gorgon;any of three winged sister monsters having live snakes for hair. a glance turns the beholder to stone
rotary club;a group of businessmen in a town organized as a service club and to promote world peace
medusa;(greek mythology) a woman transformed into a gorgon by athena. she was slain by perseus
federal bureau of investigation;the law enforcement agency in the justice department
commerce;the federal department that promotes and administers domestic and foreign trade (including management of the census and the patent office). created in 1913
fashion business;a maker and seller of fashionable clothing
arab league;an international organization of independent arab states formed in 1945 to promote cultural and economic and military and political and social cooperation
eumenides;(classical mythology) the hideous snake-haired monsters (usually three in number) who pursued unpunished criminals
department of defense;the federal department responsible for safeguarding national security. created in 1947
wyvern;a fire-breathing dragon used in medieval heraldry. had the head of a dragon and the tail of a snake and a body with wings and two legs
securities firm;a stock broker's business. charges a fee to act as intermediary between buyer and seller
commission on narcotic drugs;the commission of the economic and social council of the united nations that is concerned with drug traffic
firing party;a squad formed to fire volleys at a military funeral or to carry out a military execution
ogre;(folklore) a giant who likes to eat human beings
advertising department;the division of a business that is responsible for advertising
cis;an alliance made up of states that had been soviet socialist republics in the soviet union prior to its dissolution in dec 1991
ground crew;the crew of technicians and mechanics who service aircraft on the ground
gang;an association of criminals. 'police tried to break up the gang'. 'a pack of thieves'
business;a commercial or industrial enterprise and the people who constitute it. 'he bought his brother's business'. 'a small mom-and-pop business'. 'a racially integrated business concern'
state bank;a bank chartered by a state rather than by the federal government
military academy;an academy for training military officers
quai d orsay;the french department in charge of foreign affairs. referred to familiarly by its address in paris
