motorman;the operator of streetcar
elevator girl;a girl employed to operate an elevator
engine driver;the operator of a railway locomotive
operator;"an agent that operates some apparatus or machine. 'the operator of the switchboard'"
producer;"something that produces. 'maine is a leading producer of potatoes' or 'this microorganism is a producer of disease'"
trucker;someone who drives a truck as an occupation
back;the position of a player on a football team who is stationed behind the line of scrimmage
telephone operator;someone who helps callers get the person they are calling
force;"a group of people having the power of effective action. 'he joined forces with a band of adventurers'"
switchboard operator;someone who helps callers get the person they are calling
switchman;a man who operates railroad switches
roadhog;a driver who obstructs others
elevator operator;an operator of an elevator
designated driver;the member of a party who is designated to refrain from alcohol and so is sober when it is time to drive home
telegrapher;someone who transmits messages by telegraph
center;the position on a hockey team of the player who participates in the face off at the beginning of the game
first;the fielding position of the player on a baseball team who is stationed at first base
role;"normal or customary activity. 'what is your role on the team?'"
plate;the position on a baseball team of the player who is stationed behind home plate and who catches the balls that the pitcher throws. 'a catcher needs a lot of protective equipment'. 'he plays behind the plate'
mid off;the fielding position in cricket closest to the bowler on the off side
cleanup spot;(baseball) the fourth position in the batting order (usually filled by the best batter on the team)
liftman;a man employed to operate and elevator. 'in england they call an elevator man a liftman'
cabdriver;someone who drives a taxi for a living
left field;the fielding position of the player on a baseball team who is expected to field balls in the left third of the outfield (looking from home plate)
chauffeuse;a woman chauffeur
catcher;the position on a baseball team of the player who is stationed behind home plate and who catches the balls that the pitcher throws. 'a catcher needs a lot of protective equipment'. 'he plays behind the plate'
second;the fielding position of the player on a baseball team who is stationed near 2nd base
lineman;the position of a player on a football team who is stationed on the line of scrimmage
center field;the fielding position of the player on a baseball team who is expected to field balls in the central third of the outfield
end;a position on the line of scrimmage. 'no one wanted to play end'
owner driver;a motorist who owns the car that he/she drives
field general;the position of the football player in the backfield who directs the offensive play of his team. 'quarterback is the most important position on the team'
right field;the fielding position of the player on a baseball team who is expected to field balls in the right third of the outfield (looking from home plate)
elevator boy;a man employed to operate and elevator. 'in england they call an elevator man a liftman'
guard;a position on the line of scrimmage. 'guards must be good blockers'
first base;the fielding position of the player on a baseball team who is stationed at first base
cleanup;(baseball) the fourth position in the batting order (usually filled by the best batter on the team)
driver;the operator of a motor vehicle
motorist;someone who drives (or travels in) an automobile
center;a position on a basketball team of the player who participates in the center jump to start the game
taximan;someone who drives a taxi for a living
mid on;the fielding position in cricket closest to the bowler on the on side
quarterback;the position of the football player in the backfield who directs the offensive play of his team. 'quarterback is the most important position on the team'
guard;a position on a basketball team
telegraphist;someone who transmits messages by telegraph
speed demon;a driver who exceeds the safe speed limit
tackle;a position on the line of scrimmage. 'it takes a big man to play tackle'
power;"one possessing or exercising power or influence or authority: 'the mysterious presence of an evil power'. 'may the force be with you'. 'the forces of evil'"
pitcher;the position on a baseball team of the player who throws the ball for a batter to try to hit. 'he has played every position except pitcher'. 'they have a southpaw on the mound'
short;the fielding position of the player on a baseball team who is stationed between 2nd and 3rd base
teamster;someone who drives a truck as an occupation
road hog;a driver who obstructs others
shortstop;the fielding position of the player on a baseball team who is stationed between 2nd and 3rd base
telephonist;someone who helps callers get the person they are calling
automobilist;someone who drives (or travels in) an automobile
forward;a position on a basketball team
bus driver;someone who drives a bus
wingback;the position of the offensive back who lines up behind or outside the end
deus ex machina;"any active agent who appears unexpectedly to solve and insoluble difficulty"
mound;the position on a baseball team of the player who throws the ball for a batter to try to hit. 'he has played every position except pitcher'. 'they have a southpaw on the mound'
chauffeur;a man paid to drive a privately owned car
manipulator;"an agent that operates some apparatus or machine. 'the operator of the switchboard'"
center;the position of the player on the line of scrimmage who puts the ball in play. 'it is a center's responsibility to get the football to the quarterback'
position;(in team sports) the role assigned to an individual player. 'what position does he play?'
railroad engineer;the operator of a railway locomotive
telegraph operator;someone who transmits messages by telegraph
speeder;a driver who exceeds the safe speed limit
tailback;the position of the offensive back on a football team who lines up farthest from the line of scrimmage
busman;someone who drives a bus
company operator;an operator who works for a company
signal caller;the position of the football player in the backfield who directs the offensive play of his team. 'quarterback is the most important position on the team'
hackdriver;someone who drives a taxi for a living
influence;one having power to influence another: 'she was the most important influence in my life'. 'he was a bad influence on the chldren'
halfback;the position of a back on a football team
truck driver;someone who drives a truck as an occupation
second base;the fielding position of the player on a baseball team who is stationed near 2nd base
cabby;someone who drives a taxi for a living
engineer;the operator of a railway locomotive
third;the fielding position of the player on a baseball team who is stationed near 3rd base. 'he is playing third'
cabman;someone who drives a taxi for a living
moloch;a tyrannical power to be propitiated by human subservience or sacrifice: 'the great moloch of war'. 'duty has become the moloch of modern life'- norman douglas
cleanup position;(baseball) the fourth position in the batting order (usually filled by the best batter on the team)
third base;the fielding position of the player on a baseball team who is stationed near 3rd base. 'he is playing third'
taxidriver;someone who drives a taxi for a living
elevator man;a man employed to operate and elevator. 'in england they call an elevator man a liftman'
force;"one possessing or exercising power or influence or authority: 'the mysterious presence of an evil power'. 'may the force be with you'. 'the forces of evil'"
juggernaut;a massive inexorable force that seems to crush everything in its way
