mayeng;indian tree having fragrant nocturnal white flowers and yielding a reddish wood used for planking. often grown as an ornamental or shade tree
fly;two-winged insects characterized by active flight
dory;marine fishes widely distributed in mid-waters and deep slope waters
anemone canadensis;common summer-flowering woodland herb of labrador to colorado
arethusa;any of several bog orchids of the genus arethusa having 1 or 2 showy flowers
little auk;small short-billed auk abundant in arctic regions
physalis pruinosa;stout hairy annual of eastern north america with sweet yellow fruits
false garlic;pungent old world wild onion
stirk;yearling heifer or bullock
redfish;large edible fish found off coast of united states from massachusetts to mexico
wood pewee;small olive-colored woodland flycatchers of eastern north america
turbojet engine;a turbine drives air to the burner
aster linarifolius;wiry tufted perennial of the eastern united states with stiff erect rough stems, linear leaves and large violet flowers
genlisea;rootless carnivorous swamp plants having at the base of the stem a rosette of foliage and trap-leaves consisting of slender tubes swollen in the middle. each tube passes into two long spirally twisted arms with stiff hairs
hypericum perforatum;yellow-flowered perennial common in fields and waste places but a weed in rangelands
kali;bushy plant of old world salt marshes and sea beaches having prickly leaves. burned to produce a crude soda ash
lace bug;small bug having body and wings covered with a lacy network of raised lines
onchorynchus nerka;small red-fleshed salmon of rivers and tributaries of the north pacific valued as food. adults die after spawning
clematis tangutica;chinese clematis with serrate leaves and large yellow flowers
umbellifer;any of numerous aromatic herbs of the family umbelliferae
knobcone pine;medium-sized 3-needled pine of united states pacific coast having a prominent knob on each scale of the cone
snowshoe hare;large large-footed north american hare. white in winter
oriental plane;large tree of southeastern europe to asia minor
ascidian;minute sedentary marine invertebrate having a saclike body with siphons through which water enters and leaves
fagus sylvatica;large european beech with minutely-toothed leaves. widely planted as an ornamental in north america
ranunculus lyalii;showy white-flowered perennial of new zealand
ruddles;the common european annual marigold
ceratopsian;any of several four-footed herbivorous horned dinosaurs with enormous beaked skulls. of the late cretaceous in north america and mongolia
savory;any of several aromatic herbs or subshrubs of the genus satureja having spikes of flowers attractive to bees
tephrosia purpurea;east indian shrub
pinniped;aquatic carnivorous mammal having a streamlined body specialized for swimming with limbs modified as flippers
dark eyed junco;common north american junco having gray plumage and eyes with dark brown irises
yellow bachelor s button;bog plant of pine barrens of southeastern united states having spikes of irregular yellow-orange flowers
durability;permanence by virtue of the power to resist stress or force. 'they advertised the durability of their products'
kentucky bluegrass;valuable meadow and pasture grass in europe and especially central united states having tall stalks and slender bright green leaves. a chief constituent in lawn grass mixtures
petty morel;unarmed woody rhizomatous perennial plant distinguished from wild sarsaparilla by more aromatic roots and panicled umbels. southeastern north america to mexico
euphorbia cyparissias;old world perennial having cypress-like foliage naturalized as a weed in united states
woodchuck;reddish_brown north american marmot
white ash;small to medium-sized tree of australia and tasmania having smooth white to light-grey bark shedding in patches or strips
calamintha nepeta glantulosa;low-growing strongly aromatic perennial herb of southern europe to gb naturalized in united states
false gromwell;any of several north american perennial herbs with hairy foliage and small yellowish or greenish flowers
dermacentor variabilis;common tick that can transmit rocky mountain spotted fever and tularemia
dahlia pinnata;any of several plants of or developed from the species dahlia pinnata having tuberous roots and showy rayed variously colored flower heads. native to the mountains of mexico and central america and colombia
snow in summer;annual spurge of western united states having showy white-bracted flower clusters and very poisonous milk
bleeding heart;garden plant having deep-pink drooping heart-shaped flowers
northern mammoth;very hairy mammoth common in colder portions of the northern hemisphere
paris daisy;perennial subshrub of the canary islands having usually pale yellow daisylike flowers. often included in genus chrysanthemum
shaft louse;parasitic on poultry
medicinal leech;large european freshwater leech formerly used for bloodletting
cassava;any of several plants of the genus manihot having fleshy roots yielding a nutritious starch
engelmann s spruce;tall spruce of rocky mountains and british columbia with blue-green needles and acutely conic crown. wood used for rough lumber and boxes
psettichthys melanostichus;common flatfish of north american pacific coast
sobralia;any of various showy orchids of the genus sobralia having leafy stems and bright-colored solitary or racemose flowers similar to those of genus cattleya
marginal wood fern;north american fern with evergreen fronds
sea mat;sessile aquatic animal forming mosslike colonies of small polyps each having a curved or circular ridge bearing tentacles. attach to stones or seaweed and reproduce by budding
tineola bisselliella;moth that forms a web in which it lives
cro magnon;extinct human of upper paleolithic in europe
kaki;blackish stilt of new zealand sometimes considered a color phase of the white-headed stilt
english violet;european violet typically having purple to white flowers. widely naturalized
pteropogon;southern australian plant having feathery hairs surrounding the fruit
personal computer;a small computer based on a microprocessor
cow cockle;european annual with pale rose-colored flowers. cultivated flower or self-sown grainfield weed. introduced in north america. sometimes classified as a soapwort
cress plant;any of various plants of the family cruciferae having edible pungent-tasting leaves
webbing clothes moth;moth that forms a web in which it lives
tulipa armena;small early-blooming tulip
arisaema atrorubens;common american spring-flowering woodland herb having sheathing leaves and an upright club-shaped spadix with overarching green and purple spathe producing scarlet berries
bouteloua gracilis;of western north america
entoproct;any of various mosslike aquatic animals usually forming branching colonies. each polyp having a both mouth and anus within a closed ring of tentacles
oystercatcher;black-and-white shorebird with stout legs and bill. feed on oysters etc.
fumewort;delicate european herb with grayish leaves and spikes of purplish flowers. formerly used medicinally
seashore mallow;any of various plants of the genus kosteletzya predominantly of coastal habitats. grown for their hibuscuslike flowers
aplacophoran;deep-water wormlike mollusks lacking calcareous plates on the body but having fine slimy spicules on the covering mantle
tiger shark;large dangerous warm-water shark with striped or spotted body
clivers;annual having the stem beset with curved prickles. north america and europe and asia
solea solea;highly valued as food
arbutus unedo;small evergreen european shrubby tree bearing many-seeded scarlet berries that are edible but bland. of ireland, southern europe, asia minor
adjutant bird;large indian stork with a military gait
oviraptorid;advanced carnivorous theropod
veronica anagallis aquatica;plant of wet places in eurasia and america
burmese rosewood;tree of india and burma yielding a wood resembling mahogany
prunus ilicifolia;california evergreen wild plum with spiny leathery leaves and white flowers
coconut tree;tall palm tree bearing coconuts as fruits. widely planted throughout the tropics
balm of gilead;medium-sized fir of northeastern north america. leaves smell of balsam when crushed. much used for pulpwood and christmas trees
hog badger;se asian badger with a snout like a pig
surinam toad;south american toad. incubates its young in pits in the skin of its back
moreton bay chestnut;australian tree having pinnate leaves and orange-yellow flowers followed by large woody pods containing 3 or 4 seeds that resemble chestnuts. yields dark strong wood
calycanthus floridus;hardy shrub of southeastern united states having clove-scented wood and fragrant red-brown flowers
money cowrie;cowrie whose shell is used for money in parts of south pacific and africa
field pussytoes;a variety of pussytoes
teletypewriter;a printing telegraph that operates like a typewriter
wood stork;old world wood ibis
sauce alone;european herb that smells like garlic
giant petrel;large brownish petrel chiefly of antarctic seas
amsinckia grandiflora;annual of the western united states having large coiled flower spikes. a threatened species
atlas moth;giant saturniid moth widespread in asia. sometimes cultured for silk
spotted cowbane;tall biennial water hemlock of northeastern north america having purple-spotted stems and clusters of extremely poisonous tuberous roots resembling small sweet potatoes
changelessness;the property of remaining unchanged
moorberry;an evergreen shrub with leathery leaves
sea fan;corals having a treelike or fan-shaped horny skeleton
amberbell;eastern north american dogtooth having solitary yellow flowers marked with brown or purple and spotted interiors
vegetable;any of various herbaceous plants cultivated for an edible part such as the fruit or the root of the beet or the leaf of spinach or the seeds of bean plants or the flower buds of broccoli or cauliflower
succory;perennial old world herb having rayed flower heads with blue florets cultivated for its root and its heads of crisp edible leaves used in salads
prumnopitys elegans;south american evergreen tree or shrub
asian black grouse;of w. asia
rusty rig;australian tree resembling the banyan often planted for ornament. introduced into south africa for brushwood
shorthorn;english breed of short-horned cattle
american egret;the common american egret. a variety of the old world casmerodius albus
rook;common gregarious old world bird about the size and color of the american crow
silvertip;powerful brownish-yellow bear of the uplands of western north america
ringdove;grayish old world turtledove with a black band around the neck. often caged
appendicularia;free-swimming tadpole-shaped pelagic tunicate resembling larvae of other tunicates
coral necklace;glabrous annual with slender taproot and clusters of white flowers. western europe especially western mediterranean and atlantic coastal areas
portulaca;a plant of the genus portulaca having pink or red or purple or white ephemeral flowers
hypericum virginianum;perennial marsh herb with pink to mauve flowers. southeastern united states
lepiota americana;an agaric with a pallid cap and a stalk that is enlarged near the base
nepeta hederaceae;trailing european aromatic plant of the mint family having rounded leaves and small purplish flowers often grown in hanging baskets. naturalized in north america. sometimes placed in genus nepeta
stegosaur stenops;herbivorous ornithischian dinosaur with a row of bony plates along its back and a spiked tail probably used as a weapon
cottage pink;european pink cultivated for its very fragrant pink or rosy flowers
spanish gorse;erect shrub of southwestern europe having racemes of golden yellow flowers
litocranius walleri;slender east african antelope with slim neck and backward-curving horns
mediterranean anchovy;esteemed for its flavor. usually preserved or used for sauces and relishes
rockcress;noxious cress with yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus sisymbrium
garlic mustard;european herb that smells like garlic
american arborvitae;small evergreen of eastern north america having tiny scalelike leaves on flattened branchlets
sickleweed golden aster;a variety of golden aster
cabbage palm;australian palm with leaf buds that are edible when young
showy orchis;north american orchid having a spike of violet-purple flowers mixed with white. sepals and petals form a hood
spirea;any rosaceous plant of the genus spiraea. has sprays of small white or pink flowers
beta vulgaris;biennial eurasian plant usually having a swollen edible root. widely cultivated as a food crop
portulaca oleracea;weedy trailing mat-forming herb with bright yellow flowers cultivated for its edible mildly acid leaves eaten raw or cooked especially in indian and greek and middle eastern cuisine. cosmopolitan
prairie smoke;north american perennial with hairy basal pinnate leaves and purple flowers and plume-tipped fruits
stonefly;primitive winged insect with a flattened body. used as bait by fishermen. aquatic gilled larvae are carnivorous and live beneath stones
red lauan tree;valuable philippine timber tree
pelargonium odoratissimum;geranium with round fragrant leaves and small white flowers
sand verbena;any of various plants of the genus abronia of western north america and mexico having flowers resembling verbena
bulnesia sarmienti;south american tree of dry interior regions of argentina and paraguay having resinous heartwood used for incense
everlastingness;the property of lasting forever
parsely leaved thorn;southern united states hawthorn with pinnately lobed leaves
insectivore;small insect-eating mainly nocturnal terrestrial or fossorial mammals
tall yellow eye;of australia
european bog asphodel;of western europe: scandinavia to northern spain and portugal
brome;any of various woodland and meadow grasses of the genus bromus. native to temperate regions
twinberry;creeping woody plant of eastern north america with shiny evergreen leaves and scarlet berries
bladderpod;annual or perennial herbs with inflated seed pods. some placed in genus lesquerella
ramona;shrubby plant with aromatic grayish-green leaves used as a cooking herb
reticulitermes lucifugus;destructive european termite
grape louse;destructive to various grape plants
indian salad;showy perennial herb with white flowers. leaves sometimes used as edible greens in southeastern united states
orange fleabane;mat-forming herb of turkestan with nearly double orange-yellow flowers
catharacta skua;large brown skua of the north atlantic
sweet sultan;annual of mediterranean to portugal having hairy stems and minutely spiny-toothed leaves and large heads of yellow flowers
phalarope;small sandpiper-like shorebird having lobate toes and being good swimmers. breed in the arctic and winter in the tropics
sage willow;north american shrub with whitish canescent leaves
caper spurge;poisonous old world spurge. adventive in america. seeds yield a purgative oil
leatherleaf fern;widely distributed fern of tropical southern hemisphere having leathery pinnatifid fronds
german shepherd dog;breed of large shepherd dogs used in police work and as a guide for the blind
sagebrush;any of several north american composite subshrubs of the genera artemis or seriphidium
chardonnay;white wine grape
cakile maritima;salt-tolerant seashore annual grown for its fragrant rose or violet flowers and fleshy gray-green foliage
bush willow;small south african tree having creamy yellow fragrant flowers usually growing on stream banks
baccharis pilularis;widely spreading evergreen shrub of southwestern united states with flower heads in a leafy panicle
quercitron;medium to large deciduous timber tree of the eastern united states and southeastern canada having dark outer bark and yellow inner bark used for tanning. broad 5-lobed leaves are bristle-tipped
gloriosa superba;any plant of the genus gloriosa of tropical africa and asia. a perennial herb climbing by means of tendrils at leaf tips having showy yellow to red or purple flowers. all parts are poisonous
wild apple;any of numerous wild apple trees usually with small acid fruit
varying hare;large large-footed north american hare. white in winter
lynx lynx;of northern eurasia
arrow wood;closely related to southern arrow wood. the eastern united states maine to ohio and georgia
southern buckthorn;shrubby thorny deciduous tree of southeastern united states with white flowers and small black drupaceous fruit
multiplier onion;type of onion plant producing small clustered mild-flavored bulbs used as seasoning
krigia;any small branched yellow-flowered north american herb of the genus krigia
eastern fence lizard;small active lizard of united states and north to british columbia
reedbird;small european warbler that breeds among reeds and wedges and winters in africa
angel s trumpet;south american plant cultivated for its very large nocturnally fragrant trumpet-shaped flowers
stropharia rugoso annulata;a large gilled fungus with a broad cap and a long stalk. the cap is dark brown. the white gills turn dark purplish brown with age. edible and choice
orites excelsa;australian tree having alternate simple leaves (when young they are pinnate with prickly toothed margins) and slender axillary spikes of white flowers
jackknife clam;marine clam having a long narrow curved thin shell
woodwardia virginica;north american fern
bemisia tabaci;a strain accidentally imported into florida from the middle east then spread to california where it is a very serious pest feeding on almost all vegetable crops and poinsettias
tobacco hornworm;large green white-striped hawkmoth larva that feeds on tobacco and related plants. similar to tomato_hornworm
tichodroma muriaria;crimson-and-gray songbird that inhabits town walls and mountain cliffs of southern eurasia and northern africa
chaffinch;small european finch with a cheerful song
xerophyllum tenax;plant of western north america having woody rhizomes and tufts of stiff grasslike basal leaves and spikes of creamy white flowers
spanish iris;bulbous iris of western mediterranean region having usually violet-purple flowers
margay cat;small spotted wildcat found from texas to brazil
anatotitan;one of the largest and most famous duck-billed dinosaurs
asclepias verticillata;milkweed of the eastern united states with narrow leaves in whorls and greenish-white flowers
blacktail prairie dog;tail is black tipped
scorpaenoid fish;fishes having the the head armored with bony plates
pholiota flammans;a fungus with a yellow cap covered with fine scales as is the stalk
oxylebius pictus;greenling with whitish body marked with black bands
mormon cricket;large dark wingless cricket-like katydid of arid parts of western united states
ipomoea orizabensis;tropical american morning glory
sperm whale;large whale with a large cavity in the head containing spermaceti and oil. also a source of ambergris
turakoo;large brightly crested bird of africa
orangutan;large long-armed ape of borneo and sumatra having arboreal habits
false beachdrops;fleshy tawny or reddish saprophytic herb resembling the indian pipe and growing in woodland humus of eastern north america. in some classifications placed in a separate genus hypopitys
woodfrog;wide-ranging light-brown frog of moist north american woodlands esp. spruce
epilobium hirsutum;plant of europe and asia having purplish-red flowers and hairy stems and leaves. introduced into north america
common snapping turtle;large-headed turtle with powerful hooked jaws found in or near water. prone to bite
american rock brake;rock-inhabiting fern of northern north america growing in massive tufts and having parsleylike fronds
brook thistle;of central and southwestern europe
dolichos biflorus;twining herb of old world tropics cultivated in india for food and fodder. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
fly agaric;poisonous (but rarely fatal) woodland fungus having a scarlet cap with white warts and white gills
torrey s pine;medium-sized 5-needled pine of southwestern california having long cylindrical cones
poverty grass;small heathlike plant covered with white down growing on beaches in northeastern north america
hogfish;large wrasse of western atlantic. head of male resembles a pig's snout
hepatica;a common liverwort
biennial;a plant having a life cycle that normally takes two seasons from germination to death to complete. flowering biennials usually bloom and fruit in the second season
bulldog ant;any of the large fierce australian ants of the genus myrmecia
work animal;an animal trained for and used for heavy labor
myroxylon pereirae;tree of south and central america yielding an aromatic balsam
yucca;any of several evergreen plants of the genus yucca having usually tall stout stems and a terminal cluster of white flowers. warmer regions of north america
halesia carolina;medium-sized tree of west virginia to florida and texas
bluefish;bluish warm-water marine food and game fish that follow schools of small fishes into shallow waters
hungarian pointer;hungarian hunting dog resembling the weimaraner but having a rich deep red coat
tall bilberry;high-growing deciduous shrub of eastern north america bearing edible blueish to blackish berries with a distinct bloom. source of most cultivated blueberries
poplar tree;any of numerous trees of north temperate regions having light soft wood and flowers borne in catkins
horny frog;insectivorous lizard with hornlike spines on the head and spiny scales on the body. of western north america
bufo viridis;eurasian toad with variable chiefly green coloring
devil s fig;any plant of the genus argemone having large white or yellow flowers and prickly leaves and stems and pods. chiefly of tropical america
european brooklime;european plant having low-lying stems with blue flowers often pink-flushed. sparsely naturalized in north america
alaska cedar;tall evergreen of north american pacific coast often cultivated for ornament
apios americana;a north american vine with fragrant blossoms and edible tubers. important food crop of native americans
tarweed;any of various western american plants of the genus grindelia having resinous leaves and stems formerly used medicinally. often poisonous to livestock
caragana arborescens;large spiny shrub of eastern asia having clusters of yellow flowers. often cultivated in shelterbelts and hedges
squalus acanthias;destructive dogfish of american and european atlantic coastal waters. widely used in anatomy classes
whistling swan;north american subspecies of tundra swan having a soft whistling note
moccasin flower;once common rose pink woodland orchid of eastern north america
skunk;american musteline mammal typically ejecting an intensely malodorous fluid when startled. in some classifications put in a separate subfamily mephitinae
poll parrot;a tame parrot
reindeer lichen;an erect grayish branching lichen of arctic and even some north temperate regions constituting the chief food for reindeer and caribou and sometimes being eaten by humans
rubus idaeus;the common european raspberry. fruit red or orange
australian sea lion;a variety of sea lion found in australia
gray fox;dark gray american fox. from central america through southern united states
millet;extensively cultivated in europe and asia for its grain and in united states sometimes for forage
cheilanthes lanosa;small north american evergreen fern whose stipes and lower frond surfaces are densely wooly
stitchwort;low-growing north temperate herb having small white star-shaped flowers. named for its alleged ability to ease sharp pains in the side
coffea canephora;native to west africa but grown in java and elsewhere. resistant to coffee rust
leptodactylid;toothed frogs: terrestrial or aquatic or arboreal
agrimony;a plant of the genus agrimony having spikelike clusters of small yellow flowers
carob bean tree;evergreen mediterranean tree with edible pods. the biblical carob
cirsium vulgare;european thistle with rather large heads and prickly leaves. extensively naturalized as a weed in the united states
von neumann machine;any digital computer incorporating the ideas of stored programs and serial counters that were proposed in 1946 by von neumann and his colleagues
sclerotinia;any fungus of the genus sclerotinia. some causing brown rot diseases in plants
frangipani;any of various tropical american deciduous shrubs or trees of the genus plumeriaving milky sap and showy fragrant funnel-shaped variously colored flowers
heloderma horridum;lizard with black and yellowish beadlike scales. of western mexico
marrubium vulgare;european aromatic herb with hairy leaves and numerous white flowers in axillary cymes. leaves yield a bitter extract use medicinally and as flavoring
sawwort;european perennial whose serrate leaves yield a yellow dye
fruit fly;any of numerous small insects whose larvae feed on fruits
electrophorus electric;eel-shaped freshwater fish of south america having electric organs in its body
moa;extinct flightless bird of new zealand
side blotched lizard;one of the most abundant lizards in the arid western united states
rainbow lorikeet;a kind of lorikeet
golden cup;native of mexican highlands grown for its glossy clear yellow flowers and blue-gray finely dissected foliage
teleprinter;a printing telegraph that operates like a typewriter
domestic fowl;a domesticated gallinaceous bird though to be descended from the red jungle fowl
pongamia glabra;evergreen asiatic tree having glossy pinnate leaves and racemose creamy-white scented flowers. used as a shade tree
pinus sylvestris;medium large 2-needled pine of northern europe and asia having flaking red-brown bark
oriental garlic;eastern asian plant. larger than allium_schoenoprasum
chow;breed of thick-coated medium-sized dogs with fluffy curled tails and distinctive blue-black tongues. believed to have originated in north china
anthericum liliago;southern european plant commonly cultivated for its spikes of small starry greenish-white flowers
pinus glabra;large 2-needled pine of southeastern united states with light soft wood
bearberry;deciduous shrub of southeastern and central united states
phragmites communis;tall north american reed having relative wide leaves and large plumelike panicles. widely distributed in moist areas. used for mats, screens and arrow shafts
shanny;european scaleless blenny
orange milkwort;bog plant of pine barrens of southeastern united states having spikes of irregular yellow-orange flowers
pariah dog;ownerless half-wild mongrel dog common around asian villages especially india
shelduck;female sheldrake
penstemon linarioides;plant having small narrow leaves and blue-violet flowers in long open clusters. utah and colorado to new mexico and arizona
spruce pine;small spruce of boggy areas of northeastern north america having spreading branches with dense foliage. inferior wood
rumohra adiantiformis;widely distributed fern of tropical southern hemisphere having leathery pinnatifid fronds
watercress;any of several water-loving cresses
homo habilis;extinct species of upright east african hominid having some advanced humanlike characteristics
star grass;any of several perennials of the genus aletris having grasslike leaves and bitter roots reputed to cure colic
redbug;larval mite that sucks the blood of vertebrates including human beings causing intense irritation
low gallberry holly;an evergreen shrub
western coral snake;ranges from central america to southwestern united states
bunny;(usually informal) especially a young rabbit
margosa;large semi-evergreen tree of east india. trunk exudes a tenacious gum. bitter bark used as a tonic. seeds yield an aromatic oil. sometimes placed in genus melia
spongefly;hairy-bodied insect whose larvae feed on freshwater sponges
cero;large edible mackerel of temperate united states coastal atlantic waters
bear grass;yucca of west central united states having a clump of basal grasslike leaves and a central stalk with a terminal raceme of small whitish flowers
mutinus caninus;a stinkhorn having a stalk without a cap. the slimy gleba is simply plastered on its surface near the apex where winged insects can find it
hydroelectric turbine;a large and efficient version of a water wheel used to drive an electric generator
intermediate host;a host that is used by a parasite in the course of its life cycle
honey fungus;a honey-colored edible mushroom commonly associated with the roots of trees in late summer and fall. do not eat raw
burhinus oedicnemus;large-headed large-eyed crepuscular or nocturnal shorebird of the old world and tropical america having a thickened knee joint
clover;a plant of the genus trifolium
flowering tree;any tree having seeds and ovules contained in the ovary
swamp fly honeysuckle;a variety of fly honeysuckle
condor;largest flying birds in the western hemisphere
vigna aconitifolia;east indian legume having hairy foliage and small yellow flowers followed by cylindrical pods. used especially in india for food and forage and soil-conditioning. sometimes placed in genus phaseolus
nephelium litchi;chinese tree cultivated especially in philippines and india for its edible fruit. sometimes placed in genus nephelium
sparid fish;spiny-finned food fishes of warm waters having well-developed teeth
robusta coffee;native to west africa but grown in java and elsewhere. resistant to coffee rust
black footed albatross;a variety of albatross with black feet
shamrock;eurasian plant with heart-shaped trifoliate leaves and white pink- or purple-veined flowers
dingo;wolflike yellowish-brown wild dog of australia
pitch apple;a common tropical american clusia having solitary white or rose flowers
eriobotrya japonica;evergreen tree of warm regions having fuzzy yellow olive-sized fruit with a large free stone. native to china and japan
phyllitis scolopendrium;eurasian fern with simple lanceolate fronds
sea crawfish;large edible marine crustacean having a spiny carapace but lacking the large pincers of true lobsters
tendrac;small often spiny insectivorous mammal of madagascar. resembles a hedgehog
cichlid;freshwater fishes of tropical america and africa and asia similar to american sunfishes. some are food fishes. many small ones are popular in aquariums
generator;converts mechanical energy into electrical energy by electromagnetic induction
habenaria hookeri;a long-spurred orchid with base leaves and petals converging under the upper sepal
bullock s oriole;western subspecies of northern oriole
northern whiting;whiting of the east coast of united states. closely resembles king whiting
dianthus chinensis;chinese pink with deeply toothed rose-lilac flowers with a purplish eye. usually raised as an annual
ceryle alcyon;grayish-blue north american kingfisher with a chestnut band on its chest
erigonum fasciculatum;low-growing shrub with spreading branches and flowers in loose heads. desert regions of western united states (california to utah)
seriema;argentinian cariama
false indigo;any of several plants of the genus baptisia
bulbous plant;plant growing from a bulb
mule;sterile offspring of a male donkey and a female horse
fumaria fungosa;vine with feathery leaves and white or pinkish flowers. sometimes placed in genus fumaria
capsicum;any of various tropical plants of the genus capsicum bearing peppers
junco;small north american finch seen chiefly in winter
myrtle warbler;similar to audubon's warbler
fumaria officinalis;delicate european herb with grayish leaves and spikes of purplish flowers. formerly used medicinally
gingko;deciduous dioecious chinese tree having fan-shaped leaves and fleshy yellow seeds. exists almost exclusively in cultivation especially as an ornamental street tree
ixodes dammini;a northeastern tick now recognized as same species as ixodes scapularis
prunus padus;small european cherry tree closely resembling the american chokecherry
giant clam;giant clam inhabiting reefs in the south pacific weighing up to 500' pounds
milcher;cattle that are reared for their milk
thysanopterous insect;an insect of the order thysanoptera
jawless fish;eel-shaped vertebrate without jaws or paired appendages including the cyclostomes and some extinct forms
snailflower;perennial tropical american vine cultivated for its racemes of showy yellow and purple flowers having the corolla keel coiled like a snail shell. sometimes placed in genus phaseolus
clitocybe robusta;a large white agaric. edible but not palatable
serrated wrack;brown algae seaweed with serrated edges
quercus laurifolia;large nearly semi-evergreen oak of southeastern united states. thrives in damp soil
pirana;small voraciously carnivorous freshwater fishes of south america that attack and destroy living animals
common buttercup;perennial old world buttercup with golden to sulphur yellow flowers in late spring to early summer. naturalized in north america
bean tree;any of several trees having seedpods as fruits
harpy;any of various fruit bats of the genus nyctimene distinguished by nostrils drawn out into diverging tubes
plectognath fish;tropical marine fishes having the teeth fused into a beak and thick skin covered with bony plates or spines
bog rosemary;wiry evergreen shrub having pendent clusters of white or pink flowers. of wet acidic areas in arctic and canada to northeastern united states
smallmouth black bass;a variety of black bass. the angle of the jaw falls below the eye
dewberry;any of several trailing blackberry brambles especially of north america
sage brush;any of several north american composite subshrubs of the genera artemis or seriphidium
kea;large brownish-green new zealand parrot
bryonia alba;white-flowered vine having thick roots and bearing small black berries. europe to iran
monarch butterfly;large migratory american butterfly having deep orange wings with black and white markings. the larvae feed on milkweed
chinese goose;very large wild goose of northeast asia. interbreeds freely with the graylag
cream colored courser;courser of desert and semidesert regions of the old world
terrapin;any of various edible north american web-footed turtles living in fresh or brackish water
megatherian;a large extinct ground sloth
hypericum prolificum;stiff shrub having oblong entire leaves and dense cymes of yellow flowers
cheilanthes gracillima;small tufted fern of northwestern america
straw mushroom;small tropical and subtropical edible mushroom having a white cap and long stem. an expensive delicacy in china and other asian countries where it is grown commercially
bush tit;active gray titmice of western north america
sea mouse;any of several large worms having a broad flattened body with a mat of coarse hairs covering the back
nardoo;australian clover fern
betula glandulosa;small shrub of colder parts of north america and greenland
pinus ponderosa;common and widely distributed tall timber pine of western north america having dark green needles in bunches of 2 to 5 and thick bark with dark brown plates when mature
blue crab;bluish edible crab of atlantic and gulf coasts of north america
common racoon;north american raccoon
pin tailed duck;long-necked river duck of the old and new worlds having elongated central tail feathers
black haw;deciduous tree of southeastern united states and mexico
dead nettle;foul-smelling perennial eurasiatic herb with a green creeping rhizome
flathead;food fish of the indo-pacific region resembling gurnards
campanula divaricata;bellflower of southeastern united states (maryland to georgia) having pale blue flowers
seed weevil;infests the seeds of legumes
lopholatilus chamaeleonticeps;yellow-spotted violet food fish of warm deep waters
hotei chiku;small bamboo of southeastern china having slender culms flexuous when young
root celery;grown for its thickened edible aromatic root
temple orange;large citrus tree having large sweet deep orange fruit that is easily peeled. widely cultivated in florida
flagroot;perennial marsh plant having swordlike leaves and aromatic roots
fortunella margarita;shrub bearing oval-fruited kumquats
lycopodium alpinum;a variety of clubmoss
camelia;any of several shrubs or small evergreen trees having solitary white or pink or reddish flowers
euphorbia marginata;annual spurge of western united states having showy white-bracted flower clusters and very poisonous milk
aspen poplar;a poplar that is widely cultivated in the united states. has white bark and leaves with whitish undersurfaces
wood duck;showy north american duck that nests in hollow trees
flower of an hour;annual weedy herb with ephemeral yellow purple-eyed flowers. old world tropics. naturalized as a weed in north america
lygaeid bug;a true bug: usually bright-colored. pest of cultivated crops and some fruit trees
golden maidenhair;mat-forming lithophytic or terrestrial fern with creeping rootstocks and large pinnatifid fronds found throughout north america and europe and africa and east asia
egyptian water lily;white egyptian lotus: water lily of egypt to southeastern africa. held sacred by the egyptians
woadwaxen;small eurasian shrub having clusters of yellow flowers that yield a dye. common as weed in england and united states. sometimes grown as an ornamental
carya glabra;an american hickory tree having bitter nuts
stinking goosefoot;european goosefoot with strong-scented foliage. adventive in eastern north america
thrift;any of numerous sun-loving low-growing evergreens of the genus armeria having round heads of pink or white flowers
cabbage tree;australian palm with leaf buds that are edible when young
oval kumquat;shrub bearing oval-fruited kumquats
persimmon;any of several tropical trees of the genus diospyros
lesser rorqual;small finback of coastal waters of atlantic and pacific
devilfish;medium-sized grayish-black whale of the north pacific
hiba arborvitae;slow-growing medium-large japanese evergreen used as an ornamental
spectacled caiman;caiman with bony ridges about the eyes. found from southern mexico to argentina
sharksucker;remoras found attached to sharks
large yellow lady s slipper;plant of eastern and central north america having slightly fragrant purple-marked greenish-yellow flowers
monterey cypress;tall california cypress endemic on monterey bay. widely used for ornament as well as reforestation and shelterbelt planting
odobenus divergens;of the bering sea and north pacific
tamarin;small south american marmoset with silky fur and long nonprehensile tail
gooney;a variety of albatross with black feet
creashak;evergreen mat-forming shrub of north america and northern eurasia having small white flowers and red berries. leaves turn red in autumn
fragrant cliff fern;fern or northern eurasia and north america having fragrant fronds
polyborus cheriway audubonii;widespread from southern united states to central america. rusty black with black-and-white breast and tail
scomberomorus regalis;large edible mackerel of temperate united states coastal atlantic waters
liberian coffee;small tree of west africa
moth;typically crepuscular or nocturnal insect having a stout body and feathery or hairlike antennae
umbrella magnolia;small deciduous open-crowned tree of eastern north america having creamy white flowers and large leaves in umbrellalike formations at ends of branches
nightcrawler;terrestrial worm that burrows into and helps aerate soil. often surfaces when the ground is cool or wet. used as bait by anglers
steam engine;heat is used to raise steam which either turns a turbine or forces a piston to move up and down in a cylinder
ming tree;a dwarfed evergreen conifer or shrub shaped to have flat-topped asymmetrical branches and grown in a container
arnica montana;herb of pasture and open woodland throughout most of europe and western asia having orange-yellow daisylike flower heads that when dried are used as a stimulant and to treat bruises and swellings
trimmer;a machine that trims timber
european nightjar;old world goatsucker
chetah;long-legged spotted cat of africa and southwestern asia having nonretractile claws. the swiftest mammal. can be trained to run down game
rice rat;hardy agile rat of grassy marshes of mexico and the southeastern united states
ceratotherium simum;large light-gray african rhinoceros having two horns. endangered. sometimes placed in genus diceros
monarda;any of various aromatic herbs of the genus monarda
monoplane flying fish;having only pectoral fins enlarged
american feverfew;stout perennial herb of the eastern united states with whitish flowers. leaves traditionally used by catawba indians to treat burns
brown bells;california herb with brownish-purple or greenish bell-shaped flowers
scabiosa arvensis;perennial having bluish-lilac flowers. introduced in the eastern united states
sarracenia purpurea;perennial bog herb having dark red flowers and decumbent broadly winged pitchers forming a rosette. of northeastern north america and naturalized in europe especially ireland
eugenia aromaticum;moderate sized very symmetrical red-flowered evergreen widely cultivated in the tropics for its flower buds which are source of cloves
alstroemeria pelegrina;an andean herb having umbels of showy pinkish-purple lilylike flowers
daphne;any of several ornamental shrubs with shiny mostly evergreen leaves and clusters of small bell-shaped flowers
greenbrier;a very prickly woody vine of the eastern united states growing in tangled masses having tough round stems with shiny leathery leaves and small greenish flowers followed by clusters of inedible shiny black berries
butterfly;diurnal insect typically having a slender body with knobbed antennae and broad colorful wings
psilophyte;any plant of the order psilophytales: a savannah plant
superbug;a strain accidentally imported into florida from the middle east then spread to california where it is a very serious pest feeding on almost all vegetable crops and poinsettias
thistle;any of numerous plants of the family_compositae and especially of the genera carduus and cirsium and onopordum having prickly-edged leaves
staphylococcus;spherical gram-positive parasitic bacteria that tend to form irregular colonies. some cause boils or septicemia or infections
box turtle;chiefly terrestrial turtle of north america. shell can be closed tightly
carabid beetle;predacious shining black or metallic terrestrial beetle that destroys many injurious insects
pallid bat;drab yellowish big-eared cave-dwelling bat
spirochaete;parasitic or free-living bacteria. many pathogenic to humans and other animals
wild cherry;an uncultivated cherry tree
carolina buckthorn;deciduous shrub of eastern and central united states having black berrylike fruit. golden-yellow in autumn
crotalus tigris;having irregularly cross-banded back. of arid foothills and canyons of southern arizona and mexico
stilt plover;long-legged three-toed black-and-white wading bird of inland ponds and marshes or brackish lagoons
muscari comosum;large beautiful mediterranean species having sterile bluish-violet flowers with fringed corollas forming a tuft above the fertile flowers
chamois;hoofed mammal of mountains of eurasia having upright horns with backward-hooked tips
creeping bentgrass;common pasture or lawn grass spread by long runners
polygala vulgaris;small european perennial with numerous branches having racemes of blue, pink or white flowers. formerly reputed to promote human lactation
european honeysuckle;cultivated eurasian shrub with twin yellowish-white flowers and scarlet fruit
mountain partridge;california partridge. slightly larger than the california quail
ranunculus occidentalis;perennial of western north america
ragweed;any of numerous chiefly north american weedy plants constituting the genus ambrosia that produce highly allergenic pollen responsible for much hay fever and asthma
nipa fruticans;any creeping semiaquatic feather palm of the genus nipa found in mangrove swamps and tidal estuaries. its sap is used for a liquor. leaves are used for thatch. fruit has edible seeds
little egret;old world egret
saber toothed tiger;any of many extinct cats of the old and new worlds having long swordlike upper canine teeth. from the oligocene through the pleistocene
eskimo curlew;new world curlew that breeds in northern north america
water ox;asiatic buffalo often domesticated for use as a draft animal
vaccaria pyramidata;european annual with pale rose-colored flowers. cultivated flower or self-sown grainfield weed. introduced in north america. sometimes classified as a soapwort
mikania scandens;herb of tropical america having vanilla-scented flowers. climbs up trees
black apricot;small hybrid apricot of asia and asia minor having purplish twigs and white flowers following by inferior purple fruit
dog hobble;fast-growing evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having arching interlaced branches and racemes of white flowers
swallowwort;tropical herb having orange-red flowers followed by pods suggesting a swallow with outspread wings. a weed throughout the tropics
california sagebrush;low ashy-gray california shrub
starry saxifrage;small often mat-forming alpine plant having small starlike white flowers. europe
hamburg parsley;parsley with smooth leaves and enlarged edible taproot resembling a savory parsnip
helichrysum bracteatum;australian plant naturalized in spain having flowers of lemon yellow to deep gold. the choice everlasting of dried-flower lovers
brown ash;vigorous spreading north american tree having dark brown heavy wood. leaves turn gold in autumn
phalaris canariensis;canary islands grass. seeds used as feed for caged birds
crab eating raccoon;south american raccoon
sorrel tree;deciduous shrubby tree of eastern north america having deeply fissured bark and sprays of small fragrant white flowers and sour-tasting leaves
california privet;semi-evergreen japanese shrub having malodorous flowers. used extensively for hedges because more likely to stay green that common privet
black buck;common indian antelope with a dark back and spiral horns
azure aster;a variety of aster
barnacle;european goose smaller than the brant. breeds in the far north
native holly;low spreading evergreen shrub of southern australia having triangular to somewhat heart-shaped foliage and orange-yellow flowers followed by flat winged pods
sea louse;marine isopod crustacean
cursorius cursor;courser of desert and semidesert regions of the old world
royal velvet plant;javanese foliage plant grown for their handsome velvety leaves with violet-purple hairs
viburnum trilobum;deciduous north american shrub or small tree having three-lobed leaves and red berries
rock rose;any of numerous varieties of helianthemums having small roselike yellow or white or reddish flowers
ceratozamia;a small cycad of the genus ceratozamia having a short scaly woody trunk and fernlike foliage and woody cones. mexico
common pitcher plant;perennial bog herb having dark red flowers and decumbent broadly winged pitchers forming a rosette. of northeastern north america and naturalized in europe especially ireland
turnip rooted celery;grown for its thickened edible aromatic root
prickly poppy;any plant of the genus argemone having large white or yellow flowers and prickly leaves and stems and pods. chiefly of tropical america
clematis virginiana;common climber of eastern north america that sprawls over other plants and bears numerous panicles of small creamy white flowers
dwarf maple;small maple of northwestern north america
gopherus agassizii;burrowing tortoise of the arid western united states and northern mexico. may be reclassified as a member of genus xerobates
tellima grandiflora;plant growing in clumps with mostly basal leaves and cream or pale pink fringed flowers in several long racemes. alaska to coastal central california and east to idaho
west indian satinwood;west indian tree with smooth lustrous and slightly oily wood
potamophis striatula;in some classifications placed in genus haldea. small reddish-gray snake of eastern north america
ivory tree;tropical asian tree with hard white wood and bark formerly used as a remedy for dysentery and diarrhea
western yew;small or medium irregularly branched tree of the pacific coast of north america. yields fine hard close-grained wood
bullterrier;short-haired terrier originated in england by crossing the bulldog with terriers
old world yew;predominant yew in europe. extraordinarily long-lived and slow growing. one of the oldest species in the world
staurikosaurus;primitive dinosaur found in brazil
acocanthera venenata;evergreen shrub or tree of south africa
blue pimpernel;an american mint that yields a resinous exudate used especially formerly as an antispasmodic
kohlrabi;plant cultivated for its enlarged fleshy turnip-shaped edible stem
steinbok;small plains antelope of southeastern africa
staghorn sumac;deciduous shrubby tree or eastern north america with compound leaves that turn brilliant red in fall and dense panicles of greenish yellow flowers followed by crimson acidic berries
bullock s heart tree;small tropical american tree bearing a bristly heart-shaped acid tropical fruit
utahraptor;large (20-ft) and swift carnivorous dinosaur having an upright 15-in slashing claw on each hind foot. early cretaceous
coney;any of several small ungulate mammals of africa and asia with rodent-like incisors and feet with hooflike toes
purple osier;eurasian osier having reddish or purple twigs and bark rich in tannin
nemophila;any plant of the genus nemophila
machaeranthera tortifoloia;wild aster having grayish leafy stems and flower heads with narrow pale lavender or violet rayes. of rocky desert slopes california to arizona and utah
snowbell;small tree native to japan
cocoa bean;seed of the cacao tree. ground roasted beans are source of chocolate
homo sapiens neanderthalensis;extinct robust human of middle paleolithic in europe and western asia
liopelma hamiltoni;primitive new zealand frog with four unwebbed toes on forefeet and five on hind feet
chinaberry tree;tree of northern india and china having purple blossoms and small inedible yellow fruits. naturalized in the southern united states as a shade tree
borer;any of various insects or larvae or mollusks that bore into wood
pink of my john;a common and long cultivated european herb from which most common garden pansies are derived
pediculus capitis;infests the head and body of humans
filmy fern;any fern of the genus hymenophyllum growing in tropical humid regions and having translucent leaves
goatsbeard;weedy european annual with yellow flowers. naturalized in united states
thamnophis sirtalis;widespread in north america
chenopodium hybridum;herb considered fatal to swine
forest red gum;tall tree of queensland and new south wales and victoria
crack willow;large willow tree with stiff branches that are easily broken
ibero mesornis;sparrow-sized fossil bird of the lower cretaceous having a vestigial tail. found in spain. considered possibly the third most primitive of all birds
leontodon autumnalis;fall-blooming european herb with a yellow flower. naturalized in the united states
purple strawberry guava;small tropical shrubby tree bearing deep red oval fruit
false vampire bat;any new or old world carnivorous bat erroneously thought to suck blood but in fact feeding on insects
figwort;any of numerous tall coarse woodland plants of the genus scrophularia
hygrophorus inocybiformis;a fungus with a drab squamulose cap and gray-brown squamules over the white background of the stalk and waxy gray-white gills
peacock butterfly;european butterfly having reddish-brown wings each marked with a purple eyespot
alaska fur seal;of pacific coast from alaska southward to california
rubus spectabilis;large erect red-flowered raspberry of western north america having large salmon-colored berries
calf;young of various large placental mammals e.g. whale or giraffe or elephant or buffalo
kalmia;any plant of the genus kalmia
false nettle;any of several flowering weeds of the genus boehmeria lacking stinging hairs
four lined plant bug;yellow or orange leaf bug with four black stripes down the back. widespread in central and eastern north america
oriental cockroach;dark brown cockroach originally from orient now nearly cosmopolitan in distribution
red salmon;small red-fleshed salmon of rivers and tributaries of the north pacific valued as food. adults die after spawning
schizopetalon walkeri;a dainty south american annual having deeply pinnatifid leaves and racemes of fringed almond-scented purple-white flowers
palmetto;any of several low-growing palms with fan-shaped leaves
solitary pussytoes;a variety of pussytoes
campanula trachelium;european bellflower with blue-purple to lilac flowers formerly used to treat sore throat
line at a time printer;an output device on a computer that prints a whole line of characters at a time
bowstring hemp;grown as a houseplant for its mottled fleshy sword-shaped leaves or as a source of fiber
japanese table pine;pine native to japan and korea having a wide-spreading irregular crown when mature. grown as an ornamental
christella;any of several tropical ferns of the genus christella having thin brittle fronds
chuckwalla;rock-dwelling herbivorous lizard of arid parts of southwestern united states and mexico
waratah;straggling shrub with narrow leaves and conspicuous red flowers in dense globular racemes
japanese linden;medium-sized tree of japan used as an ornamental
spider orchid;south american orchid with spiderlike pale-yellow to pale-green flowers
self heal;decumbent blue-flowered european perennial thought to possess healing properties. naturalized throughout north america
chicken hawk;nontechnical term for any hawks said to prey on poultry
alabama lip fern;southeastern united states to northern mexico and jamaica
wild pumpkin;perennial vine of dry parts of central and southwestern united states and mexico having small hard mottled green inedible fruit
meriones longifrons;southern european gerbil
mother carey s chicken;medium-sized storm petrel
tasmanian wolf;rare doglike carnivorous marsupial of tasmania having stripes on its back. probably extinct
haemulon parra;found from florida to brazil and gulf of mexico
redberry;north american perennial herb with ternately compound leaves and racemes of small white flowers followed by bright red oval poisonous berries
styptic weed;very leafy malodorous tropical weedy shrub whose seeds have been used as an adulterant for coffee. sometimes classified in genus cassia
white pelican;large american pelican. white with black wing feathers
old maid;commonly cultivated old world woody herb having large pinkish to red flowers
common plantain;common european perennial naturalized worldwide. a troublesome weed
calochortus amoenus;globe lily with deep rose-pink or purple egg-shaped flowers on flexuous stems. western slopes of sierra nevada in san joaquin valley
himalayan cedar;tall east indian cedar having spreading branches with nodding tips. highly valued for its appearance as well as its timber
corvus monedula;common black-and-gray eurasian bird noted for thievery
chaparral pea;spiny evergreen xerophytic shrub having showy rose-purple flowers and forming dense thickets. of dry rocky mountain slopes of california
horse balm;erect perennial strong-scented with serrate pointed leaves and a loose panicle of yellowish flowers. the eastern united states
evening snow;small california annual with white flowers
bog rein orchid;orchid with spikes of many fragrant white flowers on erect leafy stems. of wet or boggy ground through most of the west and northern north america
balsam pear;tropical old world vine with yellow-orange fruit
sneezeweed yarrow;eurasian herb having loose heads of button-shaped white flowers and long gray-green leaves that cause sneezing when powdered
black bee;dark-colored ill-tempered honeybee supposedly of german origin
crotalus horridus horridus;widely distributed in rugged ground of eastern united states
alaska cod;closely related to atlantic cod
hibiscus sabdariffa;east indian sparsely prickly annual herb or perennial subshrub widely cultivated for its fleshy calyxes used in tarts and jelly and for its bast fiber
friendship plant;low stingless nettle of central and south america having velvety brownish-green toothed leaves and clusters of small green flowers
railroad worm;larvae bore into and feed on apples
coregonus artedi;important food fish of cold deep lakes of north america
kangaroo;any of several herbivorous leaping marsupials of australia and new guinea having large powerful hind legs and a long thick tail
water lettuce;pantropical floating plant forming a rosette of wedge-shaped leaves. a widespread weed in rivers and lakes
yellow adder s tongue;eastern north american dogtooth having solitary yellow flowers marked with brown or purple and spotted interiors
remount;a fresh horse especially (formerly) to replace one killed or injured in battle
spanish garlic;european leek cultivated and used like leeks
gopher tortoise;burrowing edible land tortoise of southeastern north america
european gallinule;purple gallinule of southern europe
lespedeza;shrubby or herbaceous plants widely used for forage, soil improvement, and especially hay in southern united states
citrus aurantifolia;any of various related trees bearing limes
ironwood;medium-sized hop hornbeam of eastern north america
american olive;small tree of southern united states having panicles of dull white flowers followed by dark purple fruits
nutria;aquatic south american rodent resembling a small beaver. bred for its fur
oriental arborvitae;asiatic shrub or small tree widely planted in united states and europe. in some classifications assigned to its own genus platycladus
rye grass;any of several annual or perennial eurasian grasses
platanthera chlorantha;south european orchid with dark green flowers that are larger and less fragrant than platanthera bifolia. sometimes placed in genus habenaria
race horse;a horse bred for racing
yellow henbane;found on sea beaches from virginia to south america having greenish-yellow flowers and orange or yellow berries
artemisia abrotanum;shrubby european wormwood naturalized in north america. sometimes used in brewing beer
arugula;erect european annual often grown as a salad crop to be harvested when young and tender
akee tree;widely cultivated in tropical and subtropical regions for its fragrant flowers and colorful fruits. introduced in jamaica by captain bligh of hms bounty
reptile;any cold-blooded vertebrate of the class reptilia including tortoises turtles snakes lizards alligators crocodiles and extinct forms
manroot;tropical american prostrate or climbing herbaceous perennial having an enormous starchy root. sometimes held to be source of the sweet potato
woodlouse;any of various small terrestrial isopods having a flat elliptical segmented body. found in damp habitats
rush aster;a variety of aster
pipit;small songbirds resembling larks
ononis repens;european woody plant having pink flowers and unifoliolate leaves and long tough roots. spreads by underground runners
hyemoschus aquaticus;largest chevrotain. of marshy areas of west africa
great anteater;large shaggy-haired toothless anteater with long tongue and powerful claws. of south america
cnemidophorus exsanguis;having longitudinal stripes overlaid with light spots. upland lizard of united states southwest and mexico
gander;mature male goose
cougar;large american feline resembling a lion
bear grass;yucca of southern united states having a clump of basal grasslike leaves and a central stalk with a terminal raceme of small whitish flowers
parkinsonia aculeata;large shrub or shrubby tree having sharp spines and pinnate leaves with small deciduous leaflets and sweet-scented racemose yellow-orange flowers. grown as ornamentals or hedging or emergency food for livestock. tropical america but naturalized in southern united states
least bittern;small american bittern
purple clematis;climber of northeastern north america having waxy purplish-blue flowers
pestle;a heavy bar that moves vertically for crushing ores
flying lemur;arboreal nocturnal mammal of southeast asia and the philippines resembling a lemur and having a fold of skin on each side from neck to tail that is used for long gliding leaps
percoid fish;any of numerous spiny-finned fishes of the order perciformes
european fire salamander;a kind of european salamander
louse;wingless usually flattened blood-sucking insect parasitic on warm-blooded animals
english walnut;eurasian walnut valued for its large edible nut and its hard richly figured wood. widely cultivated
guppy;small freshwater fish of south america and west indies. often kept in aquariums
boletus pulcherrimus;a beautiful but poisonous bolete. has a brown cap with a scarlet pore surface and a thick reticulate stalk
moth mullein;european mullein with smooth leaves and large yellow or purplish flowers. naturalized as a weed in north america
campion;any plant of the genus silene
laurel tree;small tree of southern united states having dark red heartwood
tree lupine;evergreen shrub of united states pacific coast having showy yellow or blue flowers. naturalized in australia
celery cabbage;plant with an elongated celery-like head of broad stalked leaves used as a vegetable in east asia
chuck will s widow;large whippoorwill-like bird of the southern united states
sabertooth;any of many extinct cats of the old and new worlds having long swordlike upper canine teeth. from the oligocene through the pleistocene
skink;alert agile lizard with reduced limbs and an elongated body covered with shiny scales. more dependent on moisture than most lizards. found in tropical regions worldwide
potoroo;australian rat kangaroos
holarrhena pubescens;tropical asian tree with hard white wood and bark formerly used as a remedy for dysentery and diarrhea
procellaria aequinoctialis;large black petrel of southern seas having a white mark on the chin
quercus vaccinifolia;a low spreading or prostrate shrub of southwestern united states with small acorns and leaves resembling those of the huckleberry
struthio camelus;fast-running african flightless bird with two-toed feet. largest living bird
gramineous plant;cosmopolitan herbaceous or woody plants with hollow jointed stems and narrow long-bladed leaves
draught horse;horse adapted for drawing heavy loads
tragopogon porrifolius;mediterranean biennial herb with long-stemmed heads of purple ray flowers and milky sap and long edible root. naturalized throughout united states
shining clubmoss;a variety of clubmoss
tussur;oriental moth that produces brownish silk
diesel motor;an internal-combustion engine that burns heavy oil
scarlet pimpernel;herb with scarlet or white or purple blossoms that close at approach of rainy weather
sweet bay;shrub or small tree having rather small fragrant white flowers. abundant in southeastern united states
weldment;an assembly of parts welded together
manta ray;extremely large pelagic tropical ray that feeds on plankton and small fishes. usually harmless but its size make it dangerous if harpooned
iris xiphioides;bulbous iris native to the pyrenees. widely cultivated for its large delicate flowers in various colors except yellow
zonotrichia albicollis;common north american finch with a white patch on the throat and black-and-white striped crown
european wood mouse;nocturnal yellowish-brown mouse inhabiting woods and fields and gardens
rabbitfish;large european chimaera
basilisk;small crested arboreal lizard able to run on its hind legs. of tropical america
pomatomus saltatrix;bluish warm-water marine food and game fish that follow schools of small fishes into shallow waters
sorbus domestica;medium-sized european tree resembling the rowan but bearing edible fruit
gracilariid;small dull or metallic-colored tineoid moths whose larvae mine in plant leaves
setophaga ruticilla;flycatching warbler of eastern north america the male having bright orange on sides and wings and tail
hercules  clubs;densely spiny ornamental of southeastern united states and west indies
sweet granadilla;considered best for fruit
clary sage;stout mediterranean sage with white or pink or violet flowers. yields oil used as a flavoring and in perfumery
macropus agiles;height 30 inches
aphis lion;carnivorous larva of lacewing flies
enhydra lutris;large marine otter of northern pacific coasts having very thick dark brown fur
white shark;large aggressive shark widespread in warm seas. known to attack humans
pheasant s eye;eurasian herb cultivated for its dark-centered deep red flowers
ovalipes ocellatus;brightly spotted crab of sandy beaches of the united states atlantic coast
hesperiphona vespertina;north american grosbeak
egg laying mammal;the most primitive mammals comprising the only extant members of the subclass prototheria
louvar;large silvery fish found worldwide in warm seas but nowhere common. resembles a whale and feeds on plankton
tree creeper;any of numerous south and central american birds with a curved bill and stiffened tail feathers that climb and feed like woodpeckers
goldie s wood fern;north american fern with a blackish lustrous stipe
entoparasite;any of various parasites that live in the internal organs of animals (especially intestinal worms)
sarda chiliensis;common bonito of pacific coast of the americas. its dark oily flesh cans well
glaux maritima;a small fleshy herb common along north american seashores and in brackish marshes having pink or white flowers
climbing nightshade;poisonous perennial old world vine having violet flowers and oval coral-red berries. widespread weed in north america
genus cryptoprocta;large primitive catlike carnivores inhabiting forests of madagascar
turbatrix aceti;minute eelworm that feeds on organisms that cause fermentation in e.g. vinegar
gonorhynchus gonorhynchus;fish of sandy areas of western pacific and indian oceans having an angular snout for burrowing into sand
gall midge;fragile mosquito-like flies that produce galls on plants
red campion;biennial european catchfly having red or pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus lychnis
ornithogalum pyrenaicum;old world star of bethlehem having edible young shoots
red sanderswood;tree of india and east indies yielding a hard fragrant timber prized for cabinetwork and dark red heartwood used as a dyewood
lusus naturae;a person or animal that is markedly unusual or deformed
california lady s slipper;often having many yellow-green orchids with white pouches growing along streams and seeps of southwestern oregon and northern california
spinach;southwestern asian plant widely cultivated for its succulent edible dark green leaves
phacelia minor;desert plant of southern california with blue or violet tubular flowers in terminal racemes
elaeocarpus grandis;australian tree having hard white timber and glossy green leaves with white flowers followed by one-seeded glossy blue fruit
orthomyxovirus;a group of viruses including those causing influenza
arrhenatherum elatius;coarse perennial eurasian oatlike grass found on roadside verges and rough grassland and in hay meadows. introduced in north america for forage
sweet rocket;long-cultivated herb having flowers whose scent is more pronounced in the evening. naturalized throughout europe to siberia and into north america
groundberry;small prostrate or ascending shrub having scarlet flowers and thin-fleshed succulent fruit resembling cranberries. sometimes place in genus styphelia
drumfish;small to medium-sized bottom-dwelling food and game fishes of shallow coastal and fresh waters that make a drumming noise
new world opah;from nova scotia to west indies and gulf of mexico
giant cane;tall grass of southern united states growing in thickets
orange hawkweed;european hawkweed having flower heads with bright orange-red rays. a troublesome weed especially as naturalized in northeastern north america. sometimes placed in genus hieracium
brass buttons;south african herb with golden-yellow globose flower heads. naturalized in moist areas along coast of california. cultivated as an ornamental
cos lettuce;lettuce with long dark-green spoon-shaped leaves
tall crowfoot;perennial european buttercup with yellow spring flowers widely naturalized especially in eastern north america
ape;any of various primates with short tails or no tail at all
jack mackerel;a california food fish
golden oriole;bright yellow songbird with black wings
sipunculid;small unsegmented marine worm that when disturbed retracts its anterior portion into the body giving the appearance of a peanut
leatherfish;any of several brightly colored tropical filefishes
quarter horse;a small powerful horse originally bred for sprinting in quarter-mile races in virginia
kitten tails;a plant of the genus besseya having fluffy spikes of flowers
allspice;aromatic west indian tree that produces allspice berries
petteria ramentacea;erect shrub having large trifoliate leaves and dense clusters of yellow flowers followed by poisonous seeds. yugoslavia. sometimes placed in genus cytisus
hippeastrum;amaryllis of tropical america often cultivated as a houseplant for its showy white to red flowers
spittlebug;small leaping herbivorous insect that lives in a mass of protective froth which it and its larvae secrete
lobotes pacificus;tripletail found in the pacific
verbesina helianthoides;perennial herb with yellow flowers. southern and south central united states
cinnamon bear;reddish-brown color phase of the american black bear
tent caterpillar moth;moth whose larvae are tent caterpillars
peromyscus maniculatus;brownish new world mouse. most widely distributed member of the genus
fringed grass of parnassus;bog plant with broadly heart-shaped basal leaves and cream or white saucer-shaped flowers with fringed petals. west of rocky mountains from alaska to new mexico
tinnevelly senna;erect shrub having racemes of tawny yellow flowers. the dried leaves are used medicinally as a cathartic. sometimes placed in genus cassia
lycopod;primitive evergreen mosslike plant with spores in club-shaped strobiles
gray goldenrod;a dyer's weed of canada and the eastern united states having yellow flowers sometimes used in dyeing
tinamou;heavy-bodied small-winged south american game bird resembling a gallinaceous bird but related to the ratite birds
spanish oak;small deciduous tree having the trunk branched almost from the base with spreading branches. texas and southern oklahoma
erythrina variegata;small to medium-sized thorny tree of tropical asia and northern australia having dense clusters of scarlet or crimson flowers and black seeds
forsythia;any of various early blooming oleaceous shrubs of the genus forsythia. native to eastern asia and southern europe but widely cultivated for their branches of bright yellow bell-shaped flowers
northern jacob s ladder;perennial erect herb with white flowers. circumboreal
mangel wurzel;beet with a large yellowish root. grown chiefly as cattle feed
family loranthaceae;in some classification includes viscaceae: parasitic or hemiparasitic shrublets or shrubs or small trees of tropical and temperate regions. attach to hosts by haustoria
allegheny spurge;low semi-evergreen perennial herb having small spikes of white or pinkish flowers. native to southern united states but grown elsewhere
spanish pointer;a strong slender smooth-haired dog of spanish origin having a white coat with brown or black patches. scents out and points game
crocus sativus;old world crocus having purple or white flowers with aromatic pungent orange stigmas used in flavoring food
true laurel;small mediterranean evergreen tree with small blackish berries and glossy aromatic leaves used for flavoring in cooking. also used by ancient greeks to crown victors
shorea teysmanniana;valuable philippine timber tree
constrictor constrictor;very large boa of tropical america and west indies
cornus stolonifera;common north american shrub with reddish purple twigs and white flowers
smooth winterberry holly;a holly shrub
rhinoceros beetle;any of various large chiefly tropical beetles having horns on the head. pest on coconuts
selaginella eatonii;occurs widely in florida
oxheart;any of several cultivated sweet cherries having sweet juicy heart-shaped fruits
redpoll;small siskin-like finch with a red crown
achillea millefolium;ubiquitous strong-scented mat-forming eurasian herb of wasteland, hedgerow or pasture having narrow serrate leaves and small usually white florets. widely naturalized in north america
american red squirrel;of northern united states and canada
natrix sipedon;in some classifications placed in the genus nerodia. western united states snake that seldom ventures far from water
georgia bark;ornamental shrub or small tree of swampy areas in southwestern united states having large pink or white sepals and yielding georgia bark for treating fever
platanthera bifolia;south european orchid having fragrant greenish-white flowers. sometimes placed in genus habenaria
picus viridis;woodpecker of europe and western asia
ai;a sloth that has three long claws on each forefoot
edible snail;one of the chief edible snails
bush willow;small deciduous tree of the transvaal having spikes of yellow flowers
swamp sparrow;north american finch of marshy area
tansy mustard;north american herb with bitter-tasting pinnate leaves resembling those of tansy
cheese;erect or decumbent old world perennial with axillary clusters of rosy-purple flowers. introduced in united states
whirligig beetle;aquatic beetle that circles rapidly on the water surface
carya myristicaeformis;hickory of southern united states and mexico having hard nutmeg-shaped nuts
tree kangaroo;arboreal wallabies of new guinea and northern australia having hind and forelegs of similar length
dwarf bilberry;low-growing tufted deciduous shrub of northern and alpine north america having pink to coral-red flowers followed by sweet blue berries
bubulcus ibis;small white egret widely distributed in warm regions often found around grazing animals
creeping fern;delicate fern of the eastern united states having a twining stem and palmately-lobed sterile fronds and forked fertile fronds
liger;offspring of a male lion and a female tiger
california buckthorn;evergreen shrub of western united states bearing small red or black fruits
cultivated cabbage;any of various cultivars of the genus brassica oleracea grown for their edible leaves or flowers
meadow bright;swamp plant of europe and north america having bright yellow flowers resembling buttercups
toothache tree;small deciduous aromatic shrub (or tree) having spiny branches and yellowish flowers. eastern north america
barosaurus;5-story-tall dinosaur
bubalus bubalis;asiatic buffalo often domesticated for use as a draft animal
tursiops gilli;a bottlenose dolphin found in the pacific ocean
wild parsley;any of various uncultivated umbelliferous plants with foliage resembling that of carrots or parsley
rock crab;crab of eastern coast of north america
web spinner;any of a small order of slender typically tropical insects that nest in colonies in silken tunnels that they spin
longar palm;tall fan palm of africa and india and malaysia yielding a hard wood and sweet sap that is a source of palm wine and sugar. leaves used for thatching and weaving
anastatica hierochuntica;small gray asiatic desert plant bearing minute white flowers that rolls up when dry and expands when moist
pinwheel flower;tropical shrub having glossy foliage and fragrant nocturnal flowers with crimped or wavy corollas. northern india to thailand
field balm;low-growing strongly aromatic perennial herb of southern europe to gb naturalized in united states
ironwood;a small slow-growing deciduous tree of northern iran having a low domed shape
mountain sumac;common nonpoisonous shrub of eastern north america with compound leaves and green paniculate flowers followed by red berries
water moccasin;any of numerous north american water snakes inhabiting fresh waters
ovis poli;asiatic wild sheep with exceptionally large horns. sometimes considered a variety of the argali (or ovis ammon)
capsicum annuum longum;plant bearing very hot and finely tapering long peppers. usually red
bacilli;aerobic rod-shaped spore-producing bacterium. often occurring in chainlike formations
japanese oak;small evergreen tree of china and japan
granadilla;tropical american passionflower yielding the large granadilla fruit
hoheria populnea;small tree or shrub of new zealand having a profusion of axillary clusters of honey-scented paper-white flowers and whose bark is used for cordage
mango;large evergreen tropical tree cultivated for its large oval smooth-skinned fruit
anaconda;large arboreal boa of tropical south america
lobelia dortmanna;erect perennial aquatic herb of europe and north america having submerged spongy leaves and pendulous racemes of blue flowers above the water
rattus rattus;common household pest originally from asia that has spread worldwide
chinquapin oak;medium-sized deciduous tree of the eastern united states that yields a strong durable wood
sponge;primitive multicellular marine animal whose porous body is supported by a fibrous skeletal framework. usually occurs in sessile colonies
angelim;any of several tropical american trees of the genus andira
cortaderia selloana;tall perennial grass of pampas of south america having silvery plumes and growing in large dense clumps
trumpet honeysuckle;evergreen north american honeysuckle vine having coral-red or orange flowers
leaf mustard;asiatic mustard used as a potherb
prunus susquehanae;small straggling american cherry growing on sandy soil and having minute scarcely edible purplish-black fruit
angoumois moth;small moth whose larvae feed on kernels of stored grains
nephrolepis exaltata bostoniensis;a sword fern with arching or drooping pinnate fronds. a popular houseplant
fanaloka;civet of madagascar
chaparral sage;silvery-leaved california herb with purple flowers
false ragweed;tall annual marsh elder common in moist rich soil is central north america that can cause contact dermatitis. produces much pollen that is a major cause of hay fever
red breasted nuthatch;bluish-gray nuthatch with reddish breast. of northern coniferous forests
dendrobium;a plant of the genus dendrobium having stems like cane and usually showy racemose flowers
jonquil;often used colloquially for any yellow daffodil
nothofagus dombeyi;chilean evergreen whose leafy boughs are used for thatching
cancer magister;small edible crab of pacific coast of north america
lepiota rhacodes;an agaric with a large cap with brown scales and a thick stalk
fragrant water lily;a water lily having large leaves and showy fragrant flowers that float on the water. of temperate and tropical regions
cabbageworm;toxic green larva of a cabbage butterfly
herpestes ichneumon;north african mongoose. in ancient times thought to devour crocodile eggs
spirilla;any flagellated aerobic bacteria having a spirally twisted rodlike form
chinchona;any of several trees of the genus cinchona
red maple;maple of eastern and central america. 5-lobed leaves scarlet and yellow in autumn
origanum majorana;aromatic european plant native to mediterranean and turkey. not widespread in europe
flamingo flower;commonly cultivated anthurium having bright scarlet spathe and spadix
chameleon tree frog;a form of tree toad
cardinal flower;north american lobelia having brilliant red flowers
judas tree;small tree of the eastern mediterranean having abundant purplish-red flowers growing on old wood directly from stems and appearing before the leaves: widely cultivated in mild regions. wood valuable for veneers
jackal;old world nocturnal canine mammal closely related to the dog. smaller than a wolf. sometimes hunts in a pack but usually singly or as a member of a pair
paprilus alepidotus;butterfish up to a foot long of atlantic waters from chesapeake bay to argentina
tragelaphus imberbis;a smaller variety of kudu
lycopus americanus;aromatic perennial herb of united states
hickory pine;small 2-needled upland pine of the eastern united states (appalachians) having dark brown flaking bark and thorn-tipped cone scales
blue shark;slender cosmopolitan, pelagic shark. blue body shades to white belly. dangerous esp. during maritime disasters
smooth softshell;river turtle of mississippi basin. prefers running water
populus canescens;large rapidly growing poplar with faintly lobed dentate leaves gray on the lower surface. native to europe but introduced and naturalized elsewhere
epipactis gigantea;orchid growing along streams or ponds of western north america having leafy stems and 1 greenish-brown and pinkish flower in the axil of each upper leaf
panamica;low stingless nettle of central and south america having velvety brownish-green toothed leaves and clusters of small green flowers
protea;any tropical african shrub of the genus protea having alternate rigid leaves and dense colorful flower heads resembling cones
cigarfish;small fusiform fish of western atlantic
alder dogwood;small tree common in europe
brassica oleracea acephala;a hardy cabbage with coarse curly leaves that do not form a head
kitty;young domestic cat
oxtongue;widespread european weed with spiny tongue-shaped leaves and yellow flowers. naturalized in united states
chiococca alba;evergreen climbing shrub of southern florida and west indies grown for its racemes of fragrant white to creamy flowers followed by globose white succulent berries
prairie anemone;short hairy perennial with early spring blue-violet or lilac flowers. north america and siberia
japanese red pine;pine native to japan and korea having a wide-spreading irregular crown when mature. grown as an ornamental
fox;alert carnivorous mammal with pointed muzzle and ears and a bushy tail. most are predators that do not hunt in packs
shovelnose catfish;large catfish of central united states having a flattened head and projecting jaw
pacific silver fir;medium to tall fir of western north america having a conic crown and branches in tiers. leaves smell of orange when crushed
leonotis nepetifolia;pantropical herb having whorls of striking lipped flowers. naturalized in united states
carpet grass;grass native to west indies but common in southern united states having tufted wiry stems often infested with a dark fungus (helminthosporum_ravenelii)
knot;sandpiper that breeds in the arctic and winters in the s hemisphere
honker;common grayish-brown wild goose of north america
pony;a range horse of the western united states
germ;a minute life form (especially a disease-causing bacterium). the term is not in technical use
jonquil;widely cultivated ornamental plant native to southern europe but naturalized elsewhere having fragrant yellow or white clustered flowers
snook;large tropical american food and game fishes of coastal and brackish waters. resemble pike
cruciferous plant;any of various plants of the family cruciferae
bramble;any of various rough thorny shrubs or vines
lapin;castrated male rabbit
largemouth;a large black bass. the angle of the jaw falls behind the eye
esparcet;eurasian perennial herb having pale pink flowers and curved pods. naturalized in britain and north america grasslands on calcareous soils. important forage crop and source of honey in britain
goatfish;brightly colored tropical fishes with chin barbels
downy chess;annual or winter annual grass with softly hairy leaves of the mediterranean
moth bean;east indian legume having hairy foliage and small yellow flowers followed by cylindrical pods. used especially in india for food and forage and soil-conditioning. sometimes placed in genus phaseolus
whitetail prairie dog;tail is white tipped
trachinotus carolinus;found in coastal waters new england to brazil except clear waters of west indies
devil ray;small manta (to 4 feet) that travels in schools
calamint;perennial aromatic herbs growing in hedgerows or scrub or open woodlands from western europe to central asia and in north america
phegopteris hexagonoptera;beech fern of north american woodlands having straw-colored stripes
cyrilla racemiflora;shrub or small tree of southeastern united states to west indies and brazil. grown for the slender racemes of white flowers and orange-crimson foliage
pinus contorta murrayana;tall subspecies of lodgepole pine
chinese white cabbage;asiatic plant grown for its cluster of edible white stalks with dark green leaves
tepary bean;twining plant of southwestern united states and mexico having roundish white or yellow or brown or black beans
helleborine;any of various orchids of the genus epipactis
magnolia acuminata;american deciduous magnolia having large leaves and fruit like a small cucumber
red bellied turtle;freshwater turtle of chesapeake bay tributaries having red markings on the lower shell
king penguin;large penguin on islands bordering the antarctic circle
weigela florida;deciduous shrub widely cultivated for its white or pink or red flowers
shepherd s clock;weedy european annual with yellow flowers. naturalized in united states
brown trout;speckled trout of european rivers. introduced in north america
epizoon;any external parasitic organism (as fleas)
common hop;european twining plant whose flowers are used chiefly to flavor malt liquors. cultivated in america
ophiophagus hannan;large cobra of southeastern asia and the east indies. the largest venomous snake. sometimes placed in genus naja
old man of the mountain;whitish hairy plant with featherlike leaves and a few stout stems each bearing an especially handsome solitary large yellow flower head. mountainous regions north central united states
railroad vine;prostrate perennial of coastal sand dunes florida to texas
urodele;amphibians that resemble lizards
soft rush;tall rush with soft erect or arching stems found in eurasia, australia, new zealand, and common in north america
power saw;a power tool for cutting wood
lutjanus analis;similar to and often marketed as 'red snapper'
fairway crested wheat grass;eurasian grass grown in united states great plains area for forage and erosion control
amorpha californica;erect to spreading hairy shrub of united states pacific coast having racemes of red to indigo flowers
white cedar;small evergreen of eastern north america having tiny scalelike leaves on flattened branchlets
short tailed shrew;north american shrew with tail less than half its body length
tamanoir;large shaggy-haired toothless anteater with long tongue and powerful claws. of south america
cape yellowwood;south african tree or shrub having a rounded crown
amorphophallus campanulatus;putrid-smelling aroid of southeastern asia (especially the philippines) grown for its edible tuber
self starter;an electric motor that automatically starts an internal-combustion engine
wild olive;erect shrub or climber of india and china with red olivelike fruit
cheiranthus cheiri;perennial of southern europe having clusters of fragrant flowers of all colors especially yellow and orange. often naturalized on old walls or cliffs. sometimes placed in genus erysimum
salt reed grass;tall reedlike grass common in salt meadows
huntsman s horn;pitcher plant of southeastern united states having erect wide-mouth yellow trumpet-shaped pitchers with erect lids
killer;predatory black-and-white toothed whale with large dorsal fin. common in cold seas
sigmodon hispidus;destructive long-haired burrowing rat of southern north america and central america
ribbon grass;perennial grass of marshy meadows and ditches having broad leaves. europe and north america
golden pheasant;brightly colored crested pheasant of mountains of western and central asia
hordeum jubatum;barley grown for its highly ornamental flower heads with delicate long silky awns. north america and northeastern asia
mapinguari;supposed human-sized sloth-like creature reported sighted by indians in the amazon rain forest
heal all;decumbent blue-flowered european perennial thought to possess healing properties. naturalized throughout north america
lion marmoset;small south american marmoset with silky fur and long nonprehensile tail
fraxinus cuspidata;shrubby ash of southwestern united states having fragrant white flowers
green apple aphid;bright green aphid. feeds on and causes curling of apple leaves
japanese deer;small deer of japan with slightly forked antlers
agua toad;largest known toad species. native to central america. valuable destroyer of insect pests
marlberry;tropical american shrub or small tree with brown wood and dark berries
indian rhinoceros;having one horn
ameba;naked freshwater or marine or parasitic protozoa that form temporary pseudopods for feeding and locomotion
jointed charlock;eurasian weed having yellow or mauve or white flowers and podlike fruits
aquilegia vulgaris;common european columbine having variously colored (white or blue to purple or red) short-spurred flowers. naturalized in united states
canadian red pine;pine of eastern north america having long needles in bunches of two and reddish bark
white alder;tree of western united states
emperor;large richly colored butterfly
autumn pumpkin;a coarse vine widely cultivated for its non-keeping large pulpy round orange fruit with firm orange skin and numerous seeds. subspecies of cucurbita pepo include the summer squashes and a few autumn squashes
kale;a hardy cabbage with coarse curly leaves that do not form a head
creeping thyme;aromatic dwarf shrub common on banks and hillsides in europe. naturalized in united states
calochortus nuttallii;perennial plant having umbel-like clusters of 1-4 showy white bell-shaped flowers atop erect unbranched stems. edible bulbs useful in times of scarcity. eastern montana and western north dakota south to northern arizona and northwestern new mexico
ammobium;any plant of the genus ammobium having yellow flowers and silvery foliage
bur grass;a grass of the genus cenchrus
plumed scorpionfish;a kind of scorpionfish
pinus nigra;large 2-needled timber pine of southeastern europe
citellus parryi;large ground squirrel of the north american far north
philohela minor;small long-billed american woodcock. prized as a game bird
lota lota;elongate freshwater cod of northern europe and asia and north america having barbels around its mouth
honeysuckle;columbine of eastern north america having long-spurred red flowers
northern dewberry;of eastern north america
large flowering magnolia;evergreen tree of southern united states having large stiff glossy leaves and huge white sweet-smelling flowers
frog orchid;any of several green orchids of the genus habenaria
ivory palm;a stemless palm tree of brazil and peru bearing ivory nuts
yarrow;ubiquitous strong-scented mat-forming eurasian herb of wasteland, hedgerow or pasture having narrow serrate leaves and small usually white florets. widely naturalized in north america
solanum macranthum;south american shrub or small tree widely cultivated in the tropics. not a true potato
grass parakeet;small australian parakeet usually light green with black and yellow markings in the wild but bred in many colors
periwinkle;commonly cultivated old world woody herb having large pinkish to red flowers
rough horsetail;evergreen erect horsetail with rough-edged stems. formerly used for scouring utensils
branchiopod crustacean;aquatic crustaceans typically having a carapace and many pairs of leaflike appendages used for swimming as well as respiration and feeding
early purple orchid;eurasian orchid with showy pink or purple flowers in a loose spike
rabbit bush;pleasantly aromatic shrub having erect slender flexible hairy branches and dense clusters of small yellow flowers covering vast areas of western alkali plains and affording a retreat for jackrabbits. source of a yellow dye used by navajo indians
halimodendron argenteum;spiny shrub of thhhe caspian salt plains and siberia having elegant silve3ry-downy young foliage and mildly fragrant pink-purple blooms
creeping thistle;european thistle naturalized in united states and canada where it is a pernicious weed
elver;young eel
wood ibis;american stork resembling the true ibises in having a curved bill. inhabits wooded swamps of new world tropics
pallas s cat;small wildcat of the mountains of siberia tibet and mongolia
bahia grass;perennial tropical american grass used as pasture grass in arid areas of gulf states
african marigold;a stout branching annual with large yellow to orange flower heads. mexico and central america
bugbane;a plant of the genus cimicifuga having flowers in long racemes or panicles reported to be distasteful to insects
black bass;bluish black-striped sea bass of the atlantic coast of the united states
studhorse;adult male horse kept for breeding
pan troglodytes verus;masked or pale-faced chimpanzees of western africa. distantly related to the eastern and central chimpanzees. possibly a distinct species
sonoran lyre snake;of desert regions of southwestern north america
ranunculus sceleratus;annual herb growing in marshy places
new world least weasel;of canada and northeastern united states
european hare;large hare introduced in north america. does not turn white in winter
myotis leucifugus;the small common north american bat. widely distributed
ectopistes migratorius;gregarious north american migratory pigeon now extinct
stemless daisy;dwarf tufted nearly stemless herb having a rosette of woolly leaves and large white-rayed flower heads and bristly achenes. central canada and united states west to arizona
leaf cutting bee;bee that cuts rounded pieces from leaves and flowers to line its nest
damask violet;long-cultivated herb having flowers whose scent is more pronounced in the evening. naturalized throughout europe to siberia and into north america
european barberry;upright deciduous european shrub widely naturalized in united states having clusters of juicy berries
capreolus capreolus;small graceful deer of eurasian woodlands having small forked antlers
cynoglossum virginaticum;perennial shrub of north america having coarse tongue-shaped leaves and pale-blue to purple flowers
dabbling duck;any of numerous shallow-water ducks that feed by upending and dabbling
quipu;a cord with attached cords. used by ancient peruvians for calculating and keeping records
california redbud;shrub of western united states having pink or crimson flowers. often forms thickets
assam rubber;large tropical asian tree frequently dwarfed as a houseplant. source of assam rubber
gidgee;scrubby australian acacia having extremely foul-smelling blossoms
bug;general term for any insect or similar creeping or crawling invertebrate
amorphophallus rivieri;foul-smelling somewhat fleshy tropical plant of southeastern asia cultivated for its edible corms or in the greenhouse for its large leaves and showy dark red spathe surrounding a large spadix
european blackbird;common black european thrush
toy dog;any of several breeds of very small dogs kept purely as pets
neuropterous insect;insect having biting mouthparts and four large membranous wings with netlike veins
checkered whiptail;markings are darker and more marked than in western whiptail. from southeastern colorado to eastern chihuahua
veronica arvensis;erect or procumbent blue-flowered annual found in waste places of europe and america
rheum cultorum;long-cultivated hybrid of rheum palmatum. stems often cooked in pies or as sauce or preserves
arctic ground squirrel;large ground squirrel of the north american far north
gourd vine;any vine of the family cucurbitaceae that bears hard-rinded fruits
waldmeister;old world fragrant stoloniferous perennial having small white flowers and narrow leaves used as flavoring and in sachets. widely cultivated as a ground cover. in some classifications placed in genus asperula
antrozous pallidus;drab yellowish big-eared cave-dwelling bat
pine leaf aphid;a variety of adelgid
oryx;large african antelope with long straight nearly upright horns
teredo;typical shipworm
parvo;any of a group of viruses containing dna in an icosahedral protein shell and causing disease in dogs and cattle. not known to be associated with any human disease
iron oak;small deciduous tree of eastern and central united states having dark green lyrate pinnatifid leaves and tough moisture-resistant wood used especially for fence posts
hibiscus trionum;annual weedy herb with ephemeral yellow purple-eyed flowers. old world tropics. naturalized as a weed in north america
electrostatic printer;a printer that uses an electric charge to deposit toner on paper
coast rhododendron;medium-sized rhododendron of pacific coast of north america having large rosy brown-spotted flowers
cerastium tomentosum;chickweed with hairy silver-gray leaves and rather large white flowers
pentastomid;wormlike arthropod having two pairs of hooks at the sides of the mouth. parasitic in nasal sinuses of mammals
surnia ulula;gray-and-white diurnal hawk-like owl of northern parts of the northern hemisphere
fragaria vesca;europe
calocedrus decurrens;tall tree of north american pacific coast having cypress-like foliage and cinnamon-red bark
kidney bean;the common bean plant grown for the beans rather than the pods especially a variety with large red kidney-shaped beans
european hornbeam;medium-sized old world tree with smooth gray bark and beech-like leaves that turn yellow-orange in autumn
tamarisk gerbil;popular as a pet
eastern gray squirrel;common medium-large squirrel of eastern north america. now introduced into england
tumbler pigeon;pigeon that executes backward somersaults in flight or on the ground
maguey;mexican plant used especially for making pulque the source of the colorless mexican liquor mescal
prickly ash;any of a number of trees or shrubs of the genus zanthoxylum having spiny branches
rosinweed;any of various western american plants of the genus grindelia having resinous leaves and stems formerly used medicinally. often poisonous to livestock
charadrius melodus;small plover of eastern north america
psophia crepitans;trumpeter of brazil and guiana. often kept to protect poultry in brazil
gossypium thurberi;shrub of southern arizona and mexico
coyote;small wolf native to western north america
rampion bellflower;bellflower of europe and asia and north africa having bluish flowers and an edible tuberous root used with the leaves in salad
yardgrass;coarse annual grass having fingerlike spikes of flowers. native to old world tropics. a naturalized weed elsewhere
ladies;north american perennial propagated by means of runners
edible banana;widely cultivated species of banana trees bearing compact hanging clusters of commercially important edible yellow fruit
shiitake;edible east asian mushroom having a golden or dark brown to blackish cap and an inedible stipe
strawberry tomato;decorative american annual having round fleshy yellow berries enclosed in a bladderlike husk
curly coated retriever;an english breed having a tightly curled black or liver-colored coat. retrieves game from land or water
japanese snowbell;shrubby tree of china and japan
sweet pepper;mild bell-shaped fruit of a sweet pepper plant. usually green and red but now available in orange and yellow and purple and black and white
merino sheep;white sheep originating in spain and producing a heavy fleece of exceptional quality
boysenberry bush;cultivated hybrid bramble of california having large dark wine-red fruit with a raspberrylike flavor
lizardfish;tropical fishes with large mouths in lizard-like heads. found worldwide
common allamanda;vigorous evergreen climbing plant of south america having glossy leathery foliage and golden yellow flowers
snow plant;a fleshy bright red saprophytic plant of the mountains of western north america that appears in early spring while snow is on the ground
paper flower;brazilian vine that tends to flower continuously
queen of the night;tropical american climbing cactus having triangular branches. often cultivated for its large showy night-blooming flowers followed by yellow red-streaked fruits
musk ox;large shaggy-coated bovid mammal of canada and greenland. intermediate in size and anatomy between an ox and a sheep
purple chinese houses;white and lavender to pale-blue flowers grow in perfect rings of widely spaced bands around the stems forming a kind of pagoda. california
pogonia rosea;orchid of central and northern south america having 1- to 3-blossomed racemes of large showy rose-colored flowers. sometimes placed in genus pogonia
benweed;widespread european weed having yellow daisylike flowers. sometimes an obnoxious weed and toxic to cattle if consumed in quantity
senna auriculata;evergreen indian shrub with vivid yellow flowers whose bark is used in tanning. sometimes placed in genus cassia
assembly;a group of machine parts that fit together to form a self-contained unit
abronia maritima;plant having hemispherical heads of wine-red flowers. found in coastal dunes from california to mexico
tutsan;deciduous bushy eurasian shrub with golden yellow flowers and reddish-purple fruits from which a soothing salve is made in spain
spider orchid;central american orchid having spiderlike flowers with prominent green warts
florida gallinule;north american dark bluish-gray gallinule
sloe;wild plum of northeastern united states having dark purple fruits with yellow flesh
claviceps purpurea;a fungus that infects various cereal plants forming compact black masses of branching filaments that replace many grains of the plant. source of medicinally important alkaloids and of lysergic acid
tadirida femorosacca;small brown bat of california and northern mexico
wild cotton;shrub of southern arizona and mexico
spotted sunfish;inhabits streams from s carolina to florida. esteemed panfish
anomalopteryx oweni;the smallest moa. slender moa about the size of a large turkey
myrtus communis;european shrub with white or rosy flowers followed by black berries
westland pine;timber tree of new zealand having shiny white wood
avocado tree;tropical american tree bearing large pulpy green fruits
cardinal tetra;small bright red and blue aquarium fish from streams in brazil and columbia
eastern cottontail;widely distributed in united states except northwest and far west regions
astragalus glycyphyllos;european perennial
snail darter;3-inch snail-eating perch of the tennessee river
whispering bells;viscid herb of arid or desert habitats of southwestern united states having pendulous yellow flowers
glory fern;named for a country house in barbados where it was discovered
veronica officinalis;common hairy european perennial with pale blue or lilac flowers in axillary racemes
burning bush;eurasian perennial herb with white flowers that emit flammable vapor in hot weather
embryo;an animal organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that in higher forms merge into fetal stages but in lower forms terminate in commencement of larval life
rugel s plantain;north american plantain having reddish leafstalks and broad leaves
stingray;large venomous ray with large barbed spines near the base of a thin whiplike tail capable of inflicting severe wounds
european dogtooth;sturdy european dogtooth with rose to mauve flowers. cultivated in many varieties
scarabaeid beetle;any of numerous species of stout-bodied beetles having heads with horny spikes
wooly blue curls;aromatic wooly-leaved plant of southern california and mexico
borago officinalis;hairy blue-flowered european annual herb long used in herbal medicine and eaten raw as salad greens or cooked like spinach
seed fern;an extinct seed-producing fernlike plant of the order cycadofilicales (or group pteridospermae)
escherichia coli;normally present in intestinal tract of humans and other animals. sometimes pathogenic
mylodontid;a variety of extinct edentate
gyromitra sphaerospora;a gyromitra with a brown puffed up fertile part and a rosy pink fluted stalk and smooth round spores. found on hardwood slash east of the great plains
woodpecker;bird with strong claws and a stiff tail adapted for climbing and a hard chisel-like bill for boring into wood for insects
bean trefoil;shrub with trifoliate leaves and yellow flowers followed by backward curving seed pods. leaves foetid when crushed
zooflagellate;flagellate protozoan lacking photosynthesis and other plant-like characteristics
shoestring fungus;any of several fungi of the genus armillaria that form brown stringy rhizomorphs and cause destructive rot of the roots of some trees such as apples or maples
logwood;spiny shrub or small tree of central america and west indies having bipinnate leaves and racemes of small bright yellow flowers and yielding a hard brown or brownish-red heartwood used in preparing a black dye
pouteria campechiana nervosa;tropical tree of florida and west indies yielding edible fruit
raja laevis;one of the largest skates (to 5 feet). an active skate easy to hook
sycamore fig;thick-branched wide-spreading tree of africa and adjacent southwestern asia often buttressed with branches rising from near the ground. produces cluster of edible but inferior figs on short leafless twigs. the biblical sycamore
brassica napus napobrassica;plant with a thick bulbous edible yellow root. used as food and animal feed
nuphar sagittifolium;of flowing waters of the southeastern united states. may form obstructive mats in streams
sahuaro;extremely large treelike cactus of desert regions of southwestern united states having a thick columnar sparsely branched trunk bearing white flowers and edible red pulpy fruit
bush vetch;european purple-flowered with slender stems. occurs as a weed in hedges
tow headed snake;boa of grasslands and woodlands of western north america. looks and feels like rubber with tail and head of similar shape
mitrula elegans;a discomycete that is 3-8 cm high with an orange to yellow fertile portion and white or pinkish stalks often half in and half out of the water
loquat;evergreen tree of warm regions having fuzzy yellow olive-sized fruit with a large free stone. native to china and japan
tachina fly;bristly fly whose larvae live parasitically in caterpillars and other insects. important in control of noxious insects
buphthalmum salicifolium;hairy eurasian perennial having deep yellow daisies on lax willowy stems. found in the wild in open woodland and on rocky slopes
lime tree;any of various related trees bearing limes
elaphe obsoleta;large harmless shiny black north american snake
cedar;any cedar of the genus cedrus
scorpion weed;any plant of the genus phacelia
true sparrow;any of several small dull-colored singing birds feeding on seeds or insects
bunch grass;any of various grasses of many genera that grow in tufts or clumps rather than forming a sod or mat. chiefly of western united states
trinectes maculatus;useless as food. in coastal streams from maine to texas and panama
prairie orchid;orchid of boggy or wet lands of north central united states having racemes of very fragrant creamy or greenish white flowers
prosopis juliflora;mesquite of gulf coast and caribbean islands from mexico to venezuela
cheddar pink;mat-forming perennial of central europe with large fragrant pink or red flowers
soja;erect bushy hairy annual herb having trifoliate leaves and purple to pink flowers. extensively cultivated for food and forage and soil improvement but especially for its nutritious oil-rich seeds. native to asia
linnet;small finch originally of the western united states and mexico
montagu s harrier;brownish european harrier
monal;brilliantly colored south asian pheasant
morchella angusticeps;a morel whose pitted fertile body is attached to the stalk with little free skirt around it. the fertile body is gray when young and black in old age
conopodium denudatum;a common european plant having edible tubers with the flavor of roasted chestnuts
little leaf fig;australian tree resembling the banyan often planted for ornament. introduced into south africa for brushwood
pompano;any of several deep-bodied food fishes of western atlantic and gulf of mexico
sacred fig;fig tree of india noted for great size and longevity. lacks the prop roots of the banyan
european turkey oak;large deciduous tree of central and southern europe and asia minor having oblong-lanceolate leaves with spiked lobes
sitka willow;small shrubby tree of western north america (alaska to oregon)
inga edulis;ornamental evergreen tree with masses of white flowers. tropical and subtropical america
tufted puffin;n pacific puffin having a large yellow plume over each eye
puppy;young dog
triticum durum;wheat with hard dark-colored kernels high in gluten and used for bread and pasta. grown especially in southern russia, north africa, and northern central north america
chenin blanc;white grape grown especially in california and the lower loire valley of france
peacock;european butterfly having reddish-brown wings each marked with a purple eyespot
herpes zoster virus;a herpes virus that causes shingles
rubia tinctorum;eurasian herb having small yellow flowers and red roots formerly an important source of the dye alizarin
thunnus alalunga;large pelagic tuna the source of most canned tuna. reaches 93 pounds and has long pectoral fins. found worldwide in tropical and temperate waters
ponderosa pine;common and widely distributed tall timber pine of western north america having dark green needles in bunches of 2 to 5 and thick bark with dark brown plates when mature
pachyrhizus erosus;central american twining plant with edible roots and pods. large tubers are eaten raw or cooked especially when young and young pods must be thoroughly cooked. pods and seeds also yield rotenone and oils
diospyros ebenum;tropical tree of southern asia having hard dark-colored heartwood used in cabinetwork
aztec marigold;a stout branching annual with large yellow to orange flower heads. mexico and central america
triton;small usually bright-colored semiaquatic salamanders of north america and europe and north asia
meadow pea;scrambling perennial eurasian wild pea having yellowish flowers and compressed seed pods. cultivated for forage
momot;tropical american bluejay-like bird having greenish and bluish plumage
raffia farinifera;a large feather palm of africa and madagascar having very long pinnatisect fronds yielding a strong commercially important fiber from its leafstalks
koala;sluggish tailless australian arboreal marsupial with gray furry ears and coat. feeds on eucalyptus leaves and bark
scirpus acutus;widely distributed north american sedge having rigid olive green stems
chorizagrotis auxiliaris;noctuid moth larvae that travel in large groups and destroy grains and alfalfa in the plains states
ceiba tree;massive tropical tree with deep ridges on its massive trunk and bearing large pods of seeds covered with silky floss. source of the silky kapok fiber
striped drum;a kind of drumfish
gopher;any of various terrestrial burrowing rodents of old and new worlds. often destroy crops
alsatian;breed of large shepherd dogs used in police work and as a guide for the blind
sea gull;mostly white aquatic bird having long pointed wings and short legs
pinctada margaritifera;tropical marine bivalve found chiefly off eastern asia and pacific coast of north and central america. a major source of pearls
turnip rooted parsley;parsley with smooth leaves and enlarged edible taproot resembling a savory parsnip
bullrush;tall rush with soft erect or arching stems found in eurasia, australia, new zealand, and common in north america
felis catus;any domesticated member of the genus felis
rachycentron canadum;large dark-striped tropical food and game fish related to remoras. found worldwide in coastal to open waters
screw pine;any of various old world tropical palmlike trees having huge prop roots and pineapplelike leaves and edible conelike fruits
sea trout;any of several sciaenid fishes of north american coastal waters
wayfaring tree;vigorous deciduous european treelike shrub common along waysides. red berries turn black
oriole;american songbird. male is black and orange or yellow
fraxinus dipetala;shrubby california ash with showy off-white flowers
eastern chimpanzee;long-haired chimpanzees of east-central africa including the gombe-kasakela population. closely related to the central chimpanzees
pimenta acris;west indian tree. source of bay rum
metroxylon sagu;malaysian palm whose pithy trunk yields sago--a starch used as a food thickener and fabric stiffener. malaya to fiji
mountain nyala;shaggy antelope of mountains of ethiopia
fagus purpurea;variety of european beech with shining purple or copper-colored leaves
shetland sheep dog;small sheepdog developed in the shetland islands and resembling a collie
woodcock snipe;small long-billed american woodcock. prized as a game bird
solanum giganteum;woolly-stemmed biennial arborescent shrub of tropical africa and southern asia having silvery-white prickly branches, clusters of blue or white flowers, and bright red berries resembling holly berries
sweet goldenrod;goldenrod of eastern america (especially blue mountains of pennsylvania) having aromatic leaves from which a medicinal tea is made
agkistrodon contortrix;common coppery brown pit viper of upland eastern united states
bechtel crab;derived from the iowa_crab and cultivated for its large double pink blossoms
fever tree;tall fast-growing timber tree with leaves containing a medicinal oil. young leaves are bluish
hepadnavirus;a group of animal dna viruses including viruses of ducks and woodchucks and squirrels and others as well as the virus causing hepatitis b in humans
halicoeres bivittatus;small wrasse of tropical atlantic
valley pocket gopher;of valleys and mountain meadows of western united states
american star grass;perennial star grass of north america
water dropwort;european poisonous herb having tuberous roots, yellow juice that stains the skin, yellow flowers and foliage resembling celery. all parts extremely poisonous
electric motor;a motor that converts electricity to mechanical work
macroclemys temmincki;large species having three ridges on its back. found in southeastern united states
hygrophorus tennesseensis;a fungus having a brownish sticky cap with a white margin and white gills and an odor of raw potatoes
japanese barnyard millet;coarse annual grass cultivated in japan and southeastern asia for its edible seeds and for forage. important wildlife food in united states
squaw huckleberry;small branching blueberry common in marshy areas of the eastern united states having greenish or yellowish unpalatable berries reputedly eaten by deer
sand viper;harmless north american snake with upturned nose. may spread its head and neck or play dead when disturbed
hibiscus cannabinus;valuable fiber plant of east indies now widespread in cultivation
jungle cat;small asiatic wildcat
slipper spurge;any of several tropical american shrubby succulant plants resembling cacti but having foot-shaped bracts
shinleaf;north american evergreen with small pinkish bell-shaped flowers and oblong leaves used formerly for shinplasters
falco peregrinus;a widely distributed falcon formerly used in falconry
sage hen;large grouse of sagebrush regions of north america
firewheel;annual of central united states having showy long-stalked yellow flower heads marked with scarlet or purple in the center
lophius americanus;fishes having large mouths with a wormlike filament attached for luring prey
climbing hemp vine;herb of tropical america having vanilla-scented flowers. climbs up trees
chinese scholar tree;handsome round-headed deciduous tree having compound dark green leaves and profuse panicles of fragrant creamy-white flowers. china and japan
pterocles indicus;sandgrouse of india
amaranthus cruentus;tall showy tropical american annual having hairy stems and long spikes of usually red flowers above leaves deeply flushed with purple. seeds often used as cereal
winged everlasting;australian plant widely cultivated for its beautiful silvery-white blooms with bright yellow centers on long winged stems
sorghum bicolor;important for human and animal food. growth habit and stem form similar to indian corn but having sawtooth-edged leaves
restharrow;european woody plant having pink flowers and unifoliolate leaves and long tough roots. spreads by underground runners
lesser anteater;small toothless anteater with prehensile tale and four-clawed forelimbs. of tropical south and central america
european cuckoo;common european cuckoo having a distinctive two-note call. lays eggs in the nests of other birds
storksbill;any of various plants of the genus erodium
ecballium elaterium;mediterranean vine having oblong fruit that when ripe expels its seeds and juice violently when touched
crowberry;a low evergreen shrub with small purple flowers and black berrylike fruit
yellow bass;north american freshwater bass resembling the larger marine striped bass
dipteron;insects having usually a single pair of functional wings (anterior pair) with the posterior pair reduced to small knobbed structures and mouth parts adapted for sucking or lapping or piercing
lhasa;a breed of terrier having a long heavy coat raised in tibet as watchdogs
jamaican cherry;a fast-growing tropical american evergreen having white flowers and white fleshy edible fruit. bark yields a silky fiber used in cordage and wood is valuable for staves
pinus cembroides;small 2- or 3-needled pinon of mexico and southern texas
jungle fowl;small asiatic wild bird. believed to be ancestral to domestic fowl
sedge wren;small european warbler that breeds among reeds and wedges and winters in africa
european sandpiper;a variety of sandpiper
strawberry tomato;stout hairy annual of eastern north america with sweet yellow fruits
albatrellus dispansus;a rare fungus having a large (up to 14 inches wide) yellow fruiting body with multiple individual caps and a broad central stalk and a fragrant odor
virginia snakeroot;birthwort of the eastern united states woodlands
spindleberry;any shrubby trees or woody vines of the genus euonymus having showy usually reddish berries
mary jane;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
wireworm;wormlike larva of various elaterid_beetles. feeds on roots of many crop plants
auricula;yellow-flowered primrose native to alps. commonly cultivated
sacred lotus;native to eastern asia. widely cultivated for its large pink or white flowers
mouse deer;very small hornless deer-like ruminant of tropical asia and west africa
mule s ears;balsamic-resinous herb with clumps of lanceolate leaves and stout leafy stems ending in large deep yellow flowers on long stalks. northwestern united states
thoroughbred;a pedigreed animal of unmixed lineage. used especially of horses
english sole;popular pale brown food flatfish of the pacific coast of north america
dianthus caryophyllus;eurasian plant with pink to purple-red spice-scented usually double flowers. widely cultivated in many varieties and many colors
odonate;large primitive predatory aquatic insect having two pairs of membranous wings
brassica kaber;weedy eurasian plant often a pest in grain fields
spiked loosestrife;marsh herb with a long spike of purple flowers. originally of europe but now rampant in eastern united states
woodhewer;any of numerous south and central american birds with a curved bill and stiffened tail feathers that climb and feed like woodpeckers
arrow grass;tufted perennial found in shallow water or marshland. sometimes poisons livestock
garden heliotrope;tall rhizomatous plant having very fragrant flowers and rhizomes used medicinally
alcea rosea;plant with terminal racemes of showy white to pink or purple flowers. the english cottage garden hollyhock
snow bunting;white arctic bunting
cnemidophorus sexlineatus;very swift lizard of eastern and central united states
java finch;small finch-like indonesian weaverbird that frequents rice fields
melolontha melolontha;any of various large european beetles destructive to vegetation as both larvae and adult
australian sumac;evergreen of australia yielding a dark yellow wood
houseplant;any of a variety of plants grown indoors for decorative purposes
rowan;eurasian tree with orange-red berrylike fruits
larus marinus;white gull having a black back and wings
kick start;a starter (as on a motorcycle) that is activated with the foot and the weight of the body
brash oak;small deciduous tree of eastern and central united states having dark green lyrate pinnatifid leaves and tough moisture-resistant wood used especially for fence posts
rose moss;widely cultivated in many varieties for its fleshy mosslike foliage and profusion of brightly colored flowers
hop clover;prostrate european herb with small yellow flowers and curved black pods. naturalized in north america
gilded flicker;southwestern united states bird like the yellow-shafted flicker but lacking the red neck
mandrake;a plant of southern europe and north africa having purple flowers, yellow fruits and a forked root formerly thought to have magical powers
gallinula chloropus cachinnans;north american dark bluish-gray gallinule
parakeet;any of numerous small slender long-tailed parrots
pond pine;large 3-needled pine of sandy swamps of southeastern united states. needles longer than those of the northern pitch pine
capsicum frutescens;plant bearing very hot medium-sized oblong red peppers. grown principally in the gulf coast states for production of hot sauce
myrobalan plum;small asiatic tree bearing edible red or yellow fruit. used in europe as budding stock
mellivora capensis;nocturnal badger-like carnivore of wooded regions of africa and southern asia
chimney swift;american swift that nests in e.g. unused chimneys
asclepias meadii;milkweed of central north america. a threatened species
ptloris paradisea;velvety black australian bird of paradise with green and purple iridescence on head and tail
genyonemus lineatus;small silvery marine food fish found off california
spergularia rubra;prostrate weedy herb with tiny pink flowers. widespread throughout europe and asia on sand dunes and heath and coastal cliffs. naturalized in eastern north america
banksia rose;chinese evergreen climbing rose with yellow or white single flowers
cnidoscolus urens;a stinging herb of tropical america
german rampion;a coarse biennial of eastern north america with yellow flowers that open in the evening. naturalized in europe
calycophyllum candidissimum;source of a tough elastic wood
blarina brevicauda;north american shrew with tail less than half its body length
barbary ape;tailless macaque of rocky cliffs and forests of northwestern africa and gibraltar
impatiens capensis;north american annual plant with usually yellow or orange flowers. grows chiefly on wet rather acid soil
common spoonbill;pure white crested spoonbill of southern eurasia and northeastern africa
trichodesmium;large colonial bacterium common in tropical open-ocean waters. important in carbon and nitrogen fixation
laughing gull;small black-headed european gull
gloriosa;any plant of the genus gloriosa of tropical africa and asia. a perennial herb climbing by means of tendrils at leaf tips having showy yellow to red or purple flowers. all parts are poisonous
nutmeg;east indian tree widely cultivated in the tropics for its aromatic seed. source of two spices: nutmeg and mace
euphorbia esula;tall european perennial naturalized and troublesome as a weed in eastern north america
rudderfish;fish having the habit of following ships. found in north and south american coastal waters
camp robber;gray jay of northern north america with black-capped head and no crest. noted for boldness in thievery
herb christopher;a plant of the genus actaea having acrid poisonous berries
verbesina virginica;tall perennial herb having clusters of white flowers. the eastern united states
luffa acutangula;loofah of pakistan. widely cultivated throughout tropics
pelycosaur;large primitive reptile having a tall spinal sail. of the permian or late paleozoic in europe and north america
rivetter;a machine for driving rivets
bombycid moth;moderate-sized asiatic moth whose larvae feed on mulberry leaves and produce silk
feverroot;coarse weedy american perennial herb with large usually perfoliate leaves and purple or dull red flowers
strep;spherical gram-positive bacteria occurring in pairs or chains. cause e.g. scarlet fever and tonsillitis
hemiepiphyte;a plant that is an epiphyte for part of its life
diapheromera femorata;a variety of stick insect
hymenopterous insect;insects having two pairs of membranous wings and an ovipositor specialized for stinging or piercing
sand dab;small food fishes of the pacific coast of north america
spheniscus demersus;small penguin of south america and southern africa with a braying call
soursop;small tropical american tree bearing large succulent slightly acid fruit
medlar;small deciduous tree of southern africa having edible fruit
australian grass tree;any of several australian evergreen perennials having short thick woody stems crowned by a tuft of grasslike foliage and yielding acaroid resins
great bowerbird;large bowerbird of northern australia
painted nettle;perennial aromatic herb of southeastern asia having large usually bright-colored or blotched leaves and spikes of blue-violet flowers. sometimes placed in genus solenostemon
tragelaphus eurycerus;large forest antelope of central africa having a reddish-brown coat with white stripes and spiral horns
triticum dicoccum;hard red wheat grown especially in russia and germany. in united states as stock feed
zoysia japonica;lawn grass common in china and japan. grown also in united states
papaver somniferum;southwestern asian herb with grayish leaves and white or reddish flowers. source of opium
sulfur paintbrush;plant of moist highland meadows having ragged clusters of pale yellow flowers
black eyed susan vine;tropical african climbing plant having yellow flowers with a dark purple center
wild cavy;south american cavy. possibly ancestral to the domestic guinea pig
california black walnut;medium-sized tree with somewhat aromatic compound leaves and edible nuts
tree cotton;small bushy tree grown on islands of the caribbean and off the southern united states atlantic coast and yielding cotton with unusually long silky fibers
sandbur;grass of the eastern united states and tropical america having spikelets enclosed in prickly burs
gebang palm;large-leaved palm of malay to philippines and northern australia. leaves used for thatching or plaiting into containers
beetle;insect having biting mouthparts and front wings modified to form horny covers overlying the membranous rear wings
avadavat;red asian weaverbirds often kept as cage birds
geastrum coronatum;an earthstar with a bluish spore sac and a purplish brown gleba. at maturity the outer layer splits into rays that bend backward and elevate the spore sac
wirehaired terrier;a terrier with wiry hair
freshwater bass;north american food and game fish
rough legged hawk;large hawk of the northern hemisphere that feeds chiefly on small rodents and is beneficial to farmers
striped gentian;a perennial marsh ventian of eastern north america
blackthorn;a thorny eurasian bush with plumlike fruits
boar thistle;european thistle with rather large heads and prickly leaves. extensively naturalized as a weed in the united states
clavicipitaceae;any of various mushrooms of the class ascomycete
japanese ivy;asiatic vine with three-lobed leaves and purple berries
genista hispanica;erect shrub of southwestern europe having racemes of golden yellow flowers
bongo;large forest antelope of central africa having a reddish-brown coat with white stripes and spiral horns
nutmet geranium;geranium with round fragrant leaves and small white flowers
mountain fern;common european mountain fern having fragrant lemon or balsam scented fronds
gooseneck loosestrife;a variety of the loosestrife herb
pot;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
governor s plum;small shrubby tree of madagascar cultivated in tropical regions as a hedge plant and for its deep red acid fruits resembling small plums
ipomoea purpurea;pantropical annual climbing herb with funnel-shaped blue, purple, pink or white flowers
flying fish;tropical marine fishes having enlarged winglike fins used for brief gliding flight
oyster fungus;edible agaric with a soft grayish cap growing in shelving masses on dead wood
primula auricula;yellow-flowered primrose native to alps. commonly cultivated
male berry;deciduous much-branched shrub with dense downy panicles of small bell-shaped white flowers
madwort;any garden plant of the genus alyssum having clusters of small yellow or white flowers
rusty grackle;north american blackbird whose bluish-black plumage is rusty-edged in the fall
tulip gentian;one of the most handsome prairie wildflowers laving large erect bell-shaped bluish flowers. of moist places in prairies and fields from eastern colorado and nebraska south to new mexico and texas
sheldrake;old world gooselike duck slightly larger than a mallard with variegated mostly black-and-white plumage and a red bill
gila monster;large orange and black lizard of southwestern united states. not dangerous unless molested
black fox;red fox in the color phase when its pelt is mostly black
tarsius glis;a variety of tarsier
white bead;north american herb with white poisonous berries
kanaf;valuable fiber plant of east indies now widespread in cultivation
palfrey;(archaic) especially a light saddle horse for a woman
conger;large somber-colored scaleless marine eel found in temperate and tropical coastal waters. some used for food
woodbine;european twining honeysuckle with fragrant red and yellow-white flowers
tunga penetrans;small tropical flea. the fertile female burrows under the skin of the host including humans
pacemaker;a horse used to set the pace in racing
pink cockatoo;white australian cockatoo with roseate tinged plumage
abelmoschus moschatus;bushy herb of tropical asia grown for its yellow or pink to scarlet hibiscuslike blooms
cuttlefish;ten-armed oval-bodied cephalopod with narrow fins as long as the body and a large calcareous internal shell
apricot tree;asian tree having clusters of usually white blossoms and edible peachlike fruit
white honeysuckle;bushy honeysuckle with twining branches and white or yellow-white flowers. southern united states
combretum;any of numerous shrubs or small trees of the genus combretum having spikes of small flowers
computer;a machine for performing calculations automatically
steatornis caripensis;nocturnal fruit-eating bird of south america that has fatty young yielding an oil that is used instead of butter
corticium solani;fungus causing bottom rot in lettuce
silky oak;medium to tall fast-growing tree with orange flowers and feathery bipinnate leaves silky-hairy beneath. eastern australia
brassica oleracea gemmifera;plant grown for its stout stalks of edible small green heads resembling diminutive cabbages
white heather;heath of mountains of western united states having bell-shaped white flowers
sand cherry;small straggling american cherry growing on sandy soil and having minute scarcely edible purplish-black fruit
corn earworm;larva of a noctuid moth. highly destructive to esp. corn and cotton and tomato crops
white tailed deer;common north american deer. tail has a white underside
micropterus salmoides;a large black bass. the angle of the jaw falls behind the eye
our lady s bedstraw;common yellow-flowered perennial bedstraw. north america and europe and asia
sylvia communis;grayish-brown old world warbler with a white throat and underparts
five flowered gentian;gentian of eastern north america having clusters of bristly blue flowers
water chestnut;chinese sedge yielding edible bulb-shaped tubers
coco;tall palm tree bearing coconuts as fruits. widely planted throughout the tropics
diving petrel;any of several small diving birds of s hemisphere seas. somewhat resemble auks
carniolan bee;grayish quiet-dispositioned highly productive european honeybee
torreya californica;california evergreen having a fruit resembling a nutmeg but with a strong turpentine flavor
buffalo clover;low-growing annual herb of southwestern united states (texas) having silky foliage and blue flowers
lobed spleenwort;a spleenwort of eastern and southern united states
citrus tree;any of numerous tropical usually thorny evergreen trees of the genus citrus having leathery evergreen leaves and widely cultivated for their juicy edible fruits having leathery aromatic rinds
woodland oxeye;hairy eurasian perennial having deep yellow daisies on lax willowy stems. found in the wild in open woodland and on rocky slopes
deerhound;very large and tall rough-coated dog bred for hunting deer. known as the royal dog of scotland
vine;weak-stemmed plant that derives support from climbing, twining, or creeping along a surface
silverspot;butterfly with silver spots on the underside of the hind wings
univalve;a class of mollusks typically having a one-piece coiled shell and flattened muscular foot with a head bearing stalked eyes
botrychium virginianum;american fern whose clustered sporangia resemble a snake's rattle
american frogbit;american plant with roundish heart-shaped or kidney-shaped leaves. usually rooted in muddy bottoms of ponds and ditches
lalthyrus tingitanus;north african annual resembling the sweet pea having showy but odorless flowers
begonia socotrana;semituberous begonia having peltate leaves and rose-pink flowers. yemen
fumaria claviculata;annual vine with decompound leaves and racemes of yellow and pink flowers
subalpine fir;medium-tall rocky mountain timber tree having a narrow-conic tocolumnar crown
pteropus hypomelanus;a variety of fruit bat
boulder fern;fern of eastern north america with pale green fronds and hay-like aroma
paprika;plant bearing large mild thick-walled usually bell-shaped fruits. the principal salad peppers
phaseolus caracalla;perennial tropical american vine cultivated for its racemes of showy yellow and purple flowers having the corolla keel coiled like a snail shell. sometimes placed in genus phaseolus
venomous lizard;any of two or three large heavy-bodied lizards. only known venomous lizards
salvia farinacea;texas sage having intensely blue flowers
pusly;weedy trailing mat-forming herb with bright yellow flowers cultivated for its edible mildly acid leaves eaten raw or cooked especially in indian and greek and middle eastern cuisine. cosmopolitan
cockle;common edible european bivalve mollusk having a rounded shell with radiating ribs
fritillaria recurva;western united states herb with scarlet and yellow narrow bell-shaped flowers
steganopus tricolor;breeds on the northern great plains of canada
mocker;long-tailed gray-and-white songbird of the southern united states able to mimic songs of other birds
annona glabra;small evergreen tree of tropical america with edible fruit. used chiefly as grafting stock
rockrose;any of numerous varieties of helianthemums having small roselike yellow or white or reddish flowers
blue whale;largest mammal ever known. bluish-gray migratory whalebone whale mostly of southern hemisphere
rouge plant;bushy houseplant having white to pale pink flowers followed by racemes of scarlet berries. tropical americas
swamp pine;any of several pines that prefer or endure moist situations such as loblolly pine or longleaf pine
purple virgin s bower;climber of northeastern north america having waxy purplish-blue flowers
bushtit;active gray titmice of western north america
black capped chickadee;chickadee having a dark crown
damselfly;slender non-stinging insect similar to but smaller than the dragonfly but having wings folded when at rest
razor clam;marine clam having a long narrow curved thin shell
creeping zinnia;low-branching leafy annual with zinnialike flower heads. southwestern united states and mexico to guatemala
stoneroot;erect perennial strong-scented with serrate pointed leaves and a loose panicle of yellowish flowers. the eastern united states
perissodactyl;placental mammals having hooves with an odd number of toes on each foot
gar;elongate european surface-dwelling predacious fishes with long toothed jaws. abundant in coastal waters
salp;minute floating marine tunicate having a transparent body with an opening at each end
snowberry;deciduous shrub of western north america having spikes of pink flowers followed by round white berries
dicentra spectabilis;garden plant having deep-pink drooping heart-shaped flowers
western crab apple;wild crab apple of western united states with fragrant pink flowers
hoopoe;any of several crested old world birds with a slender down-curving bill
emilia sagitta;tropical asiatic annual cultivated for its small tassel-shaped heads of scarlet flowers
gazella subgutturosa;a kind of gazelle
red beech;north american forest tree with light green leaves and edible nuts
american maidenhair fern;hardy palmately branched north american fern with divergent recurved branches borne on lustrous dark reddish stipes
common booklouse;a variety of booklouse
wilson s blackcap;yellow wood warbler with a black crown
ulmus parvifolia;small fast-growing tree native to asia. widely grown as shelterbelts and hedges
tribulus terestris;tropical annual procumbent poisonous subshrub having fruit that splits into five spiny nutlets. serious pasture weed
rock elm;tall widely distributed elm of eastern north america
slender spike rush;fine-leaved aquatic spike rush. popular as aerator for aquariums
trumpetwood;tropical american tree with large peltate leaves and hollow stems
two toed anteater;squirrel-sized south american toothless anteater with long silky golden fur
clianthus puniceus;evergreen shrub with scarlet to white claw- or beak-like flowers. new zealand
java sparrow;small finch-like indonesian weaverbird that frequents rice fields
tarahumara frog;mexican frog found within a jump of two or water
skipjack tuna;oceanic schooling tuna of considerable value in pacific but less in atlantic. reaches 75 pounds. very similar to if not the same as oceanic bonito
bouvier des flandres;rough-coated breed used originally in belgium for herding and guarding cattle
bamboo palm;a palm of the genus raffia
brachychiton rupestris;large tree of queensland australia having cream-colored flowers blotched with red inside. sometimes placed in genus sterculia
ground pine;low-growing annual with yellow flowers dotted red. faintly aromatic of pine resin. europe, british isles and north africa
martynia;sprawling annual or perennial herb of central america and west indies having creamy-white to red-purple bell-shaped flowers followed by unusual horned fruit
golden honey plant;perennial herb with showy yellow flowers. the eastern united states
amaryllis;bulbous plant having showy white to reddish flowers
kiwi;nocturnal flightless bird of new zealand having a long neck and stout legs. only surviving representative of the order apterygiformes
hemlock;large branching biennial herb native to eurasia and africa and adventive in north america having large fernlike leaves and white flowers. usually found in damp habitats. all parts extremely poisonous
rosa banksia;chinese evergreen climbing rose with yellow or white single flowers
indri indri;large short-tailed lemur of madagascar having thick silky fur in black and white and fawn
crab eating opossum;south american opossum
permanency;the property of being able to exist for an indefinite durationthe property of being able to exist for an indefinite duration
zantedeschia rehmanii;calla having a rose-colored spathe
bottle grass;european foxtail naturalized in north america. often a troublesome weed
panicum miliaceum;extensively cultivated in europe and asia for its grain and in united states sometimes for forage
showy milkweed;milkweed of southern north america having large starry purple-pink flowers
nasturtium;any tropical american plant of the genus tropaeolum having pungent juice and long-spurred yellow to red flowers
albizia saman;large ornamental tropical american tree withbipinnate leaves and globose clusters of flowers with crimson stamens and sweet-pulp seed pods eaten by cattle
weeping spruce;medium-sized spruce of california and oregon having pendulous branches
indian buffalo;upland buffalo of eastern asia where true water buffaloes do not thrive. used for draft and milk
phylloporus boletinoides;a fungus with a broadly convex brown cap gill-like pores that extend part way down the stalk
cherry tomato;plant bearing small red to yellow fruit
mining bee;a bee that is a a member of the genus andrena
bayberry;deciduous aromatic shrub of eastern north america with gray-green wax-coated berries
octopod;eight-armed cephalopod lacking an internal shell
siris tree;large spreading old world tree having large leaves and globose clusters of greenish-yellow flowers and long seed pods that clatter in the wind
turkey oak;large deciduous tree of central and southern europe and asia minor having oblong-lanceolate leaves with spiked lobes
malus pumila;native eurasian tree widely cultivated in many varieties for its firm rounded edible fruits
garden rhubarb;long-cultivated hybrid of rheum palmatum. stems often cooked in pies or as sauce or preserves
spider;predatory arachnid that usually has silk-spinning organs at the back end of the body. they spin silk to make cocoons for eggs or traps for prey
centrolobium robustum;brazilian tree with handsomely marked wood
cactus wren;large harsh-voiced american wren of arid regions of the united states southwest and mexico
ground pine;any of several club mosses having long creeping stems and erect branches
serinus canaria;native to the canary islands and azores. popular usually yellow cage bird noted for its song
pewit;small olive-colored woodland flycatchers of eastern north america
viola cornuta;european viola with an unusually long corolla spur
girasol;tall perennial with hairy stems and leaves. widely cultivated for its large irregular edible tubers
robinia pseudoacacia;large thorny tree of eastern and central united states having pinnately compound leaves and drooping racemes of white flowers. widely naturalized in many varieties in temperate regions
blackbird;common black european thrush
totaliser;registers bets and divides the total amount bet among those who won
scorpionweed;any plant of the genus phacelia
macrotyloma uniflorum;twining herb of old world tropics cultivated in india for food and fodder. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
synagrops bellus;small marine fish with black mouth and gill cavity
coffea arabica;shrubby tree of northeastern tropical africa widely cultivated in tropical or near tropical regions for its seed which form most of the commercial coffee
dryas octopetala;creeping evergreen white-flowered shrub of matlike habit widely distributed in northern portions of eurasia and north america
sour gum;columnar tree of eastern north america having horizontal limbs and small leaves that emerge late in spring and have brilliant color in early fall
waterdog;any of several large aquatic salamanders
rock wren;short-tailed bird resembling a wren
burro deer;long-eared deer of western north america with two-pronged antlers
iliamna acerifolia;perennial of northwestern united states and western canada resembling a hollyhock and having white or pink flowers
common limpet;marine limpet
euphorbia milii;somewhat climbing bushy spurge of madagascar having long woody spiny stems with few leaves and flowers with scarlet bracts
perognathus hispidus;large stiff-haired rodent of shortgrass prairies of united states
rhyacotriton olympicus;small large-eyed semiaquatic salamander of the united states northwest
loxostege similalis;moth whose larvae are garden webworms
rose mallow;showy shrub of salt marshes of the eastern united states having large rose-colored flowers
polemonium caeruleum;pinnate-leaved european perennial having bright blue or white flowers
red osier;common north american shrub with reddish purple twigs and white flowers
lycopodium complanatum;a variety of clubmoss
prairie vole;typical vole of the extended prairie region of central united states and southern canada
birdseed grass;canary islands grass. seeds used as feed for caged birds
megalosaurus;gigantic carnivorous bipedal dinosaur of the jurassic or early cretaceous in europe
acrostichum aureum;stout tropical swamp fern (especially tropical america) having large fronds with golden yellow sporangia covering the undersides
beach goldenrod;vigorous showy goldenrod common along eastern and gulf coasts of north america
oligochaete worm;hermaphroditic terrestrial and aquatic annelids having bristles borne singly along the length of the body
satin leaf;tropical american timber tree with dark hard heavy wood and small plumlike purple fruit
lemonwood;south african evergreen having hard tough wood
boletus roxanae;a fungus with a rusty red cap and a white pore surface that becomes yellow with age and a pale yellow stalk
medusa;one of two forms that coelenterates take: is the free-swimming sexual stage in the life cycle of a coelenterate and has a gelatinous umbrella-shaped body and tentacles
narrow beech fern;beech fern of north america and eurasia
guitarfish;primitive tropical bottom-dwelling ray with a guitar-shaped body
betel;asian pepper plant whose dried leaves are chewed with betel nut (seed of the betel palm) by southeast asians
cephalaspid;extinct jawless fish of the devonian with armored head
bigarade;any of various common orange trees yielding sour or bitter fruit. used as grafting stock
hyacinth;any of numerous bulbous perennial herbs
kaury;tall timber tree of new zealand having white straight-grained wood
yellowtail snapper;superior food fish of the tropical atlantic and caribbean with broad yellow stripe along the sides and on the tail
cochlearia officinalis;a widely distributed arctic cress reputed to have value in treatment or prevention of scurvy. a concentrated source of vitamin c
goujon;large catfish of central united states having a flattened head and projecting jaw
weeping beech;variety of european beech with pendulous limbs
citrus limetta;lemon tree having fruit with a somewhat insipid sweetish pulp
night bird;any bird associated with night: owl. nightingale. nighthawk. etc
ranunculus bulbosus;perennial old world buttercup with golden to sulphur yellow flowers in late spring to early summer. naturalized in north america
rose root;eurasian mountain plant with fleshy pink-tipped leaves and a cluster of yellow flowers
linosyris vulgaris;early-flowering perennial of southern and southeastern europe with flower heads resembling those of goldenrod
rhododendron californicum;medium-sized rhododendron of pacific coast of north america having large rosy brown-spotted flowers
lapdog;a dog small and tame enough to be held in the lap
anas querquedula;small eurasian teal
cicala;stout-bodied insect with large membranous wings. male has drum-like organs for producing a high-pitched drone
clytocybe alba;a large white agaric. edible but not palatable
white aspen;a poplar that is widely cultivated in the united states. has white bark and leaves with whitish undersurfaces
spring squill;european scilla with small blue or purple flowers
pinus monophylla;pinon of southwestern united states having solitary needles and often many stems. important as a nut pine
chatterbox;orchid growing along streams or ponds of western north america having leafy stems and 1 greenish-brown and pinkish flower in the axil of each upper leaf
moonflower;pantropical climber having white fragrant nocturnal flowers
massasauga;pygmy rattlesnake found in moist areas from the great lakes to mexico. feeds on mice and small amphibians
passenger pigeon;gregarious north american migratory pigeon now extinct
mazzard cherry;wild or seedling sweet cherry used as stock for grafting
peacock flower fence;east indian tree with racemes of yellow-white flowers. cultivated as an ornamental
cuculus canorus;common european cuckoo having a distinctive two-note call. lays eggs in the nests of other birds
mint geranium;tansy-scented eurasian perennial herb with buttonlike yellow flowers. used as potherb or salad green and sometimes for potpourri or tea or flavoring. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
ruddy turnstone;common arctic turnstone that winters south to south america and australia
elymus arenarius;a dune grass of the pacific seacoast used as a sand binder
sweet balm;bushy perennial old world mint having small white or yellowish flowers and fragrant lemon-flavored leaves. a garden escapee in northern europe and north america
mandragora officinarum;a plant of southern europe and north africa having purple flowers, yellow fruits and a forked root formerly thought to have magical powers
florida bean;annual semi-woody vine of asia having long clusters of purplish flowers and densely hairy pods. cultivated in southern united states for green manure and grazing
joint fir;jointed and nearly leafless desert shrub having reduced scalelike leaves and reddish fleshy seeds
aubergine;hairy upright herb native to southeastern asia but widely cultivated for its large glossy edible fruit commonly used as a vegetable
meadow fern;fern of northeastern north america
flowering wintergreen;common trailing perennial milkwort of eastern north america having leaves like wintergreen and usually rosy-purple flowers with winged sepals
salix lucida;common north american shrub with shiny lanceolate leaves
danaus plexippus;large migratory american butterfly having deep orange wings with black and white markings. the larvae feed on milkweed
thorny skate;cold-water bottom fish with spines on the back. to 40 inches
fritillary;any liliaceous plant of the genus fritillaria having nodding variously colored flowers
notebook computer;a small compact computer
calochortus amabilis;globe lily having open branched clusters of clear yellow egg-shaped flowers. northern california
congenator;an animal or plant that bears a relationship to another (as related by common descent or by membership in the same genus)
western blind snake;burrows among roots of shrubs and beneath rocks in desert and rocky hillside areas and beach sand of western united states
wild rye;any of several grasses of the genus elymus
haoma;leafless east indian vine. its sour milky juice formerly used to make an intoxicating drink
larva;the immature free-living form of most invertebrates and amphibians and fish which at hatching from the egg is fundamentally unlike its parent and must metamorphose
aramus guarauna;wading bird of south and central america
vegetable sheep;perennial prostrate mat-forming herb with hoary woolly foliage
leipoa;australian moundbird. incubates eggs naturally in sandy mounds
matricaria chamomilla;annual eurasian herb similar in fragrance and medicinal uses to chamomile though taste is more bitter and effect is considered inferior
cup fungus;any fungus that is a member of the subclass discomycetes
rust;any of various fungi causing rust disease in plants
umbrella arum;foul-smelling somewhat fleshy tropical plant of southeastern asia cultivated for its edible corms or in the greenhouse for its large leaves and showy dark red spathe surrounding a large spadix
western buttercup;perennial of western north america
phoronid;hermaphrodite wormlike animal living in mud of the sea bottom
common flat pea;low spreading evergreen shrub of southern australia having triangular to somewhat heart-shaped foliage and orange-yellow flowers followed by flat winged pods
wild horse;undomesticated or feral domestic horse
homo erectus;extinct species of primitive hominid with upright stature but small brain. formerly pithecanthropus erectus
samoyede;siberian breed of white or cream dog of the spitz family
bonobo;small chimpanzee of swamp forests in zaire. a threatened species
naja haje;cobra used by the pharaohs as a symbol of their power over life and death
common raccoon;north american raccoon
toy spaniel;a very small spaniel
solanum commersonii;south american potato vine
heath aster;common much-branched north american perennial with heathlike foliage and small starry white flowers
veronica beccabunga;european plant having low-lying stems with blue flowers often pink-flushed. sparsely naturalized in north america
jacamar;tropical american insectivorous bird having a long sharp bill and iridescent green or bronze plumage
seismosaur;huge herbivorous dinosaur of the cretaceous found in western north america
atlantic herring;important food fish. found in enormous shoals in north atlantic
cape hyacinth;southern african herb with white bell-shaped flowers
verbascum thapsus;tall-stalked very woolly mullein with densely packed yellow flowers. ancient greeks and romans dipped the stalks in tallow for funeral torches
armored sea robin;sea robins having bony scutes on the body and barbels on the chin. found mostly on the continental slope
flaming poppy;california wild poppy with bright red flowers
morlett s crocodile;a variety of crocodile
bur oak;medium to large deciduous oak of central and eastern north america with ovoid acorns deeply immersed in large fringed cups. yields tough close-grained wood
acheta domestica;lives in human dwellings. naturalized in parts of america
annona diversifolia;tropical american tree grown in southern united states having a whitish pink-tinged fruit
hemerobiid fly;small dark-colored lacewing fly
fenusa pusilla;small black sawfly native to europe but established in eastern united states. larvae mine the leaves of birches causing serious defoliation
prancer;a mettlesome or fiery horse
collared peccary;dark gray peccary with an indistinct white collar. of semi desert areas of mexico and southwestern united states
european cranberry bush;deciduous thicket-forming old world shrub with clusters of white flowers and small bright red berries
rorippa amphibia;perennial herb found on streams and riversides throughout europe except extreme north and mediterranean. sometimes placed in genus nasturtium
satin bowerbird;of southeast australia. male is glossy violet blue. female is light gray-green
west coast hemlock;tall evergreen of western north america. commercially important timber tree
lecanopteris;any of several bizarre ferns of the genus lecanopteris having swollen hollow rhizomes that provide homes for symbiotic ants
aix sponsa;showy north american duck that nests in hollow trees
bog candles;orchid with spikes of many fragrant white flowers on erect leafy stems. of wet or boggy ground through most of the west and northern north america
rhodes grass;perennial grass of south africa introduced into united states. cultivated as forage grass in dry regions
malus fusca;small tree or shrub of western united states having white blossoms and tiny yellow or red fruit
salientian;any of various tailless stout-bodied amphibians with long hind limbs for leaping. semiaquatic and terrestrial species
iris kaempferi;iris native to japan having large showy flowers
common seal;small spotted seal of coastal waters of the northern hemisphere
allium acuminatum;a common north american wild onion with a strong onion odor and an umbel of pink flowers atop a leafless stalk. british columbia to california and arizona and east to wyoming and colorado
cocos nucifera;tall palm tree bearing coconuts as fruits. widely planted throughout the tropics
mountain pine;low shrubby pine of central europe with short bright green needles in bunches of two
blue elderberry;shrub or small tree of western united states having white flowers and blue berries. fruit used in wines and jellies
charred pancake cup;a common name for a variety of sarcosomataceae
saxicolous plant;plants growing among rocks
butterfly ray;short-tailed broad-finned stingray
roridula;either of 2 species of the genus roridula. south african viscid perennial low-growing woody shrubs
lavandula stoechas;shrubby grayish lavender of southwestern europe having usually reddish-purple flowers
mule fat;california shrub with slender leafy shoots that are important browse for mule deer
jacquard loom;a loom with an attachment for forming openings for the passage of the shuttle between the warp threads
common alder;medium-sized tree with brown-black bark and woody fruiting catkins. leaves are hairy beneath
desert lynx;of deserts of northern africa and southern asia
catbird;north american songbird whose call resembles a cat's mewing
poison arrow plant;medium-sized shrubby tree of south africa having thick leathery evergreen leaves and white or pink flowers and globose usually two-seeded purplish black fruits
rhodanthe manglesii;australian annual everlasting having light pink nodding flower heads. sometimes placed in genus helipterum
atlantic spiny dogfish;destructive dogfish of american and european atlantic coastal waters. widely used in anatomy classes
diplococcus pneumoniae;bacteria causing pneumonia
american flying squirrel;new world flying squirrels
leppy;motherless calf in a range herd of cattle
german shepherd;breed of large shepherd dogs used in police work and as a guide for the blind
rosa eglanteria;eurasian rose with prickly stems and fragrant leaves and bright pink flowers followed by scarlet hips
goose tansy;low-growing perennial having leaves silvery beneath. northern united states. europe. asia
blue green algae;predominantly photosynthetic prokaryotic organisms containing a blue pigment in addition to chlorophyll. occur singly or in colonies in diverse habitats. important as phytoplankton
arab;a spirited graceful and intelligent riding horse native to arabia
erigeron pulchellus;common perennial of eastern north america having flowers with usually violet-purple rays
pyralid;usually tropical slender-bodied long-legged moth whose larvae are crop pests
capelin;very small northern fish. forage for sea birds and marine mammals and other fishes
common bamboo;extremely vigorous bamboo having thin-walled culms striped green and yellow. so widely cultivated that native area is uncertain
primula elatior;eurasian primrose with yellow flowers clustered in a one-sided umbel
earthstar;any fungus of the family geastraceae. in form suggesting a puffball whose outer peridium splits into the shape of a star
mountain tea;creeping shrub of eastern north america having white bell-shaped flowers followed by spicy red berrylike fruit and shiny aromatic leaves that yield wintergreen oil
english weed;south african bulbous wood sorrel with showy yellow flowers
virginia oyster;common edible oyster of atlantic coast of north america
allium fistulosum;asiatic onion with slender bulbs. used as early green onions
tahoka daisy;wild aster with fernlike leaves and flower heads with very narrow bright purple rays. alberta to texas and mexico
roccus saxatilis;marine food and game fish with dark longitudinal stripes. migrates upriver to spawn. sometimes placed in the genus morone (morone saxatilis)
limber pine;western north american pine with long needles and very flexible limbs and dark-gray furrowed bark
beaked parsley;aromatic annual old world herb cultivated for its finely divided and often curly leaves for use especially in soups and salads
alpine milk vetch;perennial of mountainous areas of eurasia and north america
bonnet monkey;indian macaque with a bonnet-like tuft of hair
gymnelis viridis;brightly colored scaleless arctic eelpout
helleborus orientalis;slightly hairy perennial having deep green leathery leaves and flowers that are ultimately purplish-green
hemp nettle;coarse bristly eurasian plant with white or reddish flowers and foliage resembling that of a nettle. common as a weed in united states
fragrant woodsia;a common rock-inhabiting fern of northern temperate regions having rusty-brown stipes and lanceolate pinnate fronds
sheepshead;large (up to 20 lbs) food fish of the eastern coast of the united states and mexico
stagger bush;deciduous shrub of coastal plain of the eastern united states having nodding pinkish-white flowers. poisonous to stock
satureja montana;erect perennial subshrub having pink or white flowers and leathery leaves with a flavor of thyme. southern europe
leipoa ocellata;australian moundbird. incubates eggs naturally in sandy mounds
eglantine;eurasian rose with prickly stems and fragrant leaves and bright pink flowers followed by scarlet hips
moneywort;a loosestrife vine
ratibida columnifera;plant similar to the mexican hat coneflower. from british columbia to new mexico
osmanthus americanus;small tree of southern united states having panicles of dull white flowers followed by dark purple fruits
tup;uncastrated adult male sheep: 'a british term is 'tup''
barndoor skate;one of the largest skates (to 5 feet). an active skate easy to hook
central american strap fern;fern with shorter and narrower leaves than florida strap fern. florida to west indies and mexico and south to argentina
asiatic flying squirrel;nocturnal rodent of asia having furry folds of skin between forelegs and hind legs enabling it to move by gliding leaps
superslasher;large (20-ft) and swift carnivorous dinosaur having an upright 15-in slashing claw on each hind foot. early cretaceous
bull thistle;european thistle with rather large heads and prickly leaves. extensively naturalized as a weed in the united states
ulmus campestris sarniensis;a variety of the english elm with erect branches and broader leaves
vicuna;small wild cud-chewing andean animal similar to the guanaco but smaller. valued for its fleecy undercoat
casmerodius albus;widely distributed old world white egret
seminole bread;small tough woody zamia of florida and west indies and cuba. roots and half-buried stems yield an arrowroot
barking deer;small asian deer with small antlers and a cry like a bark
pimenta officinalis;tropical american tree having small white flowers and aromatic berries
chachalaca;slender arboreal guan resembling a wild turkey. native to central america and mexico. highly regarded as game birds
pacific giant salamander;large (to 7 inches) salamander of western north america
sphaeralcea remota;a rare mallow found only in illinois resembling the common hollyhock and having pale rose-mauve flowers. sometimes placed in genus sphaeralcea
medusa;any of numerous usually marine and free-swimming coelenterates that constitute the sexually reproductive forms of hydrozoans and scyphozoans
syzygium aromaticum;moderate sized very symmetrical red-flowered evergreen widely cultivated in the tropics for its flower buds which are source of cloves
dhawa;an indian tree of the family combretaceae that is a source of timber and gum
immortality;the quality or state of being immortal
spartina pectinmata;north american cordgrass having leaves with dry membranous margins and glumes with long awns
field corn;corn grown primarily for animal feed or market grain
aphis pomi;bright green aphid. feeds on and causes curling of apple leaves
stinking smut;similar to tilletia caries
chess;weedy annual native to europe but widely distributed as a weed especially in wheat
jack in the pulpit;common european arum with lanceolate spathe and short purple spadix. emerges in early spring. source of a sagolike starch called arum
carpenter ant;ant that nests in decaying wood in which it bores tunnels for depositing eggs
rock brake;any of several small lithophytic ferns of tropical and warm temperate regions
crataegus coccinea;american red-fruited hawthorn with dense corymbs of pink-red flowers
edible cockle;common edible european cockle
maiden pink;low-growing loosely mat-forming eurasian pink with single crimson-eyed pale pink flowers
bubo virginianus;brown north american horned owl
american wistaria;an the eastern united states native resembling the cultivated japanese wisteria having pale purple-lilac flowers
bovid;hollow-horned ruminants
arizona white oak;semi-evergreen shrub or small tree of arizona and new mexico having acorns with hemispherical cups
alstonia scholaris;evergreen tree of eastern asia and philippines having large leathery leaves and small green-white flowers in compact cymes. bark formerly used medicinally
strophanthus kombe;source of strophanthin which in in moderate doses is a cardiac stimulant but in larger doses a violent poison
amphicarpaea bracteata;vine widely distributed in eastern north america producing racemes of purple to maroon flowers and abundant usually subterranean edible peanutlike one-seeded pods
smalleye hammerhead;fished for the hide and vitamin-rich liver
omnivore;an animal that feeds on both animal and vegetable substances
peach bell;perennial european bellflower with racemose white or blue flowers
black beech;new zealand forest tree
cryptotis parva;small brown shrew of grassy regions of eastern united states
alley cat;homeless cat
prenanthes serpentaria;common perennial herb widely distributed in the southern and eastern united states having drooping clusters of pinkish flowers and thick basal leaves suggesting a lion's foot in shape. sometimes placed in genus prenanthes
tower cress;european cress having stiff erect stems. sometimes placed in genus turritis
euproctis chrysorrhoea;white furry-bodied european moth with a yellow tail tuft
ombu;fast-growing herbaceous evergreen tree of south america having a broad trunk with high water content and dark green oval leaves
lycopersicon esculentum cerasiforme;plant bearing small red to yellow fruit
paranthropus;former classification for australopithecus robustus
costia;a flagellate that is the cause of the frequently fatal fish disease costiasis
wild mustard;weedy eurasian plant often a pest in grain fields
joe pye weed;north american herb having whorled leaves and terminal clusters of flowers spotted with purple
plume thistle;any of numerous biennial to perennial herbs with handsome purple or yellow or occasionally white flower heads
giant eland;large dark striped eland of western equatorial africa
aye aye;nocturnal lemur with long bony fingers and rodent-like incisor teeth closely related to the lemurs
pinus californiarum;very small tree similar to rocky_mountain_pinon but having a single needle per fascicle. similar to parry's pinyon in range
spearnose bat;new world bat with a pointed nose leaf. found from southern united states to paraguay
bay laurel;small mediterranean evergreen tree with small blackish berries and glossy aromatic leaves used for flavoring in cooking. also used by ancient greeks to crown victors
backswimmer;predaceous aquatic insect that swims on its back and may inflict painful bites
titanosaurian;amphibious quadrupedal herbivorous dinosaur with a long thin neck and whiplike tail. of the cretaceous mostly in the southern hemisphere
carcharinus longimanus;large deep-water shark with white-tipped dorsal fin. worldwide distribution. most dangerous shark
nin sin;chinese herb with palmately compound leaves and small greenish flowers and forked aromatic roots believed to have medicinal powers
chain pickerel;common in quiet waters of eastern united states
silkwood;a fast-growing tropical american evergreen having white flowers and white fleshy edible fruit. bark yields a silky fiber used in cordage and wood is valuable for staves
cape lobster;small lobster of southern africa
mutation;an organism that has characteristics resulting from chromosomal alteration
tall mallow;erect or decumbent old world perennial with axillary clusters of rosy-purple flowers. introduced in united states
antilope cervicapra;common indian antelope with a dark back and spiral horns
bassia scoparia;densely branched eurasian plant. foliage turns purple-red in autumn
lepomis punctatus;inhabits streams from s carolina to florida. esteemed panfish
prosopis pubescens;shrub or small tree of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico having spirally twisted pods
ebony spleenwort;common north american fern with polished black stripes
hibiscus farragei;southern and western australian shrub with unlobed or shallowly lobed toothed leaves and purple flowers. sometimes placed in genus hibiscus
tent caterpillar moth;moth whose gregarious larvae spin carpets
ambrosia;any of numerous chiefly north american weedy plants constituting the genus ambrosia that produce highly allergenic pollen responsible for much hay fever and asthma
beebalm;bushy perennial old world mint having small white or yellowish flowers and fragrant lemon-flavored leaves. a garden escapee in northern europe and north america
cotton;erect bushy mallow plant or small tree bearing bolls containing seeds with many long hairy fibers
hydrangea arborescens;deciduous shrub with creamy white flower clusters. eastern united states
moundbird;large-footed short-winged birds of australasia. build mounds of decaying vegetation to incubate eggs
guayule;much-branched subshrub with silvery leaves and small white flowers of texas and northern mexico. cultivated as a source of rubber
sundacarpus amara;a large fast-growing monoecious tropical evergreen tree having large glossy lanceolate leaves. of rain forests of sumatra and philippines to northern queensland
black swan;large australian swan having black plumage and a red bill
basket spikemoss;spikemoss forming dense mats. eastern north america
artemisia cana;low much-branched perennial of western united states having silvery leaves. an important browse and shelter plant
american aloe;tropical american plants with basal rosettes of fibrous sword-shaped leaves and flowers in tall spikes. some cultivated for ornament or for fiber
spike rush;a sedge of the genus eleocharis
giant anteater;large shaggy-haired toothless anteater with long tongue and powerful claws. of south america
hylocichla mustelina;large thrush common in eastern american woodlands. noted for its melodious song
bull;mature male of various mammals of which the female is called 'cow'. e.g. whales or elephants or especially cattle
tomato worm;large green white-striped hawkmoth larva that feeds on tobacco and related plants. similar to tomato_hornworm
sarcophilus hariisi;small ferocious carnivorous marsupial having a mostly black coat and long tail
prairie chicken;brown mottled north american grouse of western prairies
diomedea nigripes;a variety of albatross with black feet
eastern cricket frog;cricket frog of eastern united states
asplenium trichomanes;small rock-inhabiting fern of northern temperate zone and hawaii with pinnate fronds
hard skinned puffball;any of various fungi of the genus scleroderma having hard-skinned subterranean trufflelike fruiting bodies
laportea canadensis;american perennial herb found in rich woods and provided with stinging hairs. provides fibers used for textiles
delphinapterus leucas;small northern whale that is white when adult
trumpeter swan;large pure white wild swan of western north america having a sonorous cry
polygonum fagopyrum;or member of genus fagopyrum. annual asian plant with clusters of small pinkish white flowers and small edible triangular seeds which are used whole or ground into flour
common cotton grass;having densely tufted white cottony or downlike glumes
gurnard;bottom-dwelling coastal fishes with spiny armored heads and fingerlike pectoral fins used for crawling along the sea bottom
carrot;perennial plant widely cultivated as an annual in many varieties for its long conical deep-orange edible roots. temperate and tropical regions
freesia;any of several plants of the genus freesia valued for their one-sided clusters of usually fragrant yellow or white or pink tubular flowers
sansevieria zeylanica;plant having thick fibrous leaves transversely banded in light and dark green
buckwheat tree;tree of low-lying coastal areas of southeastern united states having glossy leaves and racemes of fragrant white flowers
liparis loeselii;small terrestrial orchid of eastern north america and europe having two nearly basal leaves and dull yellow-green racemose flowers
bud sagebrush;half-shrubby perennial valuable as sheep forage in the united states
sinapis arvensis;weedy eurasian plant often a pest in grain fields
wild water lemon;tropical american passion flower with finely dissected bracts. stems malodorous when crushed
alligator snapper;large species having three ridges on its back. found in southeastern united states
calanthe;any of various showy orchids of the genus calanthe having white or yellow or rose-colored flowers and broad leaves folded lengthwise
rodent;relatively small gnawing animals having a single pair of constantly growing incisor teeth specialized for gnawing
yellow bristlegrass;common weedy and bristly grass found in nearly all temperate areas
fishing eagle;of southeast europe and central asia
sedge;grasslike or rushlike plant growing in wet places having solid stems, narrow grasslike leaves and spikelets of inconspicuous flowers
bilimbi;east indian evergreen tree bearing very acid fruit
guernsey elm;a variety of the english elm with erect branches and broader leaves
raspberry;woody brambles bearing usually red but sometimes black or yellow fruits that separate from the receptacle when ripe and are rounder and smaller than blackberries
european roller;common european blue-and-green roller with a reddish-brown back
linden tree;any of various deciduous trees of the genus tilia heart-shaped leaves and drooping cymose clusters of yellowish often fragrant flowers. several yield valuable timber
achira;canna grown especially for its edible rootstock from which arrowroot starch is obtained
meadow cress;a bitter cress of europe and america
winter sweet;aromatic eurasian perennial
common sickle pine;small tropical rain forest tree of indonesia and malaysia
bbs;(computer science) a computer that is running software that allows users to leave messages and access information of general interest
eucalyptus dumosa;small shrubby mallee
gillyflower;eurasian plant with pink to purple-red spice-scented usually double flowers. widely cultivated in many varieties and many colors
man on a horse;an edible agaric with yellow gills and a viscid yellow cap that has a brownish center
true vampire bat;any of various tropical american bats of the family desmodontidae that bite mammals and birds to feed on their blood
spanish moss;dense festoons of greenish-gray hairlike flexuous strands anchored to tree trunks and branches by sparse wiry roots. southeastern united states and west indies to south america
common cockscomb;garden annual with featherlike spikes of red or yellow flowers
giant crab;very large deep-water japanese crab
sisal;mexican or west indian plant with large fleshy leaves yielding a stiff fiber used in e.g. rope
prunus cerasifera;small asiatic tree bearing edible red or yellow fruit. used in europe as budding stock
port jackson fig;australian tree resembling the banyan often planted for ornament. introduced into south africa for brushwood
walking stick;any of various mostly tropical insects having long twiglike bodies
green foxtail;european foxtail naturalized in north america. often a troublesome weed
kakatoe galerita;white cockatoo with a yellow erectile crest
tree heath;evergreen treelike mediterranean shrub having fragrant white flowers in large terminal panicles and hard woody roots used to make tobacco pipes
shuttlecock fern;tall fern of northern temperate regions having graceful arched fronds and sporophylls resembling ostrich plumes
ricinus communis;large shrub of tropical africa and asia having large palmate leaves and spiny capsules containing seeds that are the source of castor oil and ricin. widely naturalized throughout the tropics
cervus unicolor;south asian deer with three-tined antlers
featherfoil;a plant of the genus hottonia
holocentrus ascensionis;bright red fish of west indies and bermuda
capra aegagrus;wild goat of iran and adjacent regions
habenaria nivea;slender fringed orchid of eastern north america having white flowers
tenrec;small often spiny insectivorous mammal of madagascar. resembles a hedgehog
atherodyde;a simple type of jet engine. must be launched at high speed
laurel;any of various aromatic trees of the laurel family
shittimwood;shrubby thorny deciduous tree of southeastern united states with white flowers and small black drupaceous fruit
flag smut fungus;a smut fungus causing a smut in cereals and other grasses that chiefly affects leaves and stems and is characterized chains of sori within the plant tissue that later rupture releasing black masses of spores
garullus garullus;fawn-colored jay with black-and-white crest and blue-and-black wings
phoca vitulina;small spotted seal of coastal waters of the northern hemisphere
wild cabbage;wild original of cultivated cabbages. common in western coastal europe
small civet;common small civet of southeast asia
mullet;bottom-dwelling marine warm-water fishes with two barbels on the chin
lemanderin;hybrid between mandarin orange and lemon having very acid fruit with orange peel
rose of sharon;asiatic shrub or small shrubby tree having showy bell-shaped rose or purple or white flowers and usually 3-lobed leaves. widely cultivated in temperate north america and europe
hoopoo;any of several crested old world birds with a slender down-curving bill
tectaria macrodonta;fern of tropical asia having round buttonlike bulbils
hognose snake;harmless north american snake with upturned nose. may spread its head and neck or play dead when disturbed
saltwort;bushy plant of old world salt marshes and sea beaches having prickly leaves. burned to produce a crude soda ash
belgian hare;red breed of domestic rabbits. hybrid between old_world_rabbit and hare
gaboon viper;large heavy-bodied brilliantly marked and extremely venomous west african viper
young mammal;any immature mammal
strawberry geranium;eastern asiatic saxifrage with racemes of small red-and-white flowers. spreads by numerous creeping stolons
thujopsis dolobrata;slow-growing medium-large japanese evergreen used as an ornamental
common hyacinth;widely grown for its fragrance and its white, pink, blue, or purplish flowers
round leaved rein orchid;orchid having a raceme of large greenish-white flowers on a single flower stalk growing between two elliptic or round basal leaves lying on the ground. from northern oregon and montana across canada to the eastern united states
cytisus scoparius;deciduous erect spreading broom native to western europe. widely cultivated for its rich yellow flowers
northern oak fern;yellow-green fern of rocky areas of northern hemisphere
ironwood tree;a small slow-growing deciduous tree of northern iran having a low domed shape
sambucus canadensis;common elder of central and eastern north america bearing purple-black berries. fruit used in wines and jellies
euproctis phaeorrhoea;small brown-and_white european moth introduced into eastern united states. pest of various shade and fruit trees
kudzu;fast-growing east asian vine having hairy trifoliate leaves and racemes of purple flowers followed by long many-seed hairy pods and tuberous starchy roots. grown for fodder and forage and root starch. widespread in the southern united states
american dog violet;violet of eastern north america having pale violet to white flowers
broomcorn;tall grasses grown for the elongated stiff-branched panicle used for brooms and brushes
phalsa;drought-resistant asiatic treelike shrub bearing pleasantly acid small red edible fruits commonly used in sherbets
sea ear;found near the channel islands
alpine goldenrod;goldenrod similar to narrow goldenrod but having bristly hairs on edges of leaf stalks. mountainous regions of western america
barbet;small brightly colored stout-billed tropical bird having short weak wings
curleyleaf pondweed;european herb naturalized in the eastern united states and california
shamrock;creeping european clover having white to pink flowers and bright green leaves. naturalized in united states. widely grown for forage
cat s ear;any of several plants of the genus calochortus having flowers with petals shaped like cat's ears
american copper;common copper butterfly of central and eastern north america
pickeringia montana;spiny evergreen xerophytic shrub having showy rose-purple flowers and forming dense thickets. of dry rocky mountain slopes of california
marchantia polymorpha;a common liverwort
gladiolus;any of numerous plants of the genus gladiolus native chiefly to tropical and south africa having sword-shaped leaves and one-sided spikes of brightly colored funnel-shaped flowers. widely cultivated
rhubarb plant;plants having long green or reddish acidic leafstalks growing in basal clumps. stems (and only the stems) are edible when cooked. leaves are poisonous
dalbergia nigra;an important brazilian timber tree yielding a heavy hard dark-colored wood streaked with black
mya arenaria;an edible clam with thin oval-shaped shell found in coastal regions of the united states and europe
macrocheira kaempferi;very large deep-water japanese crab
virginia pine;common small shrubby pine of the eastern united states having straggling often twisted or branches and short needles in bunches of 2
charger;formerly a strong horse ridden into battle
broad beech fern;beech fern of north american woodlands having straw-colored stripes
avocado;tropical american tree bearing large pulpy green fruits
poliovirus;the virus causing poliomyelitis
bluebell;perennial of northern hemisphere with slender stems and bell-shaped blue flowers
sea animal;any of numerous animals inhabiting the sea including e.g. fishes and molluscs and many mammals
skylark;brown-speckled european lark noted for singing while hovering at a great height
eastern pipistrel;one of the smallest bats of eastern north america
saint bernard;a swiss alpine breed of large powerful thick-coated dog used as a rescue dog
water rat;any of various amphibious rats
lepidochelys olivacea;olive-colored sea turtle of tropical pacific and indian and south atlantic oceans
cantharellus clavatus;an edible agaric with a brown fruiting body that is often compound
outboard motor;mounts at stern of small boat
phaseolus coccineus;tropical american high-climbing bean with red flowers and mottled black beans similar to phaseolus_vulgaris but perennial. a preferred food bean in g britain
blackberry lily;garden plant whose capsule discloses when ripe a mass of seeds resembling a blackberry
scarlet tanager;the male is bright red with black wings and tail
golden yarrow;grayish woolly leafy perennial with branched stems ending in leafless stalks bearing golden-yellow flower heads. dry areas western north america
horsefly;large swift fly the female of which sucks blood of various animals
woolly bear caterpillar;caterpillar of numerous moths characterized by a dense coat of woolly hairs. feed on plants and some are destructive pests
agkistrodon piscivorus;venomous semiaquatic snake of swamps in southern united states
chrysanthemum parthenium;bushy aromatic european perennial herb having clusters of buttonlike white-rayed flower heads. valued traditionally for medicinal uses. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
lake trout;large fork-tailed trout of lakes of canada and the northern united states
perdurability;the property of being extremely durable
tringa melanoleuca;a variety of yellowlegs
hard rush;tall rush of temperate regions
great millet;important for human and animal food. growth habit and stem form similar to indian corn but having sawtooth-edged leaves
pyramid bugle;european evergreen carpeting perennial
goora nut;tree bearing large brown nuts containing e.g. caffeine. source of cola extract
queen bee;fertile egg-laying female bee
brown swiss;large hardy brown breed from switzerland
sea elephant;either of two large north atlantic earless seals having snouts like trunks
arboreal salamander;yellow-spotted brown salamander of california woodlands
cathaya;chinese evergreen conifer discovered in 1955. not yet cultivated elsewhere
pinot blanc;white wine grape. grown especially in california for making chablis-type wines
chinese alligator;small of the yangtze valley of china having unwebbed digits
brassica oleracea;any of various cultivars of the genus brassica oleracea grown for their edible leaves or flowers
catocala nupta;moth having dull forewings and red-marked hind wings
adonis annua;eurasian herb cultivated for its dark-centered deep red flowers
eira barbara;long-tailed arboreal mustelid of central and south america
stone parsley;any plant of the genus seseli having dense umbels of small white or pink flowers and finely divided foliage
swamp maple;maple of eastern and central america. 5-lobed leaves scarlet and yellow in autumn
owlet;young owl
japanese beetle;small metallic green and brown beetle native to eastern asia. serious plant pest in north america
coondog;any dog trained to hunt raccoons
wilsonia pusilla;yellow wood warbler with a black crown
cedar elm;elm of southern united states and mexico having spreading pendulous corky branches
aralia stipulata;similar to american angelica tree but less prickly. china
waterwheel plant;floating aquatic carnivorous perennial of central and southern europe, africa, asia, australia having whorls of 6 to 9 leaves ending in hinged lobes for capturing e.g. water fleas
chrysanthemum maximum maximum;hybrid garden flower derived from chrysanthemum maximum and chrysanthemum lacustre having large white flower heads resembling oxeye daisies. often placed in the genus chrysanthemum
scirpus cyperinus;sedge of eastern north america having numerous clustered woolly spikelets
greek clover;annual herb or southern europe and eastern asia having off-white flowers and aromatic seeds used medicinally and in curry
venus s shoe;any of various orchids of the genus paphiopedilum having slender flower stalks bearing 1 to several waxy flowers with pouchlike lips
pyrrosia lingua;east asian fern having fronds shaped like tongues. sometimes placed in genus cyclophorus
cicada killer;large black or rust-colored wasp that preys on cicadas
castor fiber;a european variety of beaver
atlantic halibut;largest united states flatfish
paradise flower;tropical shrub or small tree having showy yellow to orange-red flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
indri brevicaudatus;large short-tailed lemur of madagascar having thick silky fur in black and white and fawn
bullock s heart;small tropical american tree bearing a bristly heart-shaped acid tropical fruit
hack;an old or over-worked horse
southern scup;porgy of southern atlantic coastal waters of north america
herpes varicella zoster virus;a herpes virus that causes chickenpox and shingles
prunus incisa;shrubby japanese tree having pale pink blossoms
wankel rotary engine;a four-stroke internal-combustion engine without reciprocating parts
jersey fern;small short-lived fern of central and south america
crimson clover;southern european annual with spiky heads of crimson flower. extensively cultivated in united states for forage
nigroporus vinosus;a woody pore fungus with a dark brown to red brown cap and spore surface and small pores
life;living things collectively. 'the oceans are teeming with life'
hermit thrush;north american thrush noted for its complex and appealing song
bermuda grass;trailing grass native to europe now cosmopolitan in warm regions. used for lawns and pastures especially in southern united states and india
pygmy cypress;rare small cypress native to northern california. sometimes considered the same species as gowen cypress
mahagua;erect forest tree of cuba and jamaica having variably hairy leaves and orange-yellow or orange-red flowers. yields a moderately dense timber for cabinetwork and gunstocks
tropaeolum majus;strong-growing annual climber having large flowers of all shades of orange from orange-red to yellowish orange and seeds that are pickled and used like capers
arctotis venusta;bushy perennial of south africa with white or violet flowers. in its native region often clothes entire valley sides in a sheet of color
milkvetch;any of various plants of the genus astragalus
rock sea bass;a kind of sea bass
lake duck;common scaup of north america. males have purplish heads
beefsteak geranium;any of numerous usually rhizomatous hybrid begonias derived from an east indian plant having rough-textured leaves patterned in silver and bronze and purple and red-brown with inconspicuous flowers
nightjar;mainly crepuscular or nocturnal nonpasserine birds with mottled grayish-brown plumage and large eyes. feed on insects
lesser celandine;perennial herb native to europe but naturalized elsewhere having heart-shaped leaves and yellow flowers resembling buttercups. its tuberous roots have been used as a poultice to relieve piles
remilegia australis;large blue pacific remora that attaches to whales and dolphins
teal;any of various small short-necked dabbling river ducks of europe and america
penstemon;low plant with light blue and violet flowers in short clusters near tips of stems. nevada to utah
mountain ash;tree having wood similar to the alpine ash. tallest tree in australia and tallest hardwood in the world
rhamnus californicus;evergreen shrub of western united states bearing small red or black fruits
mammuthus columbi;a variety of mammoth
sulfur bottom;largest mammal ever known. bluish-gray migratory whalebone whale mostly of southern hemisphere
nectarine tree;variety or mutation of the peach bearing smooth-skinned fruit with usually yellow flesh
spiny softshell;river turtle of western united states with a warty shell. prefers quiet water
tuna;tropical american flat-jointed prickly pear. jamaica
bay willow;european willow tree with shining leathery leaves. widely naturalized in the eastern united states
cedrela calantas;philippine timber tree having hard red fragrant wood
toy terrier;a small active dog
oceanites oceanicus;medium-sized storm petrel
larch tree;any of numerous conifers of the genus larix all having deciduous needlelike leaves
burr;rotary file for smoothing rough edges left on a workpiece
locust bean;long pod containing small beans and sweetish edible pulp. used as animal feed and source of a chocolate substitute
crocodilian;extant archosaurian reptile
jointworm;larva of chalcid flies injurious to the straw of wheat and other grains
erythroxylon coca;a south american shrub whose leaves are chewed by natives of the andes. a source of cocaine
spiny lizard;any of numerous lizards with overlapping ridged pointed scales. of north and central america
accipiter gentilis;large hawk of eurasia and north america used in falconry
summer redbird;of middle and southern united states. male is deep rose-red the female mostly yellow
bufo microscaphus;a uniformly warty stocky toad of washes and streams of semiarid southwestern united states
soja bean;erect bushy hairy annual herb having trifoliate leaves and purple to pink flowers. extensively cultivated for food and forage and soil improvement but especially for its nutritious oil-rich seeds. native to asia
squirreltail barley;barley grown for its highly ornamental flower heads with delicate long silky awns. north america and northeastern asia
jasminum nudiflorum;deciduous rambling shrub widely cultivated for its winter-blooming yellow flowers
pollock;important food and game fish of northern seas especially north atlantic. related to cod
hellbender;large salamander of north american rivers and streams
water chestnut plant;a plant of the genus trapa bearing spiny four-pronged edible nutlike fruits
eucalyptus maculata;large gum tree with mottled bark
physalis alkekengi;old world perennial cultivated for its ornamental inflated papery orange-red calyx
gymnadenia conopsea;european orchid having dense spikes of fragrant pink or lilac or red flowers with conspicuous spurs
parsley;annual or perennial herb with aromatic finely-cut leaves
sauropod dinosaur;very large herbivorous dinosaur of the jurassic and cretaceous having a small head a long neck and tail and five-toed limbs. largest known land animal
velvet plant;javanese foliage plant grown for their handsome velvety leaves with violet-purple hairs
vittaria lineata;epiphytic fern found in lowland forests of tropical america
mason wasp;any of various solitary wasps that construct nests of hardened mud for their young
american blight;primarily a bark feeder on aerial parts and roots of apple and other trees
komodo lizard;the largest lizard in the world (10 feet). found on indonesian islands
white sturgeon;food and game fish of marine and fresh waters of northwestern coast of north america
nettle;any of numerous plants having stinging hairs that cause skin irritation on contact (especially of the genus urtica or family urticaceae)
plug;an old or over-worked horse
orchard grass;widely grown stout old world hay and pasture grass
brassavola;any of various tropical american orchids with usually solitary fleshy leaves and showy white to green nocturnally fragrant blossoms solitary or in racemes of up to 7
old world porcupine;terrestrial porcupine
matchbush;any of several plants of the genus gutierrezia having tiny matchlike flower heads
mite;any of numerous very small to minute arachnids often infesting animals or plants or stored foods
iris versicolor;a common iris of the eastern united states having blue or blue-violet flowers. root formerly used medicinally
donkey;domestic beast of burden descended from the african wild ass. patient but stubborn
cardamine pratensis;a bitter cress of europe and america
dipterocarp;tree of the family dipterocarpaceae
agathis australis;tall timber tree of new zealand having white straight-grained wood
alligator lizard;slim short-limbed lizard having a distinctive fold on each side that permits expansion. of western north america
mountain hollyhock;perennial of northwestern united states and western canada resembling a hollyhock and having white or pink flowers
wild chamomile;annual eurasian herb similar in fragrance and medicinal uses to chamomile though taste is more bitter and effect is considered inferior
arnica bud;fall-blooming european herb with a yellow flower. naturalized in the united states
lesser knapweed;a weedy perennial with tough wiry stems and purple flowers. native to europe but widely naturalized
victrola;(trademark) a brand of phonograph
vespertilio murinus;common eurasian bat with white-tipped hairs in its coat
partridge pea;tropical american plant having leaflets somewhat sensitive to the touch. sometimes placed in genus cassia
clitoria mariana;large-flowered wild twining vine of southeastern and central united states having pale blue flowers
teucrium canadense;subshrub with serrate leaves and cream to pink or purple flowers in spikelike racemes. north america
albizzia lebbeck;large spreading old world tree having large leaves and globose clusters of greenish-yellow flowers and long seed pods that clatter in the wind
sciara;minute blackish gregarious flies destructive to mushrooms and seedlings
cottonweed;any of various plants of the genus froelichia found in sandy soils and on rocky slopes in warmer regions of america. grown for their spikes of woolly white flowers
pennisetum glaucum;tall grass having cattail like spikes. grown in africa and asia for its grain and in the united states chiefly for forage. sometimes used in making beer
kapuka;small new zealand broadleaf evergreen tree often cultivated in warm regions as an ornamental
moonfish;large elliptical brightly colored deep-sea fish of atlantic and pacific and mediterranean
trichopterous insect;caddis fly
bristle fern;any fern of the genus trichomanes having large pinnatifid often translucent fronds. most are epiphytic on tree branches and twigs or terrestrial on mossy banks
calopogon pulchellum;an orchid
douglas pine;lofty douglas fir of northwestern north america having short needles and egg-shaped cones
barunduki;terrestrial siberian squirrel
canna generalis;plants grown for their large bright yellow to red flowers
papooseroot;tall herb of eastern north america and asia having blue berrylike fruit and a thick knotty rootstock formerly used medicinally
land cress;of southwestern europe. cultivated in florida
ceroxylon andicola;palm of the andes yielding a resinous wax which is mixed with tallow to make candles
stanleya pinnata;perennial of southwestern united states having leathery blue-green pinnatifid leaves and thick plumelike spikes of yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus cleome
tamandua;small toothless anteater with prehensile tale and four-clawed forelimbs. of tropical south and central america
mustela nivalis;of europe
sphingid;any of various moths with long narrow forewings capable of powerful flight and hovering over flowers to feed
japanese andromeda;broad-leaved evergreen asiatic shrub with glossy leaves and drooping clusters of white flowers
carduelis cucullata;south american species of scarlet finch with black head and wings and tail
alexandrian laurel;east indian tree having racemes of fragrant white flowers. coastal areas southern india to malaysia
mustelus norrisi;found from the northern gulf of mexico to brazil
thielavia basicola;fungus causing brown root rot in plants of the pea and potato and cucumber families
corkscrew flower;perennial tropical american vine cultivated for its racemes of showy yellow and purple flowers having the corolla keel coiled like a snail shell. sometimes placed in genus phaseolus
chinaberry;evergreen of tropical america having pulpy fruit containing saponin which was used as soap by native americans
addressograph;a printer that automatically prints addresses on letters for mailing
indian pea;european annual grown for forage. seeds used for food in india and for stock elsewhere
pomoxis nigromaculatus;a crappie that is black
frostwort;perennial of the eastern united states having early solitary yellow flowers followed by late petalless flowers. so-called because ice crystals form on it during first frosts
mergus serrator;widely distributed merganser of america and europe
aletris farinosa;colicroot having a scurfy or granuliferous perianth and white flowers. southeastern united states
holm oak;evergreen oak of southern europe having leaves somewhat resembling those of holly. yields a hard wood
aureolaria virginica;sparsely branched north american perennial with terminal racemes of bright yellow flowers resembling those of the foxglove. sometimes placed in genus gerardia
hardtack;a mountain mahogany
pedilanthus tithymaloides;low tropical american shrub having powerful emetic properties
mute swan;soundless eurasian swan. commonly domesticated
gillyflower;any of several old world plants cultivated for their brightly colored flowers
richardson s geranium;geranium of western north america having branched clusters of white or pale pink flowers
whitetip shark;smooth dogfish of pacific and indian oceans and red sea having white-tipped dorsal and caudal fins
circis siliquastrum;small tree of the eastern mediterranean having abundant purplish-red flowers growing on old wood directly from stems and appearing before the leaves: widely cultivated in mild regions. wood valuable for veneers
himantopus novae zelandiae;blackish stilt of new zealand sometimes considered a color phase of the white-headed stilt
loir;large european dormouse
pholiota squarrosa;a gilled fungus with a cap and stalk that are conspicuously scaly with upright scales. gills develop a greenish tinge with age
eucalyptus camaldulensis;somewhat crooked red gum tree growing chiefly along rivers. has durable reddish lumber used in heavy construction
arctostaphylos manzanita;erect treelike shrub forming dense thickets and having drooping panicles of white or pink flowers and red berrylike drupes. california
man of the earth;long-rooted morning glory of western united states
bromus arvensis;annual grass of europe and temperate asia
kitambilla;maroon-purple gooseberry-like fruit of india having tart-sweet purple pulp used especially for preserves
platyhelminth;parasitic or free-living worms having a flattened body
swamp rabbit;of southeastern united states swamps and lowlands
odocoileus virginianus;common north american deer. tail has a white underside
man of war bird;long-billed warm-water seabird with wide wingspan and forked tail
titan arum;malodorous tropical plant having a spathe that resembles the corolla of a morning glory and attains a diameter of several feet
awnless bromegrass;drought-resistant perennial with awns lacking or very short and long creeping rhizomes. europe and temperate asia
ribbonfish;marine fish having a long compressed ribbon-like body
cottontail rabbit;common small rabbit of north america having grayish or brownish fur and a tail with a white underside. a host for ixodes pacificus and ixodes scapularis (lyme disease ticks)
audubon s caracara;widespread from southern united states to central america. rusty black with black-and-white breast and tail
red clintonia;plant with nearly leafless stalk topped by an umbel-like cluster of red or reddish_lavender flowers. california to oregon
erigeron divergens;well-branched plant with hairy leaves and stems each with a solitary flower head with narrow white or pink or lavender rays. western north america
pectoral sandpiper;american sandpiper that inflates its chest when courting
populus balsamifera;poplar of northeastern north america with broad heart-shaped leaves
chigger;small tropical flea. the fertile female burrows under the skin of the host including humans
giant puffball;huge edible puffball up to 2 feet diameter and 25 pounds in weight
buffalofish;any of several large suckers of the mississippi valley
nightingale;european songbird noted for its melodious nocturnal song
cobia;large dark-striped tropical food and game fish related to remoras. found worldwide in coastal to open waters
crayfish;small freshwater decapod crustacean that resembles a lobster
rocky mountain bighorn;wild sheep of mountainous regions of western north america having massive curled horns
salix caprea;much-branched old world willow having large catkins and relatively large broad leaves
rabbit brush;pleasantly aromatic shrub having erect slender flexible hairy branches and dense clusters of small yellow flowers covering vast areas of western alkali plains and affording a retreat for jackrabbits. source of a yellow dye used by navajo indians
zonotrichia leucophrys;finch with black-and-white striped crown
indestructibility;the strength to resist destruction
casuarina equisetfolia;common australian tree widely grown as an ornamental in tropical regions. yields heavy hard red wood
large periwinkle;plant having variegated foliage and used for window boxes
manduca sexta;large green white-striped hawkmoth larva that feeds on tobacco and related plants. similar to tomato_hornworm
hawkweed;any of numerous often hairy plants of the genus hieracium having yellow or orange flowers that resemble the dandelion
thermobia domestica;lives in warm moist areas e.g. around furnaces
inchworm;small hairless caterpillar having legs on only its front and rear segments. mostly larvae of moths of the family geometridae
american woodcock;small long-billed american woodcock. prized as a game bird
solanum melongena;hairy upright herb native to southeastern asia but widely cultivated for its large glossy edible fruit commonly used as a vegetable
yellow bugle;low-growing annual with yellow flowers dotted red. faintly aromatic of pine resin. europe, british isles and north africa
pistia;pantropical floating plant forming a rosette of wedge-shaped leaves. a widespread weed in rivers and lakes
myxinikela siroka;fossil hagfish of the pennsylvanian period (c. 300 million years ago) that resembled modern hagfishes
menticirrhus littoralis;a dull silvery whiting of southern atlantic and gulf coasts of the united states
rhizoctinia solani;fungus causing a disease in potatoes characterized by black scurfy spots on the tubers
snakeroot;any of various north american plants of the genus liatris having racemes or panicles of small discoid flower heads
fern rhapis;small graceful palm with reedlike stems and leaf bases clothed with loose coarse fibers
eragrostis curvula;perennial south african grass having densely clumped flimsy stems. introduced into united states especially for erosion control
false foxglove;sparsely branched north american perennial with terminal racemes of bright yellow flowers resembling those of the foxglove. sometimes placed in genus gerardia
saprobe;an organism that lives in and derives its nourishment from organic matter in stagnant or foul water
botaurus stellaris;a kind of bittern
macrozamia;any treelike cycad of the genus macrozamia having erect trunks and pinnate leaves and large cones with sometimes edible nuts. australia
webworm moth;a variety of moth that spins a web in which it lives
orchidaceous plant;any of numerous plants of the orchid family usually having flowers of unusual shapes and beautiful colors
griffon;breed of medium-sized long-headed dogs with downy undercoat and harsh wiry outer coat. originated in holland but largely developed in france
lug;marine worms having a row of tufted gills along each side of the back. often used for fishing bait
yard grass;coarse annual grass having fingerlike spikes of flowers. native to old world tropics. a naturalized weed elsewhere
burunduki;terrestrial siberian squirrel
chickasaw plum;small native american shrubby tree bearing small edible yellow to reddish fruit
beardless iris;any of numerous wild or cultivated irises having no hairs on the drooping sepals (the falls)
spanish bayonet;tall woody-stemmed yucca of southwestern united states and mexico having stiff swortlike pointed leaves and a large cluster of white flowers
sea onion;having dense spikes of small white flowers and yielding a bulb with medicinal properties
bark beetle;small beetle that bores tunnels in the bark and wood of trees. related to weevils
crottle;any of several lichens of the genus parmelia from which reddish brown or purple dyes are made
glory lily;any plant of the genus gloriosa of tropical africa and asia. a perennial herb climbing by means of tendrils at leaf tips having showy yellow to red or purple flowers. all parts are poisonous
dabbler;any of numerous shallow-water ducks that feed by upending and dabbling
jumby bead;west indian tree similar to ormosia monosperma but larger and having smaller leaflets and smaller seeds
love vine;leafless parasitic vine with dense clusters of small white bell-shaped flowers on orange-yellow stems that twine around clover or flax
abelia;any of various deciduous or evergreen ornamental shrubs of the genus abelia having opposite simple leaves and cymes of small white or pink or purplish flowers. asia and mexico
mouse eared bat;a carnivorous bat with ears like a mouse
phaseolus vulgaris;the common annual twining or bushy bean plant grown for its edible seeds or pods
cubeb vine;tropical southeast asian shrubby vine bearing spicy berrylike fruits
juneberry;any of various north american trees or shrubs having showy white flowers and edible blue-black or purplish fruit
marabout;large african black-and-white carion-eating stork. downy under-wing feathers are used to trim garments
lepidochelys kempii;gray sea turtle of the atlantic and gulf coasts of north america
phyllostomus hastatus;a variety of leaf-nosed bat
haliatus albicilla;bulky grayish-brown eagle with a short wedge-shaped white tail. of europe and greenland
parasite;an animal or plant that lives in or on another and from which it obtains nourishment
ceriman;tropical american vine having hanging cord-like roots and cylindrical fruit with pineapple-banana flavor
broadbean;old world upright plant grown especially for its large flat edible seeds but also as fodder
rattail fish;deep-sea fish with a large head and body and long tapering tail
glass sponge;a siliceous sponge (with glassy spicules) of the class hyalospongiae
hydrangea paniculata;deciduous shrub or small tree with pyramidal flower clusters
arabis canadensis;north american rock cress having very long curved pods
poecilogale albinucha;small slender burrowing muishond with white top of the head
ditch reed;tall north american reed having relative wide leaves and large plumelike panicles. widely distributed in moist areas. used for mats, screens and arrow shafts
heliothis zia;medium-sized moth whose larvae are corn earworms
tiger lily;lily of southeastern united states having cup-shaped flowers with deep yellow to scarlet recurved petals
anemone cylindrica;a common north american anemone with cylindrical thimblelike fruit clusters
toddy palm;tall fan palm of africa and india and malaysia yielding a hard wood and sweet sap that is a source of palm wine and sugar. leaves used for thatching and weaving
rhinoceros;massive powerful herbivorous odd-toed_ungulate of southeast asia and africa having very thick skin and one or two horns on the snout
spotted antbird;a kind of antbird
rudbeckia hirta;the state flower of maryland. of central and southeastern united states. having daisylike flowers with dark centers and yellow to orange rays
mock azalia;south african shrub having a swollen succulent stem and bearing showy pink and white flowers after the leaves fall. popular as an ornamental in tropics
tyrannus domenicensis domenicensis;a kingbird that breeds in the southeastern united states and winters in tropical america. similar to but larger than the eastern kingbird
bush hibiscus;southern and western australian shrub with unlobed or shallowly lobed toothed leaves and purple flowers. sometimes placed in genus hibiscus
astreus hygrometricus;a common species of earthstar widely distributed in sandy soil. the gleba is a pale tan
semiepiphyte;a plant that is an epiphyte for part of its life
iceland lichen;lichen with branched flattened partly erect thallus that grows in mountainous and arctic regions. used as a medicine or food for humans and livestock. a source of glycerol
peruvian cotton;cotton with long rough hairy fibers
sander;a tool used for sanding wood. a loop of sandpaper is moved at high speed by an electric motor
mirid bug;a variety of leaf bug
wool grass;sedge of eastern north america having numerous clustered woolly spikelets
millepede;any of numerous herbivorous nonpoisonous arthropods having a cylindrical body of 20 to 100 or more segments most with two pairs of legs
poison milkweed;milkweed of southwestern united states and mexico. poisonous to livestock
manila tamarind;common thorny tropical american tree having terminal racemes of yellow flowers followed by sickle-shaped or circinate edible pods and yielding good timber and a yellow dye and mucilaginous gum
actinomeris alternifolia;perennial herb with showy yellow flowers. the eastern united states
lithophragma affine;california perennial herb cultivated for its racemose white flowers with widely spreading petals. sometimes placed in genus tellima
muskat;any of several cultivated grapes used for wine and raisins
buckskin;horse of a light yellowish dun color with dark mane and tail
whitethroat;grayish-brown old world warbler with a white throat and underparts
aristotelia racemosa;graceful deciduous shrub or small tree having attractive foliage and small red berries that turn black at maturity and are used for making wine
smooth aster;a variety of aster
quandong tree;australian tree with edible flesh and edible nutlike seed
hemerocallis lilio asphodelus;a day lily with yellow flowers
red winged blackbird;north american blackbird with scarlet patches on the wings
gooseberry;spiny eurasian shrub having greenish purple-tinged flowers and ovoid yellow-green or red-purple berries
soapberry vine;tendril-climbing vine
desmodium motorium;erect tropical asian shrub whose small lateral leaflets rotate on their axes and jerk up and down under the influence of sunshine
turbofan engine;a turbine drives air to the burner
green june beetle;large greenish june beetle of southern united states
dollarfish;any of several silvery marine fishes with very flat bodies
siberian wall flower;showy erect biennial or short-lived perennial cultivated for its terminal racemes of orange-yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus cheiranthus
red sandalwood;east indian tree with racemes of yellow-white flowers. cultivated as an ornamental
draft animal;an animal used for pulling heavy loads
red cabbage;cabbage plant with a compact head of reddish purple leaves
red lauan;valuable philippine timber tree
uria lomvia;a variety of murre
manduca quinquemaculata;moth whose larvae are tomato hornworms
everlasting flower;any of various plants of various genera of the family compositae having flowers that can be dried without loss of form or color
stenocarpus salignus;tree or tall shrub with shiny leaves and umbels of fragrant creamy-white flowers. yields hard heavy reddish wood
brown root rot fungus;fungus causing brown root rot in plants of the pea and potato and cucumber families
herd s grass;grass with long cylindrical spikes frown in northern united states and europe for hay
western holly fern;north american fern
lilium longiflorum;tall lily have large white trumpet-shaped flowers that bloom in the spring
streptomyces;aerobic bacteria some of which produce the antibiotic streptomycin
egretta thula;small new world egret
nightwalker;terrestrial worm that burrows into and helps aerate soil. often surfaces when the ground is cool or wet. used as bait by anglers
collembolan;any of numerous minute wingless primitive insects possessing a special abdominal appendage that allows the characteristic nearly perpetual springing pattern. found in soil rich in organic debris or on the surface of snow or water
daucus carota;a widely naturalized eurasian herb with finely cut foliage and white compound umbels of small white or yellowish flowers and thin yellowish roots
corydalis claviculata;annual vine with decompound leaves and racemes of yellow and pink flowers
naked mole rat;fetal-looking colonial rodent of east africa. neither mole nor rat. they feed on tubers and have a social structure similar to that of honeybees and termites
hymnenopter;insects having two pairs of membranous wings and an ovipositor specialized for stinging or piercing
smooth dogfish;small bottom-dwelling shark found along both atlantic coasts
darling pea;either of two australian plants of the genus swainsona that are poisonous to sheep
germander;any of various plants of the genus teucrium
cuculiform bird;birds having zygodactyl feet (except for the touracos)
downy brome;annual or winter annual grass with softly hairy leaves of the mediterranean
aramus pictus;wading bird of florida, cuba and jamaica having a drooping bill and a distinctive wailing call
sambucus caerulea;shrub or small tree of western united states having white flowers and blue berries. fruit used in wines and jellies
cotton plant;erect bushy mallow plant or small tree bearing bolls containing seeds with many long hairy fibers
broad leaved dock;european dock with broad obtuse leaves and bitter rootstock common as a weed in north america
ceratopteris thalictroides;pantropical aquatic fern
bristly sarsparilla;bristly herb of eastern and central north america having black fruit and medicinal bark
sparaxis tricolor;a showy often-cultivated plant with tawny yellow often purple-spotted flowers
oriental beetle;introduced into united states from the orient. larvae feed on roots of sugarcane and other grasses
cayuse;a small native range horse
black rudderfish;blackish fish of new england waters
carduelis flammea;small siskin-like finch with a red crown
offspring;any immature animal
acrodont;an animal having teeth consolidated with the summit of the alveolar ridge without sockets
sweet william;eurasian pink widely cultivated for its flat-topped dense clusters of varicolored flowers
hackberry;any of various trees of the genus celtis having inconspicuous flowers and small berrylike fruits
bird pepper;plant bearing very small and very hot oblong red fruits. includes wild forms native to tropical america. thought to be ancestral to the sweet pepper and many hot peppers
pollinator;an insect that carries pollen from one flower to another
centaurea americana;annual of southwestern united states cultivated for its purple-rayed flower heads and its basket-like bracts
star apple;evergreen tree of west indies and central america having edible purple fruit star-shaped in cross section and dark green leaves with golden silky undersides
sloth;any of several slow-moving arboreal mammals of south and central america. they hang from branches back downward and feed on leaves and fruits
orpington;english breed of large white-skinned chickens
cornsmut;a smut fungus attacking indian corn
acer pseudoplatanus;eurasian maple tree with pale gray bark that peels in flakes like that of a sycamore tree. leaves with five ovate lobes yellow in autumn
sea turtle;any of various large turtles with limbs modified into flippers. widely distributed in warm seas
bay leaved caper;shrub or small tree of southern florida to central and south america
asclepiad;any plant of the family asclepiadaceae
babassu palm;tall feather palm of northern brazil with hard-shelled nuts yielding valuable oil and a kind of vegetable ivory
dedicated file server;(computer science) a file server that can be used only as a file server
numenius arquata;common eurasian curlew
plantago media;widely distributed old world perennial naturalized in north america having finely hairy leaves and inconspicuous white fragrant flowers
turkey vulture;common in south and central america and southern united states
sea ash;small deciduous aromatic shrub (or tree) having spiny branches and yellowish flowers. eastern north america
hibiscus heterophyllus;australian tree with acid foliage
mullus surmuletus;brightly colored tropical fishes with chin barbels
chenopodium murale;european annual with coarsely dentate leaves. widespread in united states and southern canada
rock penstemon;one of the west's most beautiful wildflowers. large brilliant pink or rose flowers in many racemes above thick mats of stems and leaves. ledges and cliffs from washington to california
hangbird;eastern subspecies of northern oriole
horse chestnut;tree having palmate leaves and large clusters of white to red flowers followed by brown shiny inedible seeds
raccoon fox;raccoon-like omnivorous mammal of mexico and the southwestern united states having a long bushy tail with black and white rings
onoclea struthiopteris;tall fern of northern temperate regions having graceful arched fronds and sporophylls resembling ostrich plumes
allium carinatum;eurasian bulbous plant
ajuga genevensis;upright rhizomatous perennial with bright blue flowers. southern europe
blue eyed grass;plant with grasslike foliage and delicate blue flowers
firethorn;any of various thorny shrubs of the genus pyracantha bearing small white flowers followed by hard red or orange-red berries
mole rat;furry shorlt-limbed tailless rodent resembling a true mole in habits and appearance. of eastern europe and middle east
roble;large tree of trinidad and guyana having odd-pinnate leaves and violet-scented axillary racemes of yellow flowers and long smooth pods. grown as a specimen in parks and large gardens
pigeon guillemot;north pacific guillemot
sea star;echinoderms characterized by five arms extending from a central disk
polychete worm;chiefly marine annelids possessing both sexes and having paired appendages (parapodia) bearing bristles
cereal grass;grass whose starchy grains are used as food: wheat. rice. rye. oats. maize. buckwheat. millet
northern beech fern;beech fern of north america and eurasia
new world sparrow;sparrow-like north american finches
narwhal;small arctic whale the male having a long spiral ivory tusk
attack dog;a watchdog trained to attack on command
pyrausta nubilalis;native to europe. in america the larvae bore into the stem and crown of corn and other plants
gypsywort;hairy eurasian herb with two-lipped white flowers
daphne mezereum;small european deciduous shrub with fragrant lilac-colored flowers followed by red berries on highly toxic twigs
swamp rose mallow;showy shrub of salt marshes of the eastern united states having large rose-colored flowers
bucephala islandica;north american goldeneye diving duck
pari mutuel machine;registers bets and divides the total amount bet among those who won
butterfly flower;shrub or small tree of dutch guiana having clusters of pink purple-streaked flowers
banded sand snake;a sand snake of southwestern united states. lives in fine to coarse sand or loamy soil in which it 'swims'. banding resembles that of coral snakes
limanda ferruginea;american flounder having a yellowish tail
witch alder;any of several deciduous low-growing shrubs of the genus fothergilla having showy brushlike spikes of white flowers in spring and fiery red and orange autumn color. alabama to allegheny mts
wild cinnamon;large evergreen shrub or small tree having white aromatic bark and leathery leaves and small purple to red flowers in terminal cymes
yellow chamomile;eurasian perennial herb with hairy divided leaves and yellow flowers. naturalized in north america
bugloss;widespread european weed with spiny tongue-shaped leaves and yellow flowers. naturalized in united states
dicot;flowering plant with two cotyledons
conuropsis carolinensis;extinct parakeet whose range extended far into the united states
silver thatch;small stocky fan palm of southern florida and cuba
lonicera flava;climbing deciduous shrub with fragrant yellow (later orange) flowers in terminal whorls. southeastern united states
beefsteak begonia;rhizomatous begonia with roundish fleshy leaves reddish colored beneath
salvia lyrata;sage of eastern united states
silvery spleenwort;north american fern with narrow fronds on yellowish leafstalks
parophrys vitulus;popular pale brown food flatfish of the pacific coast of north america
passionflower;any of various chiefly tropical american vines some bearing edible fruit
red spruce;medium-sized spruce of eastern north america. chief lumber spruce of the area. source of pulpwood
american sweet gum;a north american tree of the genus liquidambar having prickly spherical fruit clusters and fragrant sap
triggerfish;any of numerous compressed deep-bodied tropical fishes with sandpapery skin and erectile spines in the first dorsal fin
french honeysuckle;european herb with small fragrant crimson or white spurred flowers
pouched mammal;mammals of which the females have a pouch (the marsupium) containing the teats where the young are fed and carried
silver lime;large tree native to eastern europe and asia minor having leaves with white tomentum on the under side. widely cultivated as an ornamental
black and gold garden spider;a widely distributed north american garden spider
american bittern;a kind of bittern
order accipitriformes;in some classifications an alternative name for the falconiformes
pinus parryana;5-needled pinon of southern california and northern baja california having (sometimes 3- or 4-needled showing hybridization from pinus californiarum)
saxifraga aizoides;tufted evergreen perennial having ciliate leaves and yellow corymbose flowers often spotted orange
strawflower;any of various plants of the genus helipterum
senna occidentalis;very leafy malodorous tropical weedy shrub whose seeds have been used as an adulterant for coffee. sometimes classified in genus cassia
douglas hemlock;lofty douglas fir of northwestern north america having short needles and egg-shaped cones
cetacean;large aquatic carnivorous mammal with fin-like forelimbs no hind limbs, including: whales. dolphins. porpoises. narwhals
dense blazing star;perennial of southeastern and central united states having very dense spikes of purple flowers. often cultivated for cut flowers
fen orchis;small terrestrial orchid of eastern north america and europe having two nearly basal leaves and dull yellow-green racemose flowers
lemaireocereus chichipe;tall treelike mexican cactus with edible red fruit
penstemon serrulatus;whorls of deep blue to dark purple flowers at tips of erect leafy stems. moist places from british columbia to oregon
maidenhair tree;deciduous dioecious chinese tree having fan-shaped leaves and fleshy yellow seeds. exists almost exclusively in cultivation especially as an ornamental street tree
american gallinule;american purple gallinule
elasmobranch;any of numerous fishes of the class chondrichthyes characterized by a cartilaginous skeleton and placoid scales: sharks. rays. skates
swallow tailed kite;graceful north american black-and-white kite
harpia harpyja;large black-and-white crested eagle of tropical america
allium triquetrum;european leek naturalized in great britain. leaves triangular in section
shittimwood;deciduous tree of southeastern united states and mexico
chile pine;large chilean evergreen conifer having intertwined branches and bearing edible nuts
paint indian;perennial north american plant with grayish hairy foliage yielding a red or yellow pigment
mountain sandwort;boreal or alpine sandwort
geum canadense;north american white-flowered avens
chilean rimu;about the hardiest podocarpaceae species. prostrate spreading shrub similar to mountain rimu. mountains of southern chile
sweet acacia;tropical american thorny shrub or small tree. fragrant yellow flowers used in making perfumery
ictonyx striata;ferret-sized muishond often tamed
pellaea atropurpurea;very short shallowly creeping north american fern usually growing on cliffs or walls and having dark glossy leaf axes
agave americana;widely cultivated american monocarpic plant with greenish-white flowers on a tall stalk. blooms only after ten to twenty years and then dies
cherry pepper;plant bearing small rounded usually pungent fruits
dhava;an indian tree of the family combretaceae that is a source of timber and gum
maned sheep;wild sheep of northern africa
golden potto;a kind of lemur
mistletoe family;in some classification includes viscaceae: parasitic or hemiparasitic shrublets or shrubs or small trees of tropical and temperate regions. attach to hosts by haustoria
discina;any fungus of the genus discina
ornamental;any plant grown for its beauty or ornamental value
tumble grass;north american grass with slender brushy panicles. often a weed on cultivated land
goshawk;large hawk of eurasia and north america used in falconry
mangold wurzel;beet with a large yellowish root. grown chiefly as cattle feed
alpine coltsfoot;rhizomatous herb with purple-red flowers suitable for groundcover. sometimes placed in genus tussilago
physalis ixocarpa;annual of mexico and southern united states having edible purplish viscid fruit resembling small tomatoes
prickle weed;perennial herb of north american prairies having dense heads of small white flowers
colorado beetle;black-and-yellow beetle that feeds in adult and larval stages on potato leaves. originally of eastern rocky mountains. now worldwide
flannelbush;any of several handsome evergreen shrubs of california and northern mexico having downy lobed leaves and showy yellow flowers
brooklime;european plant having low-lying stems with blue flowers often pink-flushed. sparsely naturalized in north america
horse mackerel;a california food fish
lymantriid;dull-colored moth whose larvae have tufts of hair on the body and feed on the leaves of many deciduous trees
abronia latifolia;plant having hemispherical heads of yellow trumpet-shaped flowers. found in coastal dunes from california to british columbia
anthrenus scrophulariae;a small black and red and white carpet beetle
mastotermes darwiniensis;australian termite. sole living species of mastotermes. called a living fossil. apparent missing link between cockroaches and termites
grevillea robusta;medium to tall fast-growing tree with orange flowers and feathery bipinnate leaves silky-hairy beneath. eastern australia
pagophilus groenlandicus;common arctic seal. the young are all white
edible mussel;dark-shelled edible mussel that lives attached to rocks
gray skate;common european skate used as food
lauhala;polynesian screw pine
apatosaurus;huge quadrupedal herbivorous dinosaur common in n. america in the late jurassic
lepidium alpina;small tufted perennial herb of mountains of central and southern europe having very small flowers of usually leafless stems. sometimes placed in genus lepidium
alder;north temperate shrubs or trees having toothed leaves and conelike fruit. bark is used in tanning and dyeing and the rot-resistant wood
artocarpus altilis;native to pacific islands and having edible fruit with a texture like bread
blue pike;variety inhabiting the great lakes
noctuid moth;usually dull-colored medium-sized nocturnal moth. the usually smooth-bodied larvae are destructive agricultural pests
red currant;cultivated european current bearing small edible red berries
southern flounder;flounder of southern united states
cariama cristata;brazilian cariama. sole representative of the genus cariama
arroyo willow;shrubby willow of the western united states
tursiops truncatus;the most common dolphin of north atlantic and mediterranean. often kept captive and trained to perform
reed bunting;european bunting inhabiting marshy areas
custard apple tree;any of several tropical american trees bearing fruit with soft edible pulp
greater kudu;a variety of kudu
shorebird;any of numerous wading birds that frequent mostly seashores and estuaries
alkali grass;plant of western north america having grasslike leaves and greenish-white flowers
caracara;any of various long-legged carion-eating hawks of south and central america
coontie;small tough woody zamia of florida and west indies and cuba. roots and half-buried stems yield an arrowroot
fraxinus quadrangulata;ash of central and southern united states with bluish-green foliage and hard brown wood
peewee;small olive-colored woodland flycatchers of eastern north america
apium graveolens;herb of europe and temperate asia
screwbean mesquite;shrub or small tree of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico having spirally twisted pods
portable saw;a portable circular saw (with a hand grip)
clitocybe subconnexa;an edible white agaric that fruits in dense clusters. the gills are narrow and crowded and the stalk in fleshy and unpolished
anchovy;tiny mediterranean fishes usually canned or salted. used for hors d'oeuvres or as seasoning in e.g. sauces
globe flower;any of several plants of the genus trollius having globose yellow flowers
tilapia nilotica;important food fish of the nile and other rivers of africa and asia minor
krigia bulbosa;small yellow-flowered herb resembling dandelions of central and southeastern united states
cypripedium acaule;once common rose pink woodland orchid of eastern north america
alaskan king crab;large edible crab of north pacific waters esp. along the coasts of alaska and japan
numida meleagris;w african bird having dark plumage mottled with white. native to africa but raised for food in many parts of the world
cantharellus cibarius;widely distributed edible mushroom rich yellow in color with a smooth cap and a pleasant apricot aroma
keyhole limpet;marine limpet having a conical shell with an opening at the apex
cow;mature female of mammals of which the male is called 'bull'
life form;"any living entity"
gymnospermous tree;any tree of the division gymnospermophyta
mistflower;rhizomatous plant of central and southeastern united states and west indies having large showy heads of clear blue flowers. sometimes placed in genus eupatorium
vinegar eel;minute eelworm that feeds on organisms that cause fermentation in e.g. vinegar
deinonychus;swift agile wolf-sized bipedal dinosaur having a large curved claw on each hind foot. of the cretaceous
hyaena brunnea;of southern africa
vesper sparrow;common north american finch noted for its evening song
collinsia bicolor;white and lavender to pale-blue flowers grow in perfect rings of widely spaced bands around the stems forming a kind of pagoda. california
allspice tree;aromatic west indian tree that produces allspice berries
genip;tropical american tree bearing a small edible fruit with green leathery skin and sweet juicy translucent pulp
zoysia;any of several creeping grasses of the genus zoysia
wild marjoram;aromatic eurasian perennial
calabash;tropical american evergreen that produces large round gourds
great plains paintbrush;hairy plant with pinkish flowers. great plains to northern mexico
field speedwell;european plant with minute axillary blue flowers on long stalks. widely naturalized in america
stinking elder;common north american shrub or small tree
mourning cloak;of temperate regions. having dark purple wings with yellow borders
spiranthes spiralis;european orchid having shorter racemes of strongly spiraling snow-white flowers
trifolium reflexum;clover of western united states
ajuga reptans;low rhizomatous european carpeting plant having spikes of blue flowers. naturalized in parts of united states
eucalyptus viminalis;tall tree yielding a false manna
chrysalis;pupa of a moth or butterfly enclosed in a cocoon
cockatoo;white or light-colored crested parrot of the australian region. often kept as cage birds
coturnix coturnix;the typical old world quail
garden plant;any of a variety of plants usually grown especially in a flower or herb garden
short billed marsh wren;small american wren inhabiting wet sedgy meadows
silky dogwood;shrub of eastern north america closely resembling silky cornel
panther lily;lily of western united states having orange-red to crimson maroon-spotted flowers
royal palm;tall feather palm of southern florida and cuba
tickseed;any of numerous plants of the genus coreopsis having a profusion of showy usually yellow daisylike flowers over long periods. north and south america
common nightshade;eurasian herb naturalized in america having white flowers and poisonous hairy foliage and bearing black berries that are sometimes poisonous but sometimes edible
grass pink;an orchid
black tailed deer;mule deer of western rocky mountains
yellow green algae;any alga of the division chrysophyta with its chlorophyll masked by yellow pigment
amboina pine;native to the moluccas and philippines. a source of dammar resin
cladorhyncus leucocephalum;web-footed australian stilt with reddish-brown pectoral markings
california quail;plump chunky bird of coastal california and oregon
leucadendron argenteum;small south african tree with long silvery silky foliage
herbs robert;a sticky low herb with small reddish-purple flowers. widespread in the northern hemisphere
king nut;hickory of the eastern united states resembling the shagbark but having a much larger nut
brit;the young of a herring or sprat or similar fish
trainer;a ground-training machine that simulates the conditions of flying a plane
soft finned fish;any fish of the superorder malacopterygii
marsh bellflower;bellflower common in marshes of eastern north america having lanceolate linear leaves and small whitish flowers
clerid beetle;predacious on other insects. usually brightly colored or metallic
viola tricolor;a common and long cultivated european herb from which most common garden pansies are derived
mojarra;small silvery schooling fishes with protrusible mouths found in warm coastal waters
scomberesox saurus;slender long-beaked fish of temperate atlantic waters
newfoundland dwarf birch;small shrub of colder parts of north america and greenland
kuvasz;long-established hungarian breed of tall light-footed but sturdy white dog. used also as a hunting dog
clupea sprattus;small herring processed like a sardine
candyweed;bog plant of pine barrens of southeastern united states having spikes of irregular yellow-orange flowers
arctostaphylos alpina;deciduous creeping shrub bright red in autumn having black or blue-black berries. alpine and circumpolar
cucurbita pepo;a coarse vine widely cultivated for its non-keeping large pulpy round orange fruit with firm orange skin and numerous seeds. subspecies of cucurbita pepo include the summer squashes and a few autumn squashes
cyathea medullaris;showy tree fern of new zealand and australia area having a crown of much-pinnated fronds with whitish undersides
black sage;aromatic wooly-leaved plant of southern california and mexico
tall meadow grass;coarse perennial eurasian oatlike grass found on roadside verges and rough grassland and in hay meadows. introduced in north america for forage
wild vanilla;perennial of southeastern united states with leaves having the fragrance of vanilla
western dewberry;american blackberry with oblong black fruit
living granite;highly succulent stemless clump-forming plants with gray-green leaves similar in texture to lumps of granite. south africa
costusroot;annual herb of the eastern himalayas (kashmir) having purple florets and a fragrant root that yields a volatile oil used in perfumery and for preserving furs
scilla;an old world plant of the genus scilla having narrow basal leaves and pink or blue or white racemose flowers
blindworm;small burrowing legless european lizard with tiny eyes. popularly believed to be blind
tricholoma flavovirens;an edible agaric with yellow gills and a viscid yellow cap that has a brownish center
pacific spiny dogfish;dogfish of pacific coast of north america
hyssop;a european mint with aromatic and pungent leaves used in perfumery and as a seasoning in cookery. often cultivated as a remedy for bruises. yields hyssop oil
meadow rue;any of various herbs of the genus thalictrum. sometimes rhizomatous or tuberous perennials found in damp shady places and meadows or stream banks. have lacy foliage and clouds of small purple or yellow flowers
sweet potato;pantropical vine widely cultivated in several varieties for its large sweet orange-fleshed tuberous root
wild ass;any of several plain-colored equine mammals of asia and northeast africa
epinephelus fulvus;black-spotted usually dusky-colored fish with reddish fins
apalachicola rosemary;small shrub of apalachicola river area in southeastern united states having highly aromatic pinkish flowers. a threatened species
angel wing begonia;south american fibrous-rooted begonias having prominent basal leaf lobes suggesting angels' wings and racemes of coral-red flowers
benzoin odoriferum;deciduous shrub of the eastern united states having highly aromatic leaves and bark and yellow flowers followed by scarlet or yellow berries
prenanthes alba;herb of northeastern north america having drooping clusters of yellowish-white flowers. sometimes placed in genus prenanthes
pediculus humanus;head or body louse
levisticum officinale;native to southern europe. cultivated for its edible stalks and foliage and seeds
acrocarpus fraxinifolius;east indian timber tree with hard durable wood used especially for tea boxes
platycladus orientalis;asiatic shrub or small tree widely planted in united states and europe. in some classifications assigned to its own genus platycladus
white admiral;north american butterfly with blue-black wings crossed by a broad white band
wood hyacinth;sometimes placed in genus scilla
bulblet fern;north american fern often bearing bulbils on the leaflets
bloodberry;bushy houseplant having white to pale pink flowers followed by racemes of scarlet berries. tropical americas
fleabane;common north american weed with linear leaves and small discoid heads of yellowish flowers. widely naturalized throughout temperate regions. sometimes placed in genus erigeron
whorled milkweed;milkweed of the eastern united states with narrow leaves in whorls and greenish-white flowers
draba verna;annual weed of europe and north america having a rosette of basal leaves and tiny flowers followed by oblong seed capsules
jeffrey s pine;tall symmetrical pine of western north america having long blue-green needles in bunches of 3 and elongated cones on spreading somewhat pendulous branches. sometimes classified as a variety of ponderosa pine
eohippus;earliest horse. extinct primitive dog-sized 4-toed eocene animal
marang tree;philippine tree similar to the breadfruit tree bearing edible fruit
giant taro;large evergreen with extremely large erect or spreading leaves. cultivated widely in tropics for its edible rhizome and shoots. used in wet warm regions as a stately ornamental
merlangus merlangus;a food fish of european atlantic waters resembling the cod. sometimes placed in genus gadus
anthonomus grandis;grayish weevil that lays its eggs in cotton bolls destroying the cotton
doob;trailing grass native to europe now cosmopolitan in warm regions. used for lawns and pastures especially in southern united states and india
cimicifuga americana;bugbane of the eastern united states having erect racemes of white flowers
ozark sundrops;evening-opening primrose of south central united states
damask rose;large hardy very fragrant pink rose. cultivated in asia minor as source of attar of roses. parent of many hybrids
american bittersweet;twining shrub of north america having three-valved yellow capsules enclosing scarlet seeds
giant armadillo;about three feet long exclusive of tail
seriphus politus;silvery and bluish drumfish of shallow california coastal waters
sugar sumac;evergreen shrub of southeastern united states with spikes of reddish-yellow flowers and glandular hairy fruits
riesling;white grape grown in europe and california
miterwort;any of various rhizomatous perennial herbs of the genus mitella having a capsule resembling a bishop's miter
cheilanthes eatonii;lip fern of texas to oklahoma and colorado and arizona and mexico having tall erect tufted fronds
lychnis coronaria;an old cottage garden plant of southeastern europe widely cultivated for its attractive white woolly foliage and showy crimson flowers
hedge mustard;stiffly branching old world annual with pale yellow flowers. widely naturalized in north america. formerly used medicinally
sundrops;a day-flowering biennial or perennial of the genus oenothera
haliaeetus pelagicus;found on coasts of western north pacific
common watercress;perennial eurasian cress growing chiefly in springs or running water having fleshy pungent leaves used in salads or as a potherb or garnish. introduced in north america and elsewhere
teucrium chamaedrys;european perennial subshrub with red-purple or bright rose flowers with red and white spots
eretmochelys imbricata;pugnacious tropical sea turtle with a hawk-like beak. source of food and the best tortoiseshell
carcharhinus plumbeus;most common gray shark along coasts of middle atlantic states. sluggish and occasionally caught by fishermen
peruvian lily;an andean herb having umbels of showy pinkish-purple lilylike flowers
gorilla gorilla grauri;a kind of gorilla
yellow giant hyssop;erect perennial with stout stems and yellow-green flowers. southern canada and southeastern united states
ornithischian dinosaur;herbivorous dinosaur with a pelvis like that of a bird
corylus americana;nut-bearing shrub of eastern north america
wall germander;european perennial subshrub with red-purple or bright rose flowers with red and white spots
wax bean;a common bean plant grown for its edible golden pod
clinton s lily;any temperate liliaceous plant of the genus clintonia having broad basal leaves and white or yellowish or purplish flowers followed by blue or black berries
dhak;east indian tree bearing a profusion of intense vermilion velvet-textured blooms and yielding a yellow dye
sirenian;any of two families of large herbivorous aquatic mammals with paddle-shaped tails and flipper-like forelimbs and no hind limbs
kok sagyz;perennial dandelion native to kazakh republic of russia cultivated for its fleshy roots which have high rubber content
climbing hempweed;herb of tropical america having vanilla-scented flowers. climbs up trees
common mugwort;european tufted aromatic perennial herb having hairy red or purple stems and dark green leaves downy white below and red-brown florets
quercus kelloggii;large deciduous tree of the pacific coast having deeply parted bristle-tipped leaves
trichomonad;cause of trichomoniasis in women and cattle and birds
rose apple;tropical tree of the east indies cultivated for its edible fruit
conodont;small (2 in) extinct eellike fish with a finned tail and a notochord and having cone-shaped teeth containing cellular bone. late cambrian to late triassic. possible predecessor of the cyclostomes
heritiera littoralis;small tree of coastal regions of old world tropics whose leaves are silvery beneath
bullrush;tall marsh plant with pokerlike seed heads that explode when mature shedding large quantities of down. its long flat leaves are used for making mats and chair seats. of north america, europe, asia and north africa
ouzel;common black european thrush
caprimulgiform bird;long-winged nonpasserine birds
power tool;"a motor-driven tool"a motor-driven tool
butterfly plant;orchid having large elliptic to obovate fleshy leaves and fragrant pink-and-white flowers dotted with red
polyplacophore;primitive elongated bilaterally symmetrical marine mollusk having a mantle covered with eight calcareous plates
clematis vitalba;vigorous deciduous climber of europe to afghanistan and lebanon having panicles of fragrant green-white flowers in summer and autumn
leucaena glauca;low scrubby tree of tropical and subtropical north america having white mimosalike flowers tinged with yellow and long flattened pods
titi family;shrubs and trees with leathery leaves and small white flowers in racemes: genera cyrilla and cliftonia
kauri;tall timber tree of new zealand having white straight-grained wood
lupinus luteus;yellow-flowered european lupine cultivated for forage
sorrel;any plant or flower of the genus oxalis
white fairy lantern;globe lily having open branched clusters of egg-shaped white flowers. southern california
strix varia;large owl of eastern north america having its breast and abdomen streaked with brown
jackknife fish;black-and-white drumfish with an erect elongated dorsal fin
shumard red oak;large deciduous red oak of southern and eastern united states having large 7- to 9-lobed elliptical leaves, large acorns and medium hard coarse-grained wood
true slime mold;a slime mold of the class myxomycetes
swamp chestnut oak;medium to large deciduous tree of moist areas of southeastern united states similar to the basket oak
ginseng;chinese herb with palmately compound leaves and small greenish flowers and forked aromatic roots believed to have medicinal powers
sunflower;any plant of the genus helianthus having large flower heads with dark disk florets and showy yellow rays
rice;annual or perennial rhizomatous marsh grasses. seed used for food. straw used for paper
lake salmon;atlantic salmon confined to lakes of new england and southeastern canada
permanence;the property of being able to exist for an indefinite durationthe property of being able to exist for an indefinite duration
mangifera indica;large evergreen tropical tree cultivated for its large oval smooth-skinned fruit
attalea funifera;brazilian palm yielding fibers used in making ropes, mats, and brushes
annunciation lily;lily of eastern mediterranean and the balkans with broad funnel-shaped white flowers
cotinus obovatus;shrubby tree of southern united states having large plumes of feathery flowers resembling puffs of smoke
mastodon;extinct elephant-like mammal that flourished worldwide from miocene through pleistocene times. differ from mammoths in the form of the molar teeth
japan allspice;deciduous japanese shrub cultivated for its fragrant yellow flowers
smooth bark kauri;australian timber tree resembling the kauri but having wood much lighter in weight and softer
jigger;larval mite that sucks the blood of vertebrates including human beings causing intense irritation
pembroke;the smaller and straight-legged variety of corgi having pointed ears and a short tail
pink and white everlasting;flower of southwestern australia having bright pink daisylike papery flowers. grown for drying
deer grass;any of several plants of the genus rhexia usually having pink-purple to magenta flowers. eastern north america
wintergreen;creeping shrub of eastern north america having white bell-shaped flowers followed by spicy red berrylike fruit and shiny aromatic leaves that yield wintergreen oil
elephant s foot;any plant of the genus elephantopus having heads of blue or purple flowers. america
false lupine;western united states bushy herb having yellow pealike flowers
cow lily;common water lily of eastern and central north america, having broad leaves and globe-shaped yellow flowers. in sluggish fresh or slightly brackish water
diapheromera;a variety of stick insect
deer tick;a northeastern tick now recognized as same species as ixodes scapularis
paper nautilus;cephalopod mollusk of warm seas whose females have delicate papery spiral shells
snowbird;white arctic bunting
clostridium;spindle-shaped bacterial cell esp. one swollen at the center by an endospore
ferret;domesticated albino variety of the european polecat bred for hunting rats and rabbits
red hot poker;widely cultivated hybrid poker plant
jack in the pulpit;common american spring-flowering woodland herb having sheathing leaves and an upright club-shaped spadix with overarching green and purple spathe producing scarlet berries
coffee senna;very leafy malodorous tropical weedy shrub whose seeds have been used as an adulterant for coffee. sometimes classified in genus cassia
rorippa islandica;annual or biennial cress growing in damp places sometimes used in salads or as a potherb. troublesome weed in some localities
tobacco moth;small moth whose larvae feed on tobacco and other dried plant products
eriophyllum lanatum;grayish woolly leafy perennial with branched stems ending in leafless stalks bearing golden-yellow flower heads. dry areas western north america
sheep tick;wingless fly that is an external parasite on sheep and cattle
raptor;any of numerous carnivorous birds that hunt and kill other animals
chicory plant;perennial old world herb having rayed flower heads with blue florets cultivated for its root and its heads of crisp edible leaves used in salads
cayenne;plant bearing very hot and finely tapering long peppers. usually red
gutierrezia microcephala;similar to gutierrezia sarothrae but with flower heads having fewer rays and disk flowers
oldwife;tropical atlantic fish
caddisworm;caddisfly larva. constructs a case of silk covered with sand or plant debris
killarney fern;large stout fern of extreme western europe
bluefin;largest tuna. to 1500 pounds. of mostly temperate seas: feed in polar regions but breed in tropics
viceroy;showy american butterfly resembling the monarch but smaller
scombroid fish;important marine food and game fishes found in all tropical and temperate seas. some are at least partially endothermic and can thrive in colder waters
pyrethrum;spring-flowering garden perennial of asiatic origin having finely divided aromatic leaves and white to pink-purple flowers. source of an insecticide. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
seventeen year locust;north american cicada. appears in great numbers at infrequent intervals because the nymphs take 13' to 17' years to mature
calliphora vicina;blowfly with iridescent blue body. makes a loud buzzing noise in flight
salpichroa organifolia;weedy vine of argentina having solitary white flowers followed by egg-shaped white or yellow fruit
corn salad;a plant of the genus valerianella
cowherb;european annual with pale rose-colored flowers. cultivated flower or self-sown grainfield weed. introduced in north america. sometimes classified as a soapwort
eucalyptus tree;a tree of the genus eucalyptus
creature;a living organism characterized by voluntary movement
latrodectus mactans;venomous new world spider. the female is black with an hourglass-shaped red mark on the underside of the abdomen
kidney vetch;perennial eurasian herb having heads of red or yellow flowers and common in meadows and pastures. formerly used medicinally for kidney disorders
longhorn;long-horned beef cattle formerly common in southwestern united states
epidendrum tampense;orchid of florida and the bahamas having showy brightly colored flowers. sometimes placed in genus epidendrum
yellow globe lily;globe lily having open branched clusters of clear yellow egg-shaped flowers. northern california
brassica oleracea capitata;any of various cultivated cabbage plants having a short thick stalk and large compact head of edible usually green leaves
carissa bispinosa;south african shrub having forked spines and plumlike fruit. frequently used as hedging
common broom;deciduous erect spreading broom native to western europe. widely cultivated for its rich yellow flowers
congoo mallee;small shrubby mallee
wood warbler;european woodland warbler with dull yellow plumage
asclepias purpurascens;perennial of eastern north america having pink-purple flowers
jellyfish;any of numerous usually marine and free-swimming coelenterates that constitute the sexually reproductive forms of hydrozoans and scyphozoans
halogeton;a coarse annual herb introduced into north america from siberia. dangerous to sheep and cattle on western rangelands because of its high oxalate content
gopher snake;large dark-blue nonvenomous snake that invades burrows. found in southern north america and mexico
european white birch;european birch with silvery white peeling bark and markedly drooping branches
macrotus;large-eared grayish bat of southern california and northwestern mexico
cardigan;slightly bow-legged variety of corgi having rounded ears and a long tail
water turkey;blackish new world snakebird of swampy regions
skeleton fork fern;pantropical epiphytic or terrestrial whisk fern with usually dull yellow branches and minute leaves. america. japan. australia
orchis papilionaceae;mediterranean orchid having usually purple flowers with a fan-shaped spotted or striped rose-red lip
canafistula;deciduous or semi-evergreen tree having scented sepia to yellow flowers in drooping racemes and pods whose pulp is used medicinally. tropical asia and central and south america and australia
melissa officinalis;bushy perennial old world mint having small white or yellowish flowers and fragrant lemon-flavored leaves. a garden escapee in northern europe and north america
phaseolus aconitifolius;east indian legume having hairy foliage and small yellow flowers followed by cylindrical pods. used especially in india for food and forage and soil-conditioning. sometimes placed in genus phaseolus
heuchera cylindrica;plant with leathery heart-shaped leaf blades clustered at base of long stalks with greenish-white flowers clustered along the upper part. western north america
colutea arborescens;yellow-flowered european shrub cultivated for its succession of yellow flowers and very inflated bladdery pods and as a source of wildlife food
mercenaria mercenaria;an edible american clam
witloof;widely cultivated herb with leaves valued as salad green. either curly serrated leaves or broad flat ones that are usually blanched
cider mill;extracts juice from apples to make apple cider
sterculia acerifolia;south australian tree having panicles of brilliant scarlet flowers
venushair;delicate maidenhair fern with slender shining black leaf stalks. cosmopolitan
solanum aviculare;australian annual sometimes cultivated for its racemes of purple flowers and edible yellow egg-shaped fruit
conic verpa;a morel with a fertile portion that has a relatively smooth surface. the stalk is fragile
tobacco;aromatic annual or perennial herbs and shrubs
cotton mouse;large dark mouse of southeastern united states
false mallow;an american plant of the genus malvastrum
anthropoid ape;any tailless ape of the families pongidae and hylobatidae
allis;european shad
clianthus;any of various shrubs or vines of the genus clianthus having compound leaves and pealike red flowers in drooping racemes
caltrop;tropical annual procumbent poisonous subshrub having fruit that splits into five spiny nutlets. serious pasture weed
coccothraustes coccothraustes;a common large finch of eurasia
neohygrophorus angelesianus;a fungus with a small brown convex cap with a depressed disc. waxy wine-colored gills and a brown stalk. fruits in or near melting snow banks in the western mountains of north america
pride of bolivia;semi-evergreen south american tree with odd-pinnate leaves and golden yellow flowers cultivated as an ornamental
rose beetle;a common metallic green european beetle: larvae feed on plant roots and adults on leaves and flowers of e.g. roses
swan river daisy;western australian annual much cultivated for its flower heads with white or bluish to violet or variegated rays
chinese elm;small fast-growing tree native to asia. widely grown as shelterbelts and hedges
palma christ;large shrub of tropical africa and asia having large palmate leaves and spiny capsules containing seeds that are the source of castor oil and ricin. widely naturalized throughout the tropics
cinquefoil;any of a numerous plants grown for their 5-petal flowers. abundant in temperate regions. alleged to have medicinal properties
apium graveolens rapaceum;grown for its thickened edible aromatic root
telopea speciosissima;straggling shrub with narrow leaves and conspicuous red flowers in dense globular racemes
myrtle;any evergreen shrub or tree of the genus myrtus
marine mussel;marine bivalve mollusk having a dark elongated shell. live attached to solid objects esp. in intertidal zones
brassica oleracea italica;plant with dense clusters of tight green flower buds
gold tail moth;white furry-bodied european moth with a yellow tail tuft
allium ursinum;pungent old world weedy plant
convolvulus arvensis;weakly climbing european perennial with white or pink flowers. naturalized in north america and an invasive weed
surffish;fish of north american pacific coast
lanius lucovicianus;common shrike of southeastern united states having black eye-bands
american watercress;of southwestern europe. cultivated in florida
anguid lizard;any of a small family of lizards widely distributed in warm areas. all are harmless and useful as destroyers of e.g. slugs and insects
imperial japanese morning glory;hybrid from ipomoea nil
stapling machine;a machine that inserts stales into sheets of paper in order to fasten them together
capulin;mexican black cherry tree having edible fruit
papaver rhoeas;annual european poppy common in grain fields and often cultivated
spinus tristis;american finch whose male has yellow body plumage in summer
bottlenose dolphin;any of several dolphins with rounded forehead and well-developed beak. chiefly of north atlantic and mediterranean
water plant;a plant that grows partly or wholly in water whether rooted in the mud, as a lotus, or floating without anchorage, as the water hyacinth
moss;tiny leafy-stemmed flowerless plants
decapod;cephalopods having eight short tentacles plus two long ones
water vole;of western north america
cherry tree;any of numerous trees and shrubs producing a small fleshy round fruit with a single hard stone. many also produce a valuable hardwood
waxflower;twining woody vine of madagascar having thick dark waxy evergreen leaves and clusters of large fragrant waxy white flowers along the stems. widely cultivated in warm regions
granadillo;west indian tree yielding a fine grade of green ebony
jocote;common tropical american shrub or small tree with purplish fruit
ohio buckeye;a buckeye with scaly gray bark that is found in the central united states
ruta graveolens;european strong-scented perennial herb with gray-green bitter-tasting leaves. an irritant similar to poison ivy
fen orchid;small terrestrial orchid of eastern north america and europe having two nearly basal leaves and dull yellow-green racemose flowers
sour cherry;australian tree with sour red fruit
blackcap;raspberry native to eastern north america having black thimble-shaped fruit
phyllostachys aurea;small bamboo of southeastern china having slender culms flexuous when young
tanacetum cinerariifolium;white-flowered pyrethrum of balkan area whose pinnate leaves are white and silky-hairy below. source of an insecticide. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
stone bramble;european trailing bramble with red berrylike fruits
formica fusca;an ant frequently enslaved
slipperwort;any garden plant of the genus calceolaria having flowers with large inflated slipper-shaped lower lip
silver leaved poplar;a poplar that is widely cultivated in the united states. has white bark and leaves with whitish undersurfaces
adder;small terrestrial viper common in northern eurasia
zostera marina;submerged marine plant with very long narrow leaves found in abundance along north atlantic coasts
florist s willow;much-branched old world willow having large catkins and relatively large broad leaves
lysiloma sabicu;west indian tree yielding la hard dark born wood resembling mahogany in texture and value
felis yagouaroundi;long-bodied long-tailed tropical american wildcat
giant timber bamboo;large bamboo having thick-walled culms. native of china and perhaps japan. widely brown elsewhere
gentianopsid procera;small blue-flowered fringed gentian of east central north america
mushroom;common name for an edible agaric (contrasting with the inedible toadstool)
vangueria madagascariensis;shrubby tree of madagascar occasionally cultivated for its edible apple-shaped fruit
dwarf cape gooseberry;stout hairy annual of eastern north america with sweet yellow fruits
creeping charlie;a loosestrife vine
stapelia;any of various plants of the genus stapelia having succulent leafless toothed cactus-like stems and large evil-smelling flowers often star-shaped
pandion haliaetus;large harmless hawk found worldwide that feeds on fish and builds a bulky nest often occupied for years
ipomoea panurata;tropical american prostrate or climbing herbaceous perennial having an enormous starchy root. sometimes held to be source of the sweet potato
rushgrass;grass having wiry stems and sheathed panicles
osage orange;small shrubby deciduous yellowwood tree of south central united states having spines, glossy dark green leaves and inedible orangelike fruit. its hard orange-colored wood used for bows by native americans. frequently planted as boundary hedge
giant pigfish;found around the great barrier reef
endive;widely cultivated herb with leaves valued as salad green. either curly serrated leaves or broad flat ones that are usually blanched
allegheny chinkapin;shrubby chestnut tree of southeastern united states having small edible nuts
hypericum androsaemum;deciduous bushy eurasian shrub with golden yellow flowers and reddish-purple fruits from which a soothing salve is made in spain
araucaria araucana;large chilean evergreen conifer having intertwined branches and bearing edible nuts
pearl millet;tall grass having cattail like spikes. grown in africa and asia for its grain and in the united states chiefly for forage. sometimes used in making beer
wormwood;any of several low composite herbs of the genera artemisia or seriphidium
giant scallop;large scallop inhabiting deep waters of the north american atlantic coast
yellow breasted bunting;common in russia and siberia
sarcodes sanguinea;a fleshy bright red saprophytic plant of the mountains of western north america that appears in early spring while snow is on the ground
film fern;any fern of the genus hymenophyllum growing in tropical humid regions and having translucent leaves
norfolk island pine;evergreen of australia and norfolk island in the south pacific
mossycup oak;medium to large deciduous oak of central and eastern north america with ovoid acorns deeply immersed in large fringed cups. yields tough close-grained wood
eucalyptusd eugenioides;stringybark having white wood
annual;a plant that completes its entire life cycle within the space of a year
helianthus laetiflorus;tall rough-leaved perennial with a few large flower heads. central united states
polygala alba;perennial bushy herb of central and southern united states having white flowers with green centers and often purple crest. similar to seneca snakeroot
congo snake;aquatic eel-shaped salamander having two pairs of very small feet. of still muddy waters in the southern united states
longroot;deep-rooted perennial of southeastern united states
cross vine;woody flowering vine of southern united states. stems show a cross in transverse section
protea cynaroides;south african shrub whose flowers when open are cup- or goblet-shaped resembling globe artichokes
indian mallow;tall annual herb or subshrub of tropical asia having velvety leaves and yellow flowers and yielding a strong fiber. naturalized in southeastern europe and united states
miniature schnauzer;a small schnauzer
pomelo;southeastern asian tree producing large fruits resembling grapefruits
false bracken;resembles pteridium aquilinum. of queensland australia
fritillaria agrestis;a malodorous california herb with bell-shaped flowers. a common weed in grainfields
engraulis encrasicholus;esteemed for its flavor. usually preserved or used for sauces and relishes
white willow;large willow tree of eurasia and north africa having grayish canescent leaves and gray bark
wapiti;large north american deer with large much-branched antlers
scorpion fish;marine fishes having a tapering body with an armored head and venomous spines
false dogwood;evergreen of tropical america having pulpy fruit containing saponin which was used as soap by native americans
water buttercup;plant of ponds and slow streams having submerged and floating leaves and white flowers. europe and north america
lowland burrowing treefrog;terrestrial burrowing nocturnal frog of grassy terrain and scrub forests having very hard upper surface of head. of the united states southwest
man eating shark;large aggressive shark widespread in warm seas. known to attack humans
honeysuckle;shrubby tree with silky foliage and spikes of cylindrical yellow nectarous flowers
camptosorus rhizophyllus;ferns having lanceolate fronds that root at the tip
vinca major;plant having variegated foliage and used for window boxes
cube;any of several tropical american woody plants of the genus lonchocarpus whose roots are used locally as a fish poison and commercially as a source of rotenone
firebrat;lives in warm moist areas e.g. around furnaces
fish hawk;large harmless hawk found worldwide that feeds on fish and builds a bulky nest often occupied for years
pithecellodium unguis cati;erect shrub with small if any spines having racemes of white to yellow flowers followed by curved pointed pods and black shiny seeds. west indies and florida
eastern silvery aster;a variety of aster
viper;venomous old world snakes characterized by hollow venom-conducting fangs in the upper jaw
brewer s yeast;used as a leaven in baking and brewing
western yellow pine;common and widely distributed tall timber pine of western north america having dark green needles in bunches of 2 to 5 and thick bark with dark brown plates when mature
prince s pine;any of several plants of the genus chimaphila
tuber root;erect perennial of eastern and southern united states having showy orange flowers
myrtle oak;small evergreen shrub or tree of southeastern united states. often forms almost impenetrable thickets in sandy coastal areas
ichthyosaur;any of several marine reptiles of the mesozoic having a body like a porpoise with dorsal and tail fins and paddle-shaped limbs
asarum canadense;deciduous low-growing perennial of canada and eastern and central united states
milking machine;a suction apparatus for milking cows mechanically
picea abies;tall pyramidal spruce native to northern europe having dark green foliage on spreading branches with pendulous branchlets and long pendulous cones
pipa americana;south american toad. incubates its young in pits in the skin of its back
coin machine;a machine that is operated by the insertion of a coin in a slot
spanish dagger;yucca of southeastern united states similar to the spanish bayonets but with shorter trunk and smoother leaves
cellular slime mold;differing from true slime molds in being cellular and nucleate throughout the life cycle
browntail;small brown-and_white european moth introduced into eastern united states. pest of various shade and fruit trees
jellow jessamine;poisonous woody evergreen vine of southeastern united states having fragrant yellow funnel-shaped flowers
crappie;small sunfishes of central united states rivers
tuna;any very large marine food and game fish of the genus thunnus. related to mackerel. chiefly of warm waters
acorn squash;squash plant bearing small yellow-fleshed acorn-shaped fruits having dark green or yellow rind with longitudinal ridges
podiceps grisegena;large stocky grebe of circumpolar regions having a dark neck
climbing onion;much-branched leafless twining south african herb cultivated as an ornamental for its bright green stems growing from large above-ground bulbs
blackberry;bramble with sweet edible black or dark purple berries that usually do not separate from the receptacle
desert rose;south african shrub having a swollen succulent stem and bearing showy pink and white flowers after the leaves fall. popular as an ornamental in tropics
bluebird;blue north american songbird
ficus carica;mediterranean tree widely cultivated for its edible fruit
leatherwood;deciduous shrub of eastern north america having tough flexible branches and pliable bark and small yellow flowers
bigeye scad;of atlantic coastal waters. commonly used for bait
stokesia laevis;erect perennial of southeastern united states having large heads of usually blue flowers
cinchona calisaya;peruvian shrub or small tree having large glossy leaves and cymes of fragrant yellow to green or red flowers. cultivated for its medicinal bark
percoid;any of numerous spiny-finned fishes of the order perciformes
bunt;similar to tilletia caries
kitty cat;informal terms
raja batis;common european skate used as food
brunfelsia americana;west indian shrub with fragrant showy yellowish-white flowers
flanders poppy;annual european poppy common in grain fields and often cultivated
milkwort;any of various plants of the genus polygala
poodle dog;an intelligent dog with a heavy curly solid-colored coat that is usually clipped. an old breed sometimes trained as sporting dogs or as performing dogs
sweet calabash;west indian passionflower with edible apple-sized fruit
amatungulu;very large closely branched south african shrub having forked bright green spines and shiny leaves
phylloscopus sibilatrix;european woodland warbler with dull yellow plumage
scrub oak;any of various chiefly american small shrubby oaks often a dominant form on thin dry soils sometimes forming dense thickets
makaira marlina;pacific marlin
plains spadefoot;of plains and hills and river bottoms in areas of low rainfall east of the rocky mountains
chenopodium ambrosioides;rank-smelling tropical american pigweed
diplotaxis erucoides;from mediterranean region. a naturalized weed throughout southern europe
retem;desert shrub of syria and arabia having small white flowers. constitutes the juniper of the old testament. sometimes placed in genus genista
wheel bug;large predatory north american bug that sucks the blood of other insects
rutabaga;plant with a thick bulbous edible yellow root. used as food and animal feed
dentaria bulbifera;european bittercress having a knotted white rootstock
cercaria;tadpole-shaped parasitic larva of a trematode worm. tail disappears in adult stage
nerveroot;once common rose pink woodland orchid of eastern north america
strength;permanence by virtue of the power to resist stress or force. 'they advertised the durability of their products'
gnu;large african antelope having a head with horns like an ox and a long tufted tail
hickory tree;american hardwood tree bearing edible nuts
dicynodont;a kind of therapsid
foxtail barley;barley grown for its highly ornamental flower heads with delicate long silky awns. north america and northeastern asia
vanessa atalanta;of temperate europe and asia. having black wings with red and white markings
hakea leucoptera;large bushy shrub with pungent pointed leaves and creamy white flowers. central and eastern australia
vaccinium myrsinites;shrub of the eastern united states having shining evergreen leaves and bluish-black fruit
hybrid tuberous begonia;any of numerous hybrid begonias having tuberous roots and variously colored flowers
boa;any of several chiefly tropical constrictors with vestigial hind limbs
phthorimaea operculella;larva of potato moth. mines in leaves and stems of e.g. potatoes and tobacco
rose leek;north american bulbous plant
american mink;usually rich dark brown
tragelaphus buxtoni;shaggy antelope of mountains of ethiopia
relict;an organism or species surviving as a remnant of an otherwise extinct flora or fauna in an environment much changed from that in which it originated
eastern woodrat;large grayish-brown woodrat of the southeastern united states
olearia haastii;bushy new zealand shrub cultivated for its fragrant white flower heads
cotton strain;feeds primarily on cotton
lepus townsendi;largest hare of northern plains and western mountains of united states. brownish-gray in summer and pale gray in winter. tail nearly always all white
wrack;growth of marine vegetation esp. of the large forms such as rockweeds and kelp
leatherwood;shrub or small tree of southeastern united states to west indies and brazil. grown for the slender racemes of white flowers and orange-crimson foliage
brush tail porcupine;porcupine with a tuft of large beaded bristles on the tail
riflebird;velvety black australian bird of paradise with green and purple iridescence on head and tail
confederate rose;chinese shrub or small tree having white or pink flowers becoming deep red at night. widely cultivated. naturalized in southeastern united states
black birch;common birch of the eastern united states having spicy brown bark yielding a volatile oil and hard dark wood used for furniture
mylodon;large (bear-sized) extinct edentate mammal of the pleistocene in south america
stumpknocker;inhabits streams from s carolina to florida. esteemed panfish
hawksbill turtle;pugnacious tropical sea turtle with a hawk-like beak. source of food and the best tortoiseshell
sprigtail;large grouse of prairies and open forests of western north america
fieldmouse;any nocturnal old world mouse of the genus apodemus inhabiting woods and fields and gardens
zucchini;marrow squash plant whose fruit are eaten when small
megaptera novaeangliae;large whalebone whale with long flippers noted for arching or humping its back as it dives
corn speedwell;erect or procumbent blue-flowered annual found in waste places of europe and america
razorbacked hog;thin-bodied mongrel hog of southeastern united states that is a wild or semi-wild descendant of improved breeds
delairea odorata;south african succulent evergreen twining climber with yellow flowers grown primarily as a houseplant for its ivylike foliage. sometimes placed in genus senecio
buddleia;tropical shrub having clusters of white or violet or yellow flowers
hairy legged vampire bat;similar in size and habits to desmodus rotundus. of tropical america including southern california and texas
arishth;large semi-evergreen tree of east india. trunk exudes a tenacious gum. bitter bark used as a tonic. seeds yield an aromatic oil. sometimes placed in genus melia
galax;tufted evergreen perennial herb having spikes of tiny white flowers and glossy green round to heart-shaped leaves that become coppery to maroon or purplish in fall
redbud;small shrubby tree of eastern north america similar to the judas tree having usually pink flowers. found in damp sheltered underwood
head louse;infests the head and body of humans
marmota monax;reddish_brown north american marmot
larch;any of numerous conifers of the genus larix all having deciduous needlelike leaves
tayra;long-tailed arboreal mustelid of central and south america
jordan almond;variety of large almond from malaga, spain. used in confectionery
calla;south african plant widely cultivated for its showy pure white spathe and yellow spadix
field pansy;common old world viola with creamy often violet-tinged flowers
berberis thunbergii;compact deciduous shrub having persistent red berries. widespread in cultivation especially for hedges
homo;any living or extinct member of the family hominidae
lanius ludovicianus migrans;of central north america. winters in texas and the south mississippi valley
phlox subulata;low tufted perennial phlox with needlelike evergreen leaves and pink or white flowers. native to united states and widely cultivated as a ground cover
sycamore;any of several trees of the genus platanus having thin pale bark that scales off in small plates and lobed leaves and ball-shaped heads of fruits
rocky mountain dogbane;north american plant similar to common dogbane
spring cankerworm;variably colored looper. larva of paleacrita vernata
agaric;fungus used in the preparation of punk for fuses
common caper;prostrate spiny shrub of the mediterranean region cultivated for its greenish flower buds which are pickled
cinchona;any of several trees of the genus cinchona
pleurodont;an animal having teeth consolidate with the inner surface of the alveolar ridge without sockets
baby;a very young mammal: 'baby rabbits'
komondor;hungarian breed of large powerful shaggy-coated white dog. used also as guard dog
tower mustard;or genus arabis: erect cress widely distributed throughout europe
atriplex hortensis;asiatic plant resembling spinach often used as a potherb. naturalized in europe and north america
manta;extremely large pelagic tropical ray that feeds on plankton and small fishes. usually harmless but its size make it dangerous if harpooned
htlv 1;retrovirus causing t-cell leukemia
himantopus himantopus;stilt of europe and africa and asia having mostly white plumage but with black wings
parula americana;small gray-blue wood warbler with yellow throat and breast. of eastern north america
cedrus libani;cedar of lebanon and northwestern syria that attains great age and height
lettuce;any of various plants of the genus lactuca
hedysarum coronarium;perennial of southern europe cultivated for forage and for its nectar-rich pink flowers that make it an important honey crop
bead fern;beautiful spreading fern of eastern north america and eastern asia naturalized in western europe. pinnately divided fronds show a slight tendency to fold when touched. pinnules enclose groups of sori in beadlike lobes
cucurbita mixta;plant bearing squash having globose to ovoid fruit with variously striped gray and green and white warty rinds
two toed sloth;relatively small fast-moving sloth
remora;marine fishes with a flattened elongated body and a sucking disk on the head for attaching to large fish or moving objects
philaenus spumarius;north american insect that severely damages grasses
hydrangea;any of various deciduous or evergreen shrubs of the genus hydrangea
scorpion;arachnid of warm dry regions having a long segmented tail ending in a venomous sting
langset;east indian tree bearing an edible yellow berry
rock rose;small shrubs of scrub and dry woodland regions of southern europe and north africa. grown for their showy flowers and soft often downy and aromatic evergreen foliage
rocket larkspur;commonly cultivated larkspur of southern europe having unbranched spikelike racemes of blue or sometimes purplish or pinkish flowers. sometime placed in genus delphinium
masticophis lateralis;a whipsnake of scrublands and rocky hillsides
platy;small stocky mexican fish. popular aquarium fish
canada porcupine;porcupine of northeastern north america with barbed spines concealed in the coarse fur. often gnaws buildings for salt and grease
tree of heaven;deciduous rapidly growing tree of china with sumaclike foliage and sweetish fetid flowers. widely planted in united states as a street tree because of its resistance to pollution
stamp;a heavy bar that moves vertically for crushing ores
daddy longlegs;spider-like arachnid with a small rounded body and very long thin legs
pikeperch;any of several pike-like fishes of the perch family
gleditsia triacanthos;tall usually spiny north american tree having small greenish-white flowers in drooping racemes followed by long twisting seed pods. yields very hard durable reddish-brown wood. introduced to temperate old world
japanese cedar;tall evergreen of japan and china yielding valuable soft wood
sarcostemma acidum;leafless east indian vine. its sour milky juice formerly used to make an intoxicating drink
pepperwood;pacific coast tree having aromatic foliage and small umbellate flowers followed by olivelike fruit. yields a hard tough wood
slowworm;small burrowing legless european lizard with tiny eyes. popularly believed to be blind
timber rattlesnake;widely distributed in rugged ground of eastern united states
carnivore;any animal that feeds on flesh: 'tyrannosaurus rex was a large carnivore'. 'insectivorous plants are considered carnivores'
gerbille;small old world burrowing desert rodent with long soft pale fur and hind legs adapted for leaping
common ageratum;small tender herb grown for its fluffy brushlike blue to lavender blooms
sea lyme grass;a dune grass of the pacific seacoast used as a sand binder
sweet lemon;lemon tree having fruit with a somewhat insipid sweetish pulp
banksia;any shrub or tree of the genus banksia having alternate leathery leaves apetalous yellow flowers often in showy heads and conelike fruit with winged seeds
river red gum;somewhat crooked red gum tree growing chiefly along rivers. has durable reddish lumber used in heavy construction
broom palm;small palm of southern florida and west indies closely resembling the silvertop palmetto
charadrius morinellus;rare plover of upland areas of eurasia
silky tamarin;golden south american monkey with long soft hair forming a mane
northern scup;found in atlantic coastal waters of north america from south carolina to maine. esteemed as a panfish
musk rose;rose native to mediterranean region having curved or climbing branches and loose clusters of musky-scented flowers
long clawed prawn;large (a foot or more) edible freshwater prawn common in australian rivers
cabbage bark tree;tree with shaggy unpleasant-smelling toxic bark and yielding strong durable wood. bark and seeds used as a purgative and vermifuge and narcotic
spike moss;any of numerous fern allies of the genus selaginella
citrus whitefly;whitefly that attacks citrus trees
nothofagus procera;large chilean timber tree yielding coarse lumber
bee beetle;european beetle. infests beehives
lark;small songbirds resembling larks
hog plum;small native american shrubby tree bearing small edible yellow to reddish fruit
entire;uncastrated adult male horse
jasmine;any of several shrubs and vines of the genus jasminum chiefly native to asia
bluegill;important edible sunfish of eastern and central united states
japanese chess;grass of mediterranean and temperate asia
hygrotrama foetens;a small gray-brown fungus with an unpleasant odor of mothballs
leveret;a young hare especially one in its first year
solenostemon scutellarioides;perennial aromatic herb of southeastern asia having large usually bright-colored or blotched leaves and spikes of blue-violet flowers. sometimes placed in genus solenostemon
algarroba;evergreen mediterranean tree with edible pods. the biblical carob
reed;tall woody perennial grasses with hollow slender stems especially of the genera arundo and phragmites
pisanosaur;primitive dinosaur found in argentina
myrmecophyte;plant that affords shelter or food to ants that live in symbiotic relations with it
american raspberry;red raspberry of north america
tickseed sunflower;north american bur marigold with large flowers
durum wheat;wheat with hard dark-colored kernels high in gluten and used for bread and pasta. grown especially in southern russia, north africa, and northern central north america
dak;east indian tree bearing a profusion of intense vermilion velvet-textured blooms and yielding a yellow dye
dipteryx odorata;tall tropical south american tree having pulpy egg-shaped pods of fragrant black almond-shaped seeds used for flavoring
rabbiteye;shrub of southeastern united states grown commercially especially for canning industry
anhinga;fish-eating bird of warm inland waters having a long flexible neck and slender sharp-pointed bill
wood anemone;common anemone of eastern north america with solitary pink-tinged white flowers
amphicarpa bracteata;vine widely distributed in eastern north america producing racemes of purple to maroon flowers and abundant usually subterranean edible peanutlike one-seeded pods
chinese magnolia;large deciduous shrub or small tree having large open rosy to purplish flowers. native to asia. prized as an ornamental in eastern north america
swordtail;freshwater fish of central america having a long swordlike tail. popular aquarium fish
ascomycetous fungus;any fungus of the class ascomycetes (or subdivision ascomycota) in which the spores are formed inside an ascus
saint bernard s lily;southern european plant commonly cultivated for its spikes of small starry greenish-white flowers
bibos gaurus;wild ox of mountainous areas of eastern india
oxalis acetosella;eurasian plant with heart-shaped trifoliate leaves and white pink- or purple-veined flowers
hellebore;perennial herbs of the lily family having thick toxic rhizomes
para rubber tree;deciduous tree of the amazon and orinoco rivers having leathery leaves and fragrant yellow-white flowers. the rubber tree usually cultivated in plantations. chief source of para rubber
siberian millet;millet having orange to reddish grains in long bristly spikes
hound;any of several breeds of dog used for hunting typically having large drooping ears
fragrant shield fern;fern or northern eurasia and north america having fragrant fronds
semaphore plant;erect tropical asian shrub whose small lateral leaflets rotate on their axes and jerk up and down under the influence of sunshine
flickertail;of sagebrush and grassland areas of western united states and canada
lolium perenne;european perennial grass widely cultivated for pasture and hay and as a lawn grass
gesneriad;any of numerous tropical or subtropical small shrubs or treelets or epiphytic vines of the family gesneriaceae: african violet. cape primroses. gloxinia
butterbur;small eurasian herb having broad leaves and lilac-pink rayless flowers. found in moist areas
lappet caterpillar;larva of a lappet moth
coati mundi;omnivorous mammal of central and south america
english daisy;low-growing eurasian plant with yellow central disc flowers and pinkish-white outer ray flowers
streptobacillus;any of various rod-shaped gram-negative bacteria
wild meadow lily;common lily of the eastern united states having nodding yellow or reddish flowers spotted with brown
lygus bug;vector of viral plant diseases
american smooth dogfish;found along the atlantic coast of the americas
tresses;an orchid of the genus spiranthes having slender often twisted spikes of white flowers
carob bean;long pod containing small beans and sweetish edible pulp. used as animal feed and source of a chocolate substitute
heteranthera dubia;grassy-leaved north american aquatic plant with yellow star-shaped blossoms
california box elder;maple of the united states pacific coast. fruits are white when mature
rubus occidentalis;raspberry native to eastern north america having black thimble-shaped fruit
honeycreeper;small to medium-sized finches of the hawaiian islands
black bryony;common european twining vine with tuberous roots and cordate leaves and red berries
manduca sexta;moth whose larvae are tobacco hornworms
baltimore oriole;eastern subspecies of northern oriole
cush cush;tropical american yam with small yellow-skinned edible tubers
black cohosh;north american bugbane found from main and ontario to wisconsin and south to georgia
cleome serrulata;plant of western north america having trifoliate leaves and white or pink spider-shaped flowers. sometimes used as an ornamental
sorghum vulgare caudatum;a sudanese sorghum having exceptionally large soft white grains
apple aphid;bright green aphid. feeds on and causes curling of apple leaves
yellowwood;small handsome round-headed deciduous tree having showy white flowers in terminal clusters and heavy hardwood yielding yellow dye
coreid;a true bug
naked lady;amaryllis of south africa often cultivated for its fragrant white or rose flowers
allium scorodoprasum;european leek cultivated and used like leeks
dictyopterous insect;cockroaches and mantids
coffee;any of several small trees and shrubs native to the tropical old world yielding coffee beans
black hellebore;european evergreen plant with white or purplish roselike winter-blooming flowers
pollyfish;gaudy tropical fishes with parrotlike beaks formed by fusion of teeth
cervid;distinguished from bovidae by the male's having solid deciduous antlers
lemna minor;of temperate regions except eastern asia and australia
rocky mountain goat;sure-footed mammal of mountainous northwestern north america
gastrophryne olivacea;small secretive toad with smooth tough skin of central and western north america
red breasted sapsucker;western north american sapsucker
loasa;any of various perennial south american plants of the genus loasa having stinging hairs and showy white or yellow or reddish-orange flowers
white silk cotton tree;massive tropical tree with deep ridges on its massive trunk and bearing large pods of seeds covered with silky floss. source of the silky kapok fiber
nitric bacteria;soil bacteria that convert nitrites to nitrates
broad leaved centaury;a variety of centaury with broad leaves
clitocybe nuda;edible agaric that is pale lilac when young. has a smooth moist cap
christmas berry;ornamental evergreen treelike shrub of united states pacific coast having large white flowers and red berrylike fruits. often placed in genus photinia
castanea sativa;wild or cultivated throughout southern europe, northwestern africa and southwestern asia
sheepdog;any of various usually long-haird breeds of dog reared to herd and guard sheep
arenaria stricta;low perennial tufted plant of southeastern north america
garden symphilid;minute arthropod often infesting the underground parts of truck-garden and greenhouse crops
feather palm;palm having pinnate or featherlike leaves
prosopis juliiflora;mesquite of gulf coast and caribbean islands from mexico to venezuela
diapsida;used in former classifications to include all living reptiles except turtles. superseded by the two subclasses lepidosauria and archosauria
banksia integrifolia;shrubby tree with silky foliage and spikes of cylindrical yellow nectarous flowers
rosa odorata;any of several hybrid bush roses derived from a tea-scented chinese rose with pink or yellow flowers
wild plum tree;an uncultivated plum tree or shrub
sweet scabious;old world annual having fragrant purple to deep crimson flower heads. naturalized in united states
ricegrass;any grass of the genus oryzopsis
white stemmed filaree;low annual european herb naturalized in america. similar to alfilaria
marrow;any of various squash plants grown for their elongated fruit with smooth dark green skin and whitish flesh
feather star;free-swimming stalkless crinoid with ten feathery arms. found on muddy sea bottoms
gossypium hirsutum;native tropical american plant now cultivated in the united states yielding short-staple cotton
cotton rush;any sedge of the genus eriophorum. north temperate bog plants with tufted spikes
tectona grandis;tall east indian timber tree now planted in western africa and tropical america for its hard durable wood
polyoma;a virus the can initiate various kinds of tumors in mice
abyssinian cat;a small slender short-haired breed of african origin having brownish fur with a reddish undercoat
blechnum spicant;fern with erect fronds of europe and western north america. often cultivated for deer browse
scollop;edible marine bivalve having a fluted fan-shaped shell that swim by expelling water from the shell in a series of snapping motions
pisum sativum;plant producing peas usually eaten fresh rather than dried
conch;any of various edible tropical marine gastropods of the genus strombus having a brightly-colored spiral shell with large outer lip
greylag;common gray wild goose of europe. ancestor of many domestic breeds
doryopteris pedata;tropical american fern with coarsely lobed to palmatifid fronds
cat squirrel;common medium-large squirrel of eastern north america. now introduced into england
irish setter;an irish breed with a chestnut-brown or mahogany-red coat
balsam willow;small shrubby tree of eastern north america having leaves exuding an odor of balsam when crushed
vetch;any of various climbing plants of the genus vicia having pinnately compound leaves that terminate in tendrils and small variously colored flowers. includes valuable forage and soil-building plants
red alder;large tree of pacific coast of north america having hard red wood much used for furniture
caribe;small voraciously carnivorous freshwater fishes of south america that attack and destroy living animals
lygus lineolaris;widespread plant and fruit pest
sceloporus occidentalis;common western lizard. seen on logs or rocks
red mullet;brightly colored tropical fishes with chin barbels
asparagus;plant whose succulent young shoots are cooked and eaten as a vegetable
blueweed;a coarse prickly european weed with spikes of blue flowers. naturalized in united states
epiphytic plant;plant that derives moisture and nutrients from the air and rain. usually grows on another plant but not parasitic on it
picea engelmannii;tall spruce of rocky mountains and british columbia with blue-green needles and acutely conic crown. wood used for rough lumber and boxes
american black bear;brown to black north american bear. smaller and less ferocious than the brown bear
phaseolus limensis;bush or tall-growing bean plant having large flat edible seeds
black stork;old world stork that is glossy black above and white below
chestnut oak;an oak having leaves resembling those of chestnut trees
gray poplar;large rapidly growing poplar with faintly lobed dentate leaves gray on the lower surface. native to europe but introduced and naturalized elsewhere
even toed ungulate;placental mammal having hooves with an even number of functional toes on each foot
snowy heron;small new world egret
kangaroo hare;small australian wallaby that resembles a hare and has persistent teeth
ausralian honeysuckle;shrubby tree with silky foliage and spikes of cylindrical yellow nectarous flowers
triticum aestivum spelta;hardy wheat grown mostly in europe for livestock feed
bendy tree;pantropical tree of usually seacoasts sometimes cultivated as an ornamental for its rounded heart-shaped leaves and showy yellow and purple flowers. yields valuable pink to dark red close-grained wood and oil from its seeds
wax mallow;any of various plants of the genus malvaviscus having brilliant bell-shaped drooping flowers like incompletely opened hibiscus flowers
broodmare;a female horse used for breeding
dairy cow;cattle that are reared for their milk
acacia farnesiana;tropical american thorny shrub or small tree. fragrant yellow flowers used in making perfumery
rasher;commercially important fish of the north american pacific coast
mexican nut pine;small 2- or 3-needled pinon of mexico and southern texas
pteris multifida;asiatic fern introduced in america
rose colored pastor;glossy black bird with pink back and abdomen. chiefly asian
indian rhododendron;evergreen spreading shrub of india and southeastern asia having large purple flowers
cecropia moth;north american silkworm moth. larvae feed on the leaves of forest trees
howler monkey;monkey of tropical south american forests having a loud howling cry
cynara scolymus;mediterranean thistlelike plant widely cultivated for its large edible flower head
hatchling;any recently hatched animal (especially birds)
mullein;any of various plants of the genus verbascum having large usually woolly leaves and terminal spikes of yellow or white or purplish flowers
centaurea nigra;a weedy perennial with tough wiry stems and purple flowers. native to europe but widely naturalized
male orchis;eurasian orchid with showy pink or purple flowers in a loose spike
apis mellifera;social bee often domesticated for the honey it produces
trichechus manatus;sirenian mammal of tropical coastal waters of america. the flat tail is rounded
bluefin tuna;largest tuna. to 1500 pounds. of mostly temperate seas: feed in polar regions but breed in tropics
sedge warbler;small european warbler that breeds among reeds and wedges and winters in africa
black cock;male black grouse
grass tree;gaunt tasmanian evergreen shrubby tree with slender tapering leaves 3 to 5 feet long
angora cat;a long-haired breed similar to the persian cat
coffea liberica;small tree of west africa
english setter;an english breed having a plumed tail and a soft silky coat that is chiefly white
heron s bill;any of various plants of the genus erodium
illecebrum verticullatum;glabrous annual with slender taproot and clusters of white flowers. western europe especially western mediterranean and atlantic coastal areas
pastinaca sativa;a strong-scented plant cultivated for its edible root
potato tuberworm;larva of potato moth. mines in leaves and stems of e.g. potatoes and tobacco
lacertid lizard;old world terrestrial lizard
missouri goldenrod;similar to meadow goldenrod but usually smaller
boselaphus tragocamelus;large indian antelope. male is blue-grey with white markings. female is brownish with no horns
nero s crown;tropical shrub having glossy foliage and fragrant nocturnal flowers with crimped or wavy corollas. northern india to thailand
melia azederach;tree of northern india and china having purple blossoms and small inedible yellow fruits. naturalized in the southern united states as a shade tree
elettaria cardamomum;rhizomatous herb of india having aromatic seeds used as seasoning
squirrel corn;american plant with cream-colored flowers and tuberous roots resembling kernels of corn
civet cat;catlike mammal typically secreting musk used in perfumes
antheropeas wallacei;tiny gray woolly tufted annual with small golden-eyllow flower heads. southeastern california to northwestern arizona and southwestern utah. sometimes placed in genus eriophyllum
oregon holly grape;ornamental evergreen shrub of pacific coast of north america having dark green pinnate leaves and racemes of yellow flowers followed by blue-black berries
arctonyx collaris;se asian badger with a snout like a pig
oryzopsis hymenoides;valuable forage grass of dry upland areas and plains of western north america to northern mexico
herpes simplex;a herpes virus that causes oral herpes
western toad;of a great variety of habitats from southern alaska to baja california west of the rockies
albatross;large web-footed birds of the southern hemisphere having long narrow wings. noted for powerful gliding flight
acanthocereus tetragonus;cactus of the southwestern united states and northern mexico having edible juicy fruit
english iris;bulbous iris native to the pyrenees. widely cultivated for its large delicate flowers in various colors except yellow
archerfish;any of several small indo-australian freshwater fishes that catch insects by squirting water at them and knocking them into the water
ironwood tree;handsome east indian evergreen tree often planted as an ornamental for its fragrant white flowers that yield a perfume. source of very heavy hardwood used for railroad ties
american magpie;magpie of rocky mountain regions
yellow bunting;european bunting the male being bright yellow
dragonhead;american herb having sharply serrate lanceolate leaves and spikes of double-lipped blue to violet flowers
primrose;any of numerous short-stemmed plants of the genus primula having tufted basal leaves and showy flowers clustered in umbels or heads
salmon berry;white-flowered raspberry of western north america and northern mexico with thimble-shaped orange berries
roundworm;unsegmented worms with elongated rounded body pointed at both ends. mostly free-living but some are parasitic
elegant brodiaea;brodiaea having an umbel of violet or blue-violet flowers atop a leafless stalk. northern oregon to southern california
formica rufa;reddish-brown european ant typically living in anthills in woodlands
jird;north african gerbils
walking leaf;tropical insect having a flattened leaflike body. common in southern asia and the east indies
ground snake;small shy brightly-ringed terrestrial snake of arid or semiarid areas of western north america
gromwell;european perennial branching plant. occurs in hedgerows and at the edge of woodlands
leathery turtle;wide ranging marine turtle with flexible leathery carapace. largest living turtle
ring snake;harmless european snake with a bright yellow collar. common in england
falco columbarius;small falcon of europe and america having dark plumage with black-barred tail. used in falconry
chimaera;smooth-skinned deep-sea fish with a tapering body and long threadlike tail
sage;any of various plants of the genus salvia. cosmopolitan
grass pink;european pink cultivated for its very fragrant pink or rosy flowers
guacharo;nocturnal fruit-eating bird of south america that has fatty young yielding an oil that is used instead of butter
cassia;chinese tree with aromatic bark. yields a less desirable cinnamon than ceylon cinnamon
lantern fly;large brightly marked tropical insect with a process like a snout that was formerly thought to emit light
thylacine;rare doglike carnivorous marsupial of tasmania having stripes on its back. probably extinct
interior live oak;medium-small shrubby evergreen tree of western north america similar to the coast live oak but occurring chiefly in foothills of mountain ranges removed from the coast. an important part of the chaparral
dryland berry;low deciduous shrub of the eastern united states bearing dark blue sweet berries
scleroderma bovista;an earthball with a peridium that is firm dry and smooth when young but developing cracks when mature. pale orange-yellow when young and reddish brown at maturity
red kauri;new zealand tree with glossy leaves and scaly reddish-brown bark
multiflora;vigorously growing rose having clusters of numerous small flowers. used for hedges and as grafting stock
porpoise;any of several small gregarious cetacean mammals having a blunt snout and many teeth
cowbird;north american blackbird that follows cattle and lays eggs in other birds' nests
cavia porcellus;south american cavy. possibly ancestral to the domestic guinea pig
bolti;important food fish of the nile and other rivers of africa and asia minor
rupestral plant;plants growing among rocks
south american bullfrog;large toothed frog of south and central america resembling the bullfrog
grackle;glossy black asiatic starling often taught to mimic speech
nebraska fern;large branching biennial herb native to eurasia and africa and adventive in north america having large fernlike leaves and white flowers. usually found in damp habitats. all parts extremely poisonous
butterfly orchis;mediterranean orchid having usually purple flowers with a fan-shaped spotted or striped rose-red lip
american bugbane;bugbane of the eastern united states having erect racemes of white flowers
moonwort;of america and eurasia and australia
box elder;common shade tree of eastern and central united states
erythronium montanum;perennial herb having large white orange-marked flowers. found near snow line in northwestern united states
fagus sylvatica purpurea;variety of european beech with shining purple or copper-colored leaves
cavalry horse;horse trained for battle
filaree;european weed naturalized in southwestern united states and mexico having reddish decumbent stems with small fernlike leaves and small deep reddish-lavender flowers followed by slender pinlike fruits that stick straight up. often grown for forage
fragaria chiloensis;wild strawberry of western united states and south america. source of many varieties of cultivated strawberries
tipu tree;semi-evergreen south american tree with odd-pinnate leaves and golden yellow flowers cultivated as an ornamental
rudapithecus;fossil hominoids from north central hungary. late miocene
painted turtle;freshwater turtles having bright yellow and red markings. common in the eastern united states
colobus;arboreal monkey of western and central africa with long silky fur and reduced thumbs
pothos;any of various tropical lianas of the genus scindapsus
sailor s choice;similar to sea bream. small spiny-finned fish found in bays along the southeastern coast of the united states
elaeagnus commutata;deciduous unarmed north american shrub with silvery leaves and fruits
carpinus betulus;medium-sized old world tree with smooth gray bark and beech-like leaves that turn yellow-orange in autumn
oriental black mushroom;edible east asian mushroom having a golden or dark brown to blackish cap and an inedible stipe
humble plant;prostrate or semi-erect subshrub of tropical america, and australia. heavily armed with recurved thorns and having sensitive soft gray-green leaflets that fold and droop at night or when touched or cooled
guaiacum officinale;small evergreen tree of caribbean and southern central america to northern south america. a source of lignum vitae wood, hardest of commercial timbers, and a medicinal resin
capsicum frutescens baccatum;plant bearing very small and very hot oblong red fruits. includes wild forms native to tropical america. thought to be ancestral to the sweet pepper and many hot peppers
hard wheat;wheat with hard dark-colored kernels high in gluten and used for bread and pasta. grown especially in southern russia, north africa, and northern central north america
southern yellow pine;large 3-needled pine of southeastern united states having very long needles and gnarled twisted limbs. bark is red-brown deeply ridgedged. an important timber tree
canis aureus;old world nocturnal canine mammal closely related to the dog. smaller than a wolf. sometimes hunts in a pack but usually singly or as a member of a pair
sauvignon blanc;white wine grape grown in california
fairy slipper;rare north temperate bog orchid bearing a solitary white to pink flower marked with purple at the tip of an erect reddish stalk above 1 basal leaf
pigweed;common weedy european plant introduced into north america. often used as a potherb
sida hermaphrodita;tall handsome perennial herb of southeastern united states having maplelike leaves and white flowers
lynx rufus;small lynx of north america
chionanthus virginicus;small bushy tree of southeastern united states having profuse clusters of white flowers
indian mallow;tropical american weed having pale yellow or orange flowers naturalized in southern united states
american parsley fern;rock-inhabiting fern of northern north america growing in massive tufts and having parsleylike fronds
tamarindo;long-lived tropical evergreen tree with a spreading crown and feathery evergreen foliage and fragrant flowers yielding hard yellowish wood and long pods with edible chocolate-colored acidic pulp
worm snake;small reddish wormlike snake of eastern united states
quercus muehlenbergii;medium-sized deciduous tree of the eastern united states that yields a strong durable wood
curlycup gumweed;perennial gumweed of western and central north america
yellowfin mojarra;popular panfish from bermuda and gulf of mexico to brazil
small white aster;a variety of aster
prumnopitys taxifolia;new zealand conifer
sarcosomataceae;a type of ascomycetous fungus
chinewse elm;fast-growing shrubby asian tree naturalized in united states for shelter or ornament
american eagle;large north american eagle having a white head and dark wings and body
salamandra atra;ovoviviparous amphibian of the alps
spruce grouse;north american grouse that feeds on evergreen buds and needles
jupati;a tall brazilian feather palm with a terminal crown of very large leathery pinnatisect leaves rising from long strong stems used for structural purposes
data processor;a machine for performing calculations automatically
candelilla;wax-coated mexican shrub related to euphorbia antisyphilitica
button quail;small quail-like terrestrial bird of southern eurasia and north africa that lacks a hind toe. classified with wading birds but inhabits grassy plains
conoclinium coelestinum;rhizomatous plant of central and southeastern united states and west indies having large showy heads of clear blue flowers. sometimes placed in genus eupatorium
jaguar;a large spotted feline of tropical america similar to the leopard. in some classifications considered a member of the genus felis
seiurus aurocapillus;american warbler. builds a dome-shaped nest on the ground
clammyweed;strong-scented herb common in southern united states covered with intermixed gland and hairs
almond moth;moth whose larvae feed on and mat together with webbing various stored foods
fire pink;perennial herb of eastern north america, having red flowers with narrow notched petals
fig bird;greenish-yellow australian oriole feeding chiefly on figs and other fruits
alpine totara;low wide-spreading coniferous shrub of new zealand mountains
scented wattle;tropical american thorny shrub or small tree. fragrant yellow flowers used in making perfumery
polypodium virgianum;chiefly lithophytic or epiphytic fern of north america and east asia
sunray;herb having a basal cluster of gray-green leaves and leafless stalks each with a solitary broad yellow flower head. desert areas idaho to arizona
mastigophoran;usually nonphotosynthetic free-living protozoan with whiplike appendages. some pathogens of humans and other animals
mouse ear;small perennial herb having bright blue or white flowers
caper;any of numerous plants of the genus capparis
female horse;female equine animal
water gum;columnar swamp tree of southeastern to midwestern north america yielding pale soft easily worked wood
windowpane oyster;marine bivalve common in philippine coastal waters characterized by a large thin flat translucent shell
tinker s root;coarse weedy american perennial herb with large usually perfoliate leaves and purple or dull red flowers
turbine;machine in which the kinetic energy of a moving fluid is converted into mechanical energy by causing a bladed rotor to rotate
perch;any of numerous spiny-finned fishes of various families of the order perciformes
winter rose;european evergreen plant with white or purplish roselike winter-blooming flowers
deer s ears;any of various tall perennial herbs constituting the genus frasera. widely distributed in warm dry upland areas of the united states pacific states
pinniped mammal;aquatic carnivorous mammal having a streamlined body specialized for swimming with limbs modified as flippers
bird on the wing;common trailing perennial milkwort of eastern north america having leaves like wintergreen and usually rosy-purple flowers with winged sepals
mole rat;african rodent resembling a mole in habits and appearance
lesser yellowlegs;a variety of yellowlegs
quandong;australian tree having hard white timber and glossy green leaves with white flowers followed by one-seeded glossy blue fruit
prunus cerasus marasca;dalmatian bitter wild cherry tree bearing fruit whose juice is made into maraschino liqueur
apple geranium;geranium with round fragrant leaves and small white flowers
shield fern;any of various ferns of the genera dryopteris or polystichum or lastreopsis having somewhat shield-shaped coverings on the sori
samolus parviflorus;american water pimpernel
chickweed phlox;low mat-forming herb of rocky places in united states
romneya coulteri;tall branching subshrub of california and mexico often cultivated for its silvery-blue foliage and large fragrant white flowers
tansy leaf aster;wild aster with fernlike leaves and flower heads with very narrow bright purple rays. alberta to texas and mexico
picea rubens;medium-sized spruce of eastern north america. chief lumber spruce of the area. source of pulpwood
asian horseshoe crab;horseshoe crab of the coast of eastern asia
common burdock;ubiquitous in all but very acid soil. most of europe (except arctic caucasus) and north africa
ocean sunfish;among the largest bony fish. pelagic fish having an oval compressed body with high dorsal and anal fins and caudal fin reduced to a rudder-like lobe. worldwide in warm waters
archaeopteryx;extinct primitive toothed bird of the upper jurassic having a long feathered tail and hollow bones. usually considered the most primitive of all birds
southern spatterdock;of flowing waters of the southeastern united states. may form obstructive mats in streams
thresher;large pelagic shark of warm seas with a whiplike tail used to round up small fish on which to feed
clangula hyemalis;a common long-tailed sea duck of the northern parts of the united states
genetta genetta;agile old world viverrine having a spotted coat and long ringed tail
net melon;a muskmelon vine with fruit that has a thin reticulated rind and sweet green flesh
capra hircus;any of various breeds raised for milk or meat or wool
carpinus caroliniana;tree or large shrub with gray bark and blue-green leaves that turn red-orange in autumn
bakeapple;creeping raspberry of north temperate regions with yellow or orange berries
dallis grass;tall tufted perennial tropical american grass naturalized as pasture and forage grass in southern united states
montezuma;evergreen tree with large leathery leaves and large pink to orange flowers. considered a link plant between families bombacaceae and sterculiaceae
indian cherry;deciduous shrub of eastern and central united states having black berrylike fruit. golden-yellow in autumn
thorny amaranth;erect annual of tropical central asia and africa having a pair of divergent spines at most leaf nodes
redbird;the male is bright red with black wings and tail
rocket;a device containing its own propellant and driven by reaction propulsion
naucrates ductor;small pelagic fish often accompanying sharks or mantas
circus cyaneus;common harrier of north america and europe. nests in marshes and open land
citrus limon;a small evergreen tree that originated in asia but is widely cultivated for its fruit
bladder senna;yellow-flowered european shrub cultivated for its succession of yellow flowers and very inflated bladdery pods and as a source of wildlife food
ranunculus repens;perennial european herb with long creeping stolons
praying mantid;the common mantis
carpodacus purpureus;north american finch having a raspberry-red head and breast and rump
common pea;plant producing peas usually eaten fresh rather than dried
umbrella fern;large australiasian fern with fanlike repeatedly forked fronds. sometimes placed in genus gleichenia
tarantula;large hairy tropical spider that can inflict painful but not highly venomous bites
kit;young of any of various fur-bearing animals: 'a fox kit'
equus zebra zebra;narrow-striped nearly extinct zebra of southern africa
clostridia;spindle-shaped bacterial cell esp. one swollen at the center by an endospore
coydog;offspring of a coyote and a dog
scented penstemon;fragrant puffed-up white to reddish-pink flowers in long narrow clusters on erect stems. arizona to new mexico and utah
miller;metal secured to a carriage is fed against rotating cutters that shape it
zoril;north african muishond
fieldfare;medium-sized eurasian thrush seen chiefly in winter
hudsonia tomentosa;small heathlike plant covered with white down growing on beaches in northeastern north america
pharaoh s ant;small red ant of warm regions. a common household pest
eland;either of two large african antelopes of the genus taurotragus having short spirally twisted horns in both sexes
sea moss;any of various red algae having graceful rose to purple fronds (e.g. dulse or carrageen)
ramie;tall perennial herb of tropical asia with dark green leaves. cultivated for flax-like fiber from its woody stems
cattle egret;small white egret widely distributed in warm regions often found around grazing animals
polyphemus moth;very large yellowish-brown american silkworm moth with large eyespots on hind wings. larvae feed on fruit and shade trees
scotch asphodel;false asphodel having spikes of white or white-green flowers. of mountainous regions of europe
pen;female swan
gelding;castrated male horse
peperomia sandersii;grown as a houseplant for its silvery striped fleshy foliage. south america
pityrogramma calomelanos aureoflava;tropical american fern having fronds with light golden undersides
viburnum recognitum;closely related to southern arrow wood. the eastern united states maine to ohio and georgia
egyptian lupine;white-flowered eurasian herb widely cultivated for forage and erosion control
love tree;small tree of the eastern mediterranean having abundant purplish-red flowers growing on old wood directly from stems and appearing before the leaves: widely cultivated in mild regions. wood valuable for veneers
lyme grass;a grass of the genus elymus
bahama grass;trailing grass native to europe now cosmopolitan in warm regions. used for lawns and pastures especially in southern united states and india
mitchella repens;creeping woody plant of eastern north america with shiny evergreen leaves and scarlet berries
shrimp;small slender-bodied chiefly marine decapod crustaceans with a long tail and single pair of pincers. many species are edible
sea squill;having dense spikes of small white flowers and yielding a bulb with medicinal properties
quetzal bird;large trogon of central and south america having golden-green and scarlet plumage
capparis mitchellii;small australian tree bearing edible dark purple fruit
wild wilkworm;larva of a saturniid moth. spins a large amount of strong silk in constructing its cocoon
moss animal;sessile aquatic animal forming mosslike colonies of small polyps each having a curved or circular ridge bearing tentacles. attach to stones or seaweed and reproduce by budding
jersey;breed from the island of jersey
dracunculus vulgaris;european arum resembling the cuckoopint
evening primrose;any of several plants of the family onagraceae
avene sterilis;mediterranean oat held to be progenitor of modern cultivated oat
thymus vulgaris;common aromatic garden perennial native to the western mediterranean. used in seasonings and formerly as medicine
souslik;rather large central eurasian ground squirrel
prosimian;primitive primates having large ears and eyes and characterized by nocturnal habits
carissa;a shrub of the genus carissa having fragrant white flowers and plumlike red to purple-black fruits
vitis vinifera;common european grape cultivated in many varieties. chief source of old world wine and table grapes
physa;any member of the genus physa
andromeda glaucophylla;wiry evergreen shrub having pendent clusters of white or pink flowers. of wet acidic areas in arctic and canada to northeastern united states
mediterranean hackberry;bright green deciduous shade tree of southern europe
podocarpus spicata;new zealand conifer
chlamyphorus truncatus;very small argentine armadillo with pale silky hair and pink plates on head and neck
gavialis gangeticus;large fish-eating indian crocodilian with a long slender snout
spitz;any of various stocky heavy-coated breeds of dogs native to northern regions having pointed muzzles and erect ears with a curled furry tail
gun dog;a dog trained to work with sportsmen when they hunt with guns
rudd;european freshwater fish resembling the roach
bonito shark;common blue-gray shark of southwest pacific. sport and food fish
orange;any citrus tree bearing oranges
indian beech;evergreen asiatic tree having glossy pinnate leaves and racemose creamy-white scented flowers. used as a shade tree
azederach;tree of northern india and china having purple blossoms and small inedible yellow fruits. naturalized in the southern united states as a shade tree
gomuti palm;malaysian feather palm with base densely clothed with fibers. yields a sweet sap used in wine and trunk pith yields sago
canyon live oak;medium-sized evergreen of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico with oblong leathery often spiny-edged leaves
bear cub;a young bear
richweed;erect perennial strong-scented with serrate pointed leaves and a loose panicle of yellowish flowers. the eastern united states
false sarsaparilla;common perennial herb having aromatic roots used as a substitute for sarsaparilla. central and eastern north america
silver sagebrush;low much-branched perennial of western united states having silvery leaves. an important browse and shelter plant
helleborine;any of several orchids of the genus cephalanthera
malcolm stock;any of various ornamental flowering plants of the genus malcolmia
fouquieria columnaris;candlewood of mexico and southwestern california having tall columnar stems and bearing honey-scented creamy yellow flowers
mahimahi;large slender food and game fish widely distributed in warm seas (especially around hawaii)
triton;tropical marine gastropods having beautifully colored spiral shells
naked lady;bulbous autumn-flowering herb with white, purple or lavender-and-white flowers. native to western and central europe
skipjack;oceanic schooling tuna of considerable value in pacific but less in atlantic. reaches 75 pounds. very similar to if not the same as oceanic bonito
alecost;tansy-scented eurasian perennial herb with buttonlike yellow flowers. used as potherb or salad green and sometimes for potpourri or tea or flavoring. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
oscine bird;passerine bird having specialized vocal apparatus
honey bear;arboreal fruit-eating mammal of tropical america with a long prehensile tail
manakin;any of numerous small bright-colored birds of central and south america having short bills and elaborate courtship behavior
sporophyte;the spore-producing individual or phase in the life cycle of a plant having alternation of generations
planococcus citri;feeds on a wide variety of cultivated plants but esp. destructive to citrus
caprimulgid;mainly crepuscular or nocturnal nonpasserine birds with mottled grayish-brown plumage and large eyes. feed on insects
gamboge tree;low spreading tree of indonesia yielding an orange to brown gum resin (gamboge) used as a pigment when powdered
babyrousa babyrussa;indonesian wild pig with enormous curved canine teeth
okapi;similar to the giraffe but smaller with much shorter neck and stripe on the legs
onion plant;bulbous plant having hollow leaves cultivated worldwide for its rounded edible bulb
siberian crab;asian wild crab apple cultivated in many varieties for it small acid usually red fruit used for preserving
chinese cabbage;plant with an elongated celery-like head of broad stalked leaves used as a vegetable in east asia
root climber;a plant that climbs by its adventitious roots e.g. ivy
cucumber tree;american deciduous magnolia having large leaves and fruit like a small cucumber
scophthalmus rhombus;european food fish
isopod;any of various small terrestrial or aquatic crustaceans with seven pairs of legs adapted for crawling
black fritillary;herb of southwestern united states having dark purple bell-shaped flowers mottled with green
steam shovel;a power shovel that is driven by steam
scaup duck;diving ducks of north america having a bluish-gray bill
hibiscus moscheutos;showy shrub of salt marshes of the eastern united states having large rose-colored flowers
solan goose;very large white gannet with black wing tips
phyllodoce caerulea;small shrub with tiny evergreen leaves and pink or purple flowers. alpine summits and high ground in asia and europe and united states
maltese cat;a short-haired bluish-gray cat breed
abronia fragrans;taller than abronia_elliptica and having night-blooming flowers
solanum nigrum;eurasian herb naturalized in america having white flowers and poisonous hairy foliage and bearing black berries that are sometimes poisonous but sometimes edible
symphoricarpos alba;deciduous shrub of western north america having spikes of pink flowers followed by round white berries
common foxglove;tall leafy european biennial or perennial having spectacular clusters of large tubular pink-purple flowers. leaves yield drug digitalis and are poisonous to livestock
jerusalem cherry;small south american shrub cultivated as a houseplant for its abundant ornamental but poisonous red or yellow cherry-sized fruit
leafy spurge;tall european perennial naturalized and troublesome as a weed in eastern north america
panama redwood tree;large erect shrub of columbia having large odd-pinnate leaves with large leaflets and axillary racemes of fragrant yellow flowers
trichomanes reniforme;large fern of new zealand having kidney-shaped fronds
lespedeza sericea;perennial widely planted as for forage and as hay crop especially on poor land
pink fivecorner;heathlike shrub of southwestern australia grown for its sharply scented foliage and pink flowers followed by pentagonal fruit
synaptomys cooperi;of low bogs and meadows of northeastern and central united states and southern canada
petasites hybridus;small eurasian herb having broad leaves and lilac-pink rayless flowers. found in moist areas
goral;small goat antelope with small conical horns. of south asian mountains
mephitis mephitis;most common and widespread north american skunk
salvia sclarea;aromatic herb of southern europe. cultivated in england as a potherb and widely as an ornamental
digitalis purpurea;tall leafy european biennial or perennial having spectacular clusters of large tubular pink-purple flowers. leaves yield drug digitalis and are poisonous to livestock
macaca sylvana;tailless macaque of rocky cliffs and forests of northwestern africa and gibraltar
beet;biennial eurasian plant usually having a swollen edible root. widely cultivated as a food crop
backhoe;an excavator whose shovel bucket is attached to a hinged boom and is drawn backward to move earth
scaphiopus bombifrons;of plains and hills and river bottoms in areas of low rainfall east of the rocky mountains
mitella diphylla;miterwort of northeastern north america usually with two opposite leaves on erect flowering stems that terminate in erect racemes of white flowers
podocarpus coriaceus;west indian evergreen with medium to long leaves
thrinax microcarpa;small stocky fan palm of southern florida and cuba
polyborus plancus;south american caracara
elephant yam;putrid-smelling aroid of southeastern asia (especially the philippines) grown for its edible tuber
western larch;tall larch of western north america have pale green sharply pointed leaves and oblong cones. an important timber tree
allegheny mountain spurge;low semi-evergreen perennial herb having small spikes of white or pinkish flowers. native to southern united states but grown elsewhere
anagyris foetida;shrub with trifoliate leaves and yellow flowers followed by backward curving seed pods. leaves foetid when crushed
liomys irroratus;large pocket mouse of mexico
lonicera morrowii;a gray deciduous honeysuckle shrub paired white flowers turning yellow. japan
ragee;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
rose;any of many plants of the genus rosa
orthopterous insect;any of various insects having leathery forewings and membranous hind wings and chewing mouthparts
milk adder;nonvenomous tan and brown king snake with an arrow-shaped occipital spot. southeastern ones have red stripes like coral snakes
hydrangea macrophylla hortensis;deciduous shrub bearing round-headed flower clusters opening green and aging to pink or blue
myrtle;widely cultivated as a groundcover for its dark green shiny leaves and usually blue-violet flowers
erysimum asperum;biennial or short-lived perennial prairie rocket having orange-yellow flowers. western north america to minnesota and kansas. sometimes placed in genus cheiranthus
agouti;agile long-legged rabbit-sized rodent of central and south america and west indies. valued as food
charolais;large white or cream-colored breed from france
urnula craterium;an urn-shaped discomycete with a nearly black interior
balsam woolly aphid;a variety of adelgid
humpback;large whalebone whale with long flippers noted for arching or humping its back as it dives
pleurocarp;a moss having the archegonium or antheridium on a short side branch rather than the main stalk
splitworm;grayish-brown moth whose larva is the potato tuberworm
chickweed;any of various plants of the genus stellaria
ordeal tree;evergreen shrub or tree of south africa
peripatus;any of numerous velvety-skinned wormlike carnivorous animals common in tropical forests having characteristics of both arthropods and annelid worms
tamiasciurus hudsonicus;of northern united states and canada
kodiak bear;brown bear of coastal alaska and british columbia
lathyrus sativus;european annual grown for forage. seeds used for food in india and for stock elsewhere
string bean;common bean plant cultivated for its slender green edible pods
tall white violet;tall north american perennial with heart-shaped leaves and purple-streaked white flowers
herb of grace;european strong-scented perennial herb with gray-green bitter-tasting leaves. an irritant similar to poison ivy
sugar pea;variety of pea plant producing peas having thin flat edible pods
globe thistle;any of various plants of the genus echinops having prickly leaves and dense globose heads of bluish flowers
triticum dicoccum dicoccoides;found wild in palestine. held to be prototype of cultivated wheat
new zealand white pine;new zealand evergreen valued for its light easily worked wood
helicteres isora;east indian shrub often cultivated for its hairy leaves and orange-red flowers
bitis gabonica;large heavy-bodied brilliantly marked and extremely venomous west african viper
kentan;east asian perennial having large reddish-orange black-spotted flowers with reflexed petals
bullace;small wild or half-domesticated eurasian plum bearing small ovoid fruit in clusters
rhinonicteris aurantius;a common bat of northwestern australia having orange or yellow fur
louse;any of several small insects esp. aphids that feed by sucking the juices from plants
purple saxifrage;plants forming dense cushions with bright reddish-lavender flowers. rocky areas of europe and asia and western north america
pseudobombax ellipticum;tree of mexico to guatemala having densely hairy flowers with long narrow petals clustered at ends of branches before leaves appear
flax rust;fungus causing flax rust
brown thrush;common large songbird of eastern united states having reddish-brown plumage
lonas annua;shrub of southwestern mediterranean region having yellow daisylike flowers
cocker spaniel;a small breed with a wavy silky hair originally developed in england
arabian;a spirited graceful and intelligent riding horse native to arabia
chilopsis linearis;evergreen shrubby tree resembling a willow of dry regions of southwestern north america having showy purplish flowers and long seed pods
printing press;a machine used for printing
rice grass;any grass of the genus oryzopsis
prince s plume;perennial of southwestern united states having leathery blue-green pinnatifid leaves and thick plumelike spikes of yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus cleome
american creeper;common american brown creeper with down-curved bill
comstock mealybug;asiatic insect introduced accidentally into united states. pest on citrus and apple trees
pepper root;north american herb with pungent scaly or toothed roots
sisymbrium barbarea;noxious cress with yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus sisymbrium
hornet;large stinging paper wasp
lasthenia chrysostoma;small slender woolly annual with very narrow opposite leaves and branches bearing solitary golden-yellow flower heads. southwestern oregon to baja california and arizona. often cultivated
blind gentian;gentian of eastern north america having tubular blue or white flowers that open little if at all
plains pocket mouse;small rodent of open areas of united states plains states
hagfish;eellike cyclostome having a tongue with horny teeth in a round mouth surrounded by eight tentacles. feeds on dead or trapped fishes by boring into their bodies
plicatoperipatus jamaicensis;a kind of onychophoran
origanum;any of various fragrant aromatic herbs of the genus origanum used as seasonings
blackburn;black-and-white north american wood warbler having an orange-and-black head and throat
sandfly;blood-sucking females can transmit sandfly fever
spotted salamander;glossy black north american salamander with yellow spots
throatwort;european bellflower with blue-purple to lilac flowers formerly used to treat sore throat
garden orache;asiatic plant resembling spinach often used as a potherb. naturalized in europe and north america
poppy mallow;a plant of the genus callirhoe having palmately cleft leaves and white to red or purple flowers borne throughout the summer
scarlet lychnis;eurasian garden perennial having scarlet flowers in dense terminal heads
rivina humilis;bushy houseplant having white to pale pink flowers followed by racemes of scarlet berries. tropical americas
butterfly orchid;mediterranean orchid having usually purple flowers with a fan-shaped spotted or striped rose-red lip
trap door spider;american spider that constructs a silk-lined nest with a hinged lid
orangutang;large long-armed ape of borneo and sumatra having arboreal habits
yautia;tropical american aroid having edible tubers that are cooked and eaten like yams or potatoes
balaenoptera musculus;largest mammal ever known. bluish-gray migratory whalebone whale mostly of southern hemisphere
lagomorph;relative large gnawing animals. distinguished from rodents by having two pairs of upper incisors specialized for gnawing
fucus vesiculosus;common black rockweed used in preparing kelp and as manure
she goat;female goat
tiger salamander;widely distributed brown or black north american salamander with vertical yellowish blotches
cycloloma atriplicifolium;bushy annual weed of central north america having greenish flowers and winged seeds
atlantic white cedar;slow-growing medium-sized cedar of east coast of the united states. resembles american arborvitae
galium aparine;annual having the stem beset with curved prickles. north america and europe and asia
markhor;large himalayan goat with large spiraled horns
anolis carolinensis;small arboreal tropical american insectivorous lizards with the ability to change skin color
ptyas mucosus;enter buildings in pursuit of prey
arborescent plant;having the shape or characteristics of a tree
prunus maritima;seacoast shrub of northeastern north america having showy white blossoms and edible purple fruit
guinea worm;parasitic roundworm of india and africa that lives beneath the skin of man and other vertebrates
american white pine;tall-growing pine of eastern north america. bark is brown with longitudinal fissures when mature. valued as a timber tree
sphyrna zygaena;fished for the hides and vitamin-rich liver
coreopsis;any of numerous plants of the genus coreopsis having a profusion of showy usually yellow daisylike flowers over long periods. north and south america
ostracod;tiny marine and freshwater crustaceans with a shrimp-like body enclosed in a bivalve shell
dagger fern;north american evergreen fern having pinnate leaves and dense clusters of lance-shaped fronds
betula leutea;tree of eastern north america with thin lustrous yellow or gray bark
norwegian elkhound;breed of compact medium-sized dog with a heavy gray coat developed in norway for hunting elk
centaury;any of various plants of the genus centaurium
american dwarf birch;small shrub of colder parts of north america and greenland
phototrophic bacteria;green and purple bacteria. energy for growth is derived from sunlight. carbon is derived from carbon dioxide or organic carbon
lime tree;any of various deciduous trees of the genus tilia heart-shaped leaves and drooping cymose clusters of yellowish often fragrant flowers. several yield valuable timber
willow;any of numerous deciduous trees and shrubs of the genus salix
armoracia rusticana;coarse eurasian plant cultivated for its thick white pungent root
salvia spathacea;california erect and sparsely branched perennial
eucalyptus fraxinoides;large tree with dark compact bark on lower trunk but smooth and white above. yields lumber similar to that of european or american ashes
anoa depressicornis;small buffalo of the celebes having small straight horns
silver lace vine;twining perennial vine having racemes of fragrant greenish flowers. western china to russia
leopard lily;lily of western united states having orange-red to crimson maroon-spotted flowers
pacific walrus;of the bering sea and north pacific
cryptogramma acrostichoides;rock-inhabiting fern of northern north america growing in massive tufts and having parsleylike fronds
dicotyledon;flowering plant with two cotyledons
lanius ludovicianus excubitorides;of western north america. gray with white underparts
larus argentatus;large gull of the northern hemisphere
white birch;european birch with dull white to pale brown bark and somewhat drooping hairy branches
truffle;any of various highly prized edible subterranean fungi of the genus tuber. grow naturally in southwestern europe
golden algae;algae having the pigments chlorophyll and carotene and xanthophyll
ribbon fern;epiphytic fern with straplike usually twisted fronds of tropical asia and polynesia and america
firefly;nocturnal beetle common in warm regions having luminescent abdominal organs
hybrid petunia;hybrids of petunia axillaris and petunia integrifolia: a complex group of petunias having single or double flowers in colors from white to purple
euphorbia helioscopia;not unattractive european weed whose flowers turn toward the sun
ring rot bacteria;causes brown rot in tomatoes and potatoes and tobacco etc
davidson s penstemon;mat-forming plant with blue-lavender flowers clustered on short erect stems. british columbia to northern california
cherry laurel;small flowering evergreen tree of southern united states
woodland caribou;any of several large caribou living in coniferous forests of southern canada. in some classifications included in the species rangifer tarandus
northern porgy;found in atlantic coastal waters of north america from south carolina to maine. esteemed as a panfish
cyperus rotundus;a widely distributed perennial sedge having small edible nutlike tubers
tread softly;a stinging herb of tropical america
california black oak;large deciduous tree of the pacific coast having deeply parted bristle-tipped leaves
sorb apple;medium-sized european tree resembling the rowan but bearing edible fruit
desmid;freshwater green algae
ficus rubiginosa;australian tree resembling the banyan often planted for ornament. introduced into south africa for brushwood
clubroot fungus;slime-mold-like fungus causing swellings or distortions of the roots of cabbages and related plants
pierid;any of numerous pale-colored butterflies having three pairs of well-developed legs
kalmia polifolia;laurel of bogs of northwestern united states having small purple flowers and pale leaves that are glaucous beneath
wild mandrake;north american herb with poisonous root stock and edible though insipid fruit
pink bollworm;larvae of a gelechiid moth introduced from asia. feeds on the seeds of cotton bolls
black necked grebe;small grebe with yellow ear tufts and a black neck. found in eurasia and southern africa as well as western united states
salmo trutta;speckled trout of european rivers. introduced in north america
kudzu vine;fast-growing east asian vine having hairy trifoliate leaves and racemes of purple flowers followed by long many-seed hairy pods and tuberous starchy roots. grown for fodder and forage and root starch. widespread in the southern united states
cadra cautella;moth whose larvae feed on and mat together with webbing various stored foods
rottweiler;german breed of large vigorous short-haired cattle dogs
japonica;deciduous thorny shrub native to japan having red blossoms
sea moss;sessile aquatic animal forming mosslike colonies of small polyps each having a curved or circular ridge bearing tentacles. attach to stones or seaweed and reproduce by budding
jack;male donkey
syrrhaptes paradoxus;eurasiatic sandgrouse with a black patch on the belly
corylus avellana;small nut-bearing tree much grown in europe
great snipe;old world snipe larger and darker than the whole snipe
sandbar shark;widely distributed shallow-water shark with fins seemingly dipped in ink
myotis velifer;small bat of southwest united states that lives in caves etc.
eelgrass;submerged marine plant with very long narrow leaves found in abundance along north atlantic coasts
teff;an african grass economically important as a cereal grass (yielding white flower of good quality) as well as for forage and hay
carthorse;horse kept for pulling carts
iridaceous plant;any bulbous plant of the family iridaceae
whelp;young of any of various canines such as a dog or wolf
kidney fern;large fern of new zealand having kidney-shaped fronds
calendula officinalis;the common european annual marigold
thrips;any of various small to minute sucking insects with narrow feathery wings if any. they feed on plant sap and many are destructive
macrotus californicus;large-eared grayish bat of southern california and northwestern mexico
fishfly;similar to but smaller than the dobsonfly
wild celery;herb of europe and temperate asia
anemone riparia;thimbleweed of northern north america
gypsyweed;common hairy european perennial with pale blue or lilac flowers in axillary racemes
melosa;south american herb with sticky glandular foliage. source of madia oil
pseudechis porphyriacus;large semiaquatic snake of australia. black above with red belly
cotinus coggygria;old world shrub having large plumes of yellowish feathery flowers resembling puffs of smoke
black eyed pea;sprawling old world annual cultivated especially in southern united states for food and forage and green manure
gymnocarpium dryopteris;bright blue-green fern widely distributed especially in damp acid woodlands of temperate northern hemisphere
silver lace;shrubby perennial of the canary islands having white flowers and leaves and hairy stems covered with dust-like down. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
creeping wintergreen;creeping shrub of eastern north america having white bell-shaped flowers followed by spicy red berrylike fruit and shiny aromatic leaves that yield wintergreen oil
penstemon parryi;erect stems with pinkish-lavender flowers in long interrupted clusters. arizona
golden clematis;chinese clematis with serrate leaves and large yellow flowers
chinese chestnut;a small tree with small sweet nuts. wild or naturalized in korea and china
jupaty;a tall brazilian feather palm with a terminal crown of very large leathery pinnatisect leaves rising from long strong stems used for structural purposes
banded rattlesnake;widely distributed in rugged ground of eastern united states
flowers of an hour;annual weedy herb with ephemeral yellow purple-eyed flowers. old world tropics. naturalized as a weed in north america
fingerroot;tall leafy european biennial or perennial having spectacular clusters of large tubular pink-purple flowers. leaves yield drug digitalis and are poisonous to livestock
pondweed;any of several submerged or floating freshwater perennial aquatic weeds belonging to the family potamogetonaceae
almond;small bushy deciduous tree native to asia and north africa having pretty pink blossoms and highly prized edible nuts enclosed in a hard green hull. cultivated in southern australia and california
calypso bulbosa;rare north temperate bog orchid bearing a solitary white to pink flower marked with purple at the tip of an erect reddish stalk above 1 basal leaf
coreopsis maritima;stout herb with flowers one to a stalk. ornamental developed from a mexican wildflower
camphorweed;aromatic plant of western united states
chiggerflower;erect perennial of eastern and southern united states having showy orange flowers
winter squash;any of various plants of the species cucurbita maxima and cucurbita moschata producing hard-rinded squashes that mature in the fall
goldthread;low-growing perennial of north america woodlands having trifoliate leaves and yellow rootstock and white flowers
corn snake;large harmless snake of southeastern united states. often on farms
rocambole;european leek cultivated and used like leeks
few flowered leek;leek producing bulbils instead of flowers. russia and iran
turtlehead;showy perennial of marshlands of eastern and central north america having waxy lanceolate leaves and flower with lower part creamy white and upper parts pale pink to deep purple
ambystomid;small to moderate-sized terrestrial or semiaquatic new world salamander
himantoglossum hircinum;an orchid of the genus himantoglossum
campanula medium;european biennial widely cultivated for its blue or violet or white flowers
hydrastis canadensis;perennial herb of northeastern united states having a thick knotted yellow rootstock and large rounded leaves
mercurialis perennis;european perennial weedy plant with greenish flowers
leek;plant having a large slender white bulb and flat overlapping dark green leaves. used in cooking. believed derived from the wild allium ampeloprasum
dog fennel;widespread rank-smelling weed having white-rayed flower heads with yellow discs
goose barnacle;stalked barnacle that attaches to ship bottoms or floating timbers
cricket bat willow;eurasian willow tree having grayish leaves and ascending branches
staffordshire bullterrier;english breed of strong stocky dog having a broad skull and smooth coat
barn millet;a coarse annual panic grass. a cosmopolitan weed. occasionally used for hay or grazing
orthopteron;any of various insects having leathery forewings and membranous hind wings and chewing mouthparts
silver thatch;small palm of southern florida and west indies closely resembling the silvertop palmetto
arundinaria tecta;small cane of watery or moist areas in southern united states
gaylussacia brachycera;creeping evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having small shiny boxlike leaves and flavorless berries
prince s feather;annual with broadly ovate leaves and slender drooping spikes of crimson flowers. southeastern asia and australia. naturalized in north america
yellow trumpet;pitcher plant of southeastern united states having erect wide-mouth yellow trumpet-shaped pitchers with erect lids
warble fly;hairy bee-like fly whose larvae produce lumpy abscesses (warbles) under the skin of cattle
centropristis philadelphica;a kind of sea bass
external combustion engine;an engine in which ignition occurs outside the chamber (cylinder or turbine) in which heat is converted to mechanical energy
jonah crab;large red deep-water crab of the eastern coast of north america
silvery spleenwort;fern with elongate silvery outgrowths enclosing the developing spores
cress;any of various plants of the family cruciferae having edible pungent-tasting leaves
daisy;any of numerous composite plants having flower heads with well-developed ray flowers usually arranged in a single whorl
black headed snake;small secretive ground-dwelling snake. found from central united states to argentina
rhizopogon idahoensis;a large whitish rhizopogon that becomes grayish brown in maturity
campanula carpatica;european perennial bellflower that grows in clumps with spreading stems and blue or white flowers
brittle bladder fern;delicate fern widely distributed in north america and european having thin pinnatifid fronds with brittle stems
cascarilla;west indian shrub with aromatic bark
emberiza schoeniclus;european bunting inhabiting marshy areas
boletus chrysenteron;a fungus convex cap and a dingy yellow under surface and a dry stalk
wild boar;old world wild swine having a narrow body and prominent tusks from which most domestic swine come. introduced in united states
equetus lanceolatus;black-and-white drumfish with an erect elongated dorsal fin
palo verde;densely branched spiny tree of southwestern united states having showy yellow flowers and blue-green bark. sometimes placed in genus cercidium
sheep s sorrel;small plant having pleasantly acid-tasting arrow-shaped leaves. common in dry places
petrel;relatively small long-winged tube-nosed bird that flies far from land
hagberry tree;small european cherry tree closely resembling the american chokecherry
rabbit s foot fern;tropical american fern with brown scaly rhizomes cultivated for its large deeply lobed deep bluish-green fronds. sometimes placed in genus polypodium
old world warbler;small active brownish or grayish old world birds
cistus ladanum;shrub having white flowers and viscid stems and leaves yielding a fragrant oleoresin used in perfumes especially as a fixative
telex;a printing telegraph that operates like a typewriter
indian paintbrush;erect perennial of eastern and southern united states having showy orange flowers
chrysanthemum morifolium;of china
garambulla cactus;arborescent cactus of western mexico bearing a small oblong edible berrylike fruit
cottonwood;any of several north american trees of the genus populus having a tuft of cottony hairs on the seed
fir;any of various evergreen trees of the genus abies. chiefly of upland areas
rock wren;wren inhabiting badlands and mesa country of western united states and mexico
rein orchis;any of several american wildflowers with a kidney-shaped lip
coco plum;small tropical american tree bearing edible plumlike fruit
streptococcus;spherical gram-positive bacteria occurring in pairs or chains. cause e.g. scarlet fever and tonsillitis
long eared bat;any of various old or new world bats having very long ears
budgereegah;small australian parakeet usually light green with black and yellow markings in the wild but bred in many colors
white fir;medium to tall fir of central to western united states having a narrow erect crown and soft wood
crab grass;grasses with creeping stems that root freely. a pest in lawns
ambystoma talpoideum;brownish-black burrowing salamander of southeastern united states
platan;any of several trees of the genus platanus having thin pale bark that scales off in small plates and lobed leaves and ball-shaped heads of fruits
brachychiton australis;north australian tree having white flowers and broad leaves
stag s horn coral;large branching coral resembling antlers
sydney silky;australian breed of toy dogs having a silky blue coat
pilotfish;small pelagic fish often accompanying sharks or mantas
six gilled shark;large primitive shark widely distributed in warm seas
potamogeton crispus;european herb naturalized in the eastern united states and california
bitterwood tree;any of various trees or shrubs of the family simaroubaceae having wood and bark with a bitter taste
vireo;any of various small insectivorous american birds chiefly olive-gray in color
pipturus albidus;hawaiian tree of genus pipturus having a bark (tapa) from which tapa cloth is made
flame pea;any of several small shrubs or twining vines having entire or lobed leaves and racemes of yellow to orange-red flowers. australia
worm;any of numerous relatively small elongated soft-bodied animals especially of the phyla annelida and chaetognatha and nematoda and nemertea and platyhelminthes. also many insect larvae
praying mantis;the common mantis
baya;common indian weaverbird
lampropeltis getulus;widespread in united states except northern regions. black or brown with yellow bands
dachsie;small long-bodied short-legged german breed of dog having a short sleek coat and long drooping ears. suited for following game into burrows
clark s nutcracker;nutcracker of the western united states
moonshell;marine gastropods having smooth rounded short-spired shells
congener;an animal or plant that bears a relationship to another (as related by common descent or by membership in the same genus)
welwitschia;curious plant of arid regions of southwestern africa having a yard-high and yard-wide turniplike trunk with a deep taproot and two large persistent woody straplike leaves growing from the base. living relic of a flora long disappeared. some may be 700-5000 years old
water snake;any of various mostly harmless snakes that live in or near water
warthog;african wild swine with warty protuberances on the face and large protruding tusks
dutch iris;bulbous spanish iris having blue flowers
wild mango;african tree with edible yellow mangolike fruit valued for its oil-rich seed and hardy green termite-resistant wood
blind gentian;similar to gentiana andrewsii but with larger flowers
pen tailed tree shrew;brown tree shrew having a naked tail bilaterally fringed with long stiff hairs on the distal third. of malaysia
raptorial bird;any of numerous carnivorous birds that hunt and kill other animals
vegetable sheep;cushion-forming new zealand herb having leaves densely covered with tawny hairs
flagfish;flagfish with a dark-blue back and whitish sides with red stripes. found in swamps and streams of florida
scleroderma flavidium;an earthball with a smooth upper surface that is at first buried in sand. the top of the fruiting body opens up to form raylike segments
betula pendula;european birch with silvery white peeling bark and markedly drooping branches
cocklebur;any coarse weed of the genus xanthium having spiny burrs
lioness;a female lion
baccharis viminea;california shrub with slender leafy shoots that are important browse for mule deer
red grouse;reddish-brown grouse of upland moors of great britain
rosebay willowherb;tall north american perennial with creeping rootstocks and narrow leaves and spikes of pinkish-purple flowers occurring in great abundance in burned-over areas or recent clearings. an important honey plant
plagianthus betulinus;deciduous new zealand tree whose inner bark yields a strong flax-like fiber called new zealand cotton
myrmecobius fasciatus;small australian marsupial having long snout and strong claws for feeding on termites. nearly extinct
friesian;a breed of dairy cattle from northern holland
buckbean;perennial plant of europe and america having racemes of white or purplish flowers and intensely bitter trifoliate leaves. often rooting at water margin and spreading across the surface
embryo;a minute rudimentary plant contained within a seed or an archegonium
thyrsopteris;a terrestrial tree fern of south america
cassia auriculata;evergreen indian shrub with vivid yellow flowers whose bark is used in tanning. sometimes placed in genus cassia
bairdiella chrysoura;small silvery drumfish often mistaken for white perch. found along coasts of united states from new york to mexico
brasenia schreberi;aquatic plant with floating oval leaves and purple flowers. in lakes and slow-moving streams. suitable for aquariums
mentha longifolia;a coarse old world wild water mint having long leaves and spikelike clusters of flowers. naturalized in the eastern united states
rhode island bent;common grass with slender stems and narrow leaves
bugleweed;any of various low-growing annual or perennial evergreen herbs native to eurasia. used for ground cover
aplysia punctata;naked marine gastropod having a soft body with reduced internal shell and two pairs of ear-like tentacles
dead nettle;coarse bristly eurasian plant with white or reddish flowers and foliage resembling that of a nettle. common as a weed in united states
glycyrrhiza lepidota;north american plant similar to true licorice and having a root with similar properties
dogwood;a tree of shrub of the genus cornus often having showy flower-like bracts
kamchatkan sea eagle;found on coasts of western north pacific
duckbill;primitive fish of the mississippi valley having a long paddle-shaped snout
cordyline terminalis;shrub with terminal tufts of elongated leaves used locally for thatching and clothing. thick sweet roots are used as food. tropical southeastern asia, australia and hawaii
proboscidea louisianica;annual of southern united states to mexico having large whitish or yellowish flowers mottled with purple and a long curving beak
giant squid;largest mollusk known about but never seen (to 60 feet long)
phoxinus phoxinus;very small european freshwater fish common in gravelly streams
walleye;pike-like freshwater perches
great auk;large large flightless auk of rocky islands off north atlantic coast. extinct
lemur;large-eyed arboreal prosimian having foxy faces and long furry tails
frost s bolete;a fungus with a red cap and a red coarsely reticulate stalk
nicotiana glauca;evergreen south american shrub naturalized in united states. occasionally responsible for poisoning livestock
cyclamen purpurascens;mediterranean plant widely cultivated as a houseplant for its showy dark green leaves splotched with silver and nodding white or pink to reddish flowers with reflexed petals
cocozelle;squash plant having dark green fruit with skin mottled with light green or yellow
crataegus oxyacantha;evergreen hawthorn of southeastern europe
rosewood;any of those hardwood trees of the genus dalbergia that yield rosewood--valuable cabinet woods of a dark red or purplish color streaked and variegated with black
common wood sorrel;eurasian plant with heart-shaped trifoliate leaves and white pink- or purple-veined flowers
chimp;intelligent somewhat arboreal ape of equatorial african forests
black hollander;old world willow with light green leaves cultivated for use in basketry
phlebotomus papatasii;blood-sucking females can transmit sandfly fever
salicornia europaea;fleshy maritime plant having fleshy stems with rudimentary scalelike leaves and small spikes of minute flowers. formerly used in making glass
european rabbit;common grayish-brown burrowing animal native to s europe and north africa but introduced elsewhere. widely domesticated and developed in various colors and for various needs. young born naked and helpless
mud puppy;larval salamander of mountain lakes of mexico that usually lives without metamorphosing
hardstem bulrush;widely distributed north american sedge having rigid olive green stems
hermissenda crassicornis;a kind of sea slug
dolphin;any of various small toothed whales with a beaklike snout. larger than porpoises
flowering ash;shrubby california ash with showy off-white flowers
sea holly;european evergreen eryngo with twisted spiny leaves naturalized on united states east coast. roots formerly used as an aphrodisiac
calculating machine;a small machine for mathematical calculations
welsh black;welsh breed of dual-purpose cattle
monterey pine;tall california pine with long needles in bunches of 3, a dense crown, and dark brown deeply fissured bark
willow oak;medium to large deciduous oak of the eastern united states having long lanceolate leaves and soft strong wood
pinnotheres ostreum;tiny soft-bodied crab living within the mantle cavity of oysters
salsilla;tropical vine having umbels of small purple flowers and edible roots sometimes boiled as a potato substitute. colombia
velociraptor;small active carnivore that probably fed on protoceratops. possibly related more closely to birds than to other dinosaurs
aepyceros melampus;african antelope with ridged curved horns. moves with enormous leaps
rubus trivialis;of southern north america
american cranberry bush;deciduous north american shrub or small tree having three-lobed leaves and red berries
tortoise plant;south african vine having a massive rootstock covered with deeply fissured bark
gymnocladus dioica;handsome tree of central and eastern north america having large bipinnate leaves and green-white flowers followed by large woody brown pods whose seeds are used as a coffee substitute
brown cup;a variety of sclerotinia
aeonium haworthii;perennial subshrub of tenerife having leaves in pinwheellike rosettes
richmondena cardinalis;crested thick-billed north american finch having bright red plumage in the male
golden eagle;large eagle of mountainous regions of the northern hemisphere having a golden-brown head and neck
dendroica fusca;black-and-white north american wood warbler having an orange-and-black head and throat
bird vetch;common perennial climber of temperate regions of eurasia and north america having dense elongate clusters of flowers
plumcot;hybrid produced by crossing prunus domestica and prunus armeniaca
american coot;north american coot
sorex cinereus;commonest shrew of moist habitats in north america
welsh corgi;either of two welsh breeds of long-bodied short-legged dogs with erect ears and a fox-like head
mistletoe;shrub of central and southeastern europe. partially parasitic on beeches, chestnuts and oaks
rock cress;any of several rock-loving cresses of the genus arabis
saururus cernuus;north american herbaceous perennial of wet places having slender curled tail-like racemes of small white flowers
red pine;tall new zealand timber tree
great duckweed;cosmopolitan except south america and new zealand and some oceanic islands
tilia cordata;large spreading european linden with small dark green leaves. often cultivated as an ornamental
cimarron;wild sheep of mountainous regions of western north america having massive curled horns
burning bush;densely branched eurasian plant. foliage turns purple-red in autumn
asio otus;slender european owl of coniferous forests with long ear tufts
heartsease;common old world viola with creamy often violet-tinged flowers
irontree;a small slow-growing deciduous tree of northern iran having a low domed shape
common eel;eels that live in fresh water as adults but return to sea to spawn. found in europe and america. marketed both fresh and smoked
ague root;colicroot having a scurfy or granuliferous perianth and white flowers. southeastern united states
lactophrys quadricornis;trunkfish having hornlike spines over the eyes
cycad;any tropical gymnosperm of the order cycadales. having unbranched stems with a crown of fernlike leaves
bead tree;small tree of west indies and northeastern venezuela having large oblong slender-pointed leaflets and panicles of purple flowers. seeds are black or scarlet with black spots
black calla;ornamental plant of middle east cultivated for its dark purple spathe
saxifraga sarmentosam;eastern asiatic saxifrage with racemes of small red-and-white flowers. spreads by numerous creeping stolons
psittacosaur;primitive dinosaur actually lacking horns and having only the beginning of a frill. long hind and short front limbs. may have been bipedal
bay lynx;small lynx of north america
proboscis monkey;borneo monkey having a long bulbous nose
turkey;wild turkey of central and northern south america
dog stinkhorn;a stinkhorn having a stalk without a cap. the slimy gleba is simply plastered on its surface near the apex where winged insects can find it
blushing mushroom;yellowish edible agaric that usually turns red when touched
lysimachia vulgaris;frequently considered a weed. europe and asia
silver tree fern;showy tree fern of new zealand and australia area having a crown of much-pinnated fronds with whitish undersides
arariba;brazilian tree with handsomely marked wood
orange tortrix;california moth whose larvae live in esp. oranges
zigadenus elegans;plant of western north america having grasslike leaves and greenish-white flowers
celtis australis;bright green deciduous shade tree of southern europe
loggerhead;very large carnivorous sea turtle. wide ranging in warm open seas
pogonia;any hardy bog orchid of the genus pogonia: terrestrial orchids having slender rootstocks and erect stems bearing one or a few leaves and a solitary terminal flower
mistletoe fig;shrub or small tree often grown as a houseplant having mistletoelike foliage
spinning jenny;an early multiple-spindle spinning machine
sole;right-eyed flatfish. many are valued as food. most common in warm seas esp. european
coeloglossum bracteatum;orchid with broad ovate leaves and long-bracted green very irregular flowers
passiflora laurifolia;west indian passionflower. cultivated for its yellow edible fruit
bunny rabbit;(usually informal) especially a young rabbit
pack animal;an animal such as a mule or burro or horse used to carry loads
oriental bittersweet;ornamental asiatic vine with showy orange-yellow fruit with a scarlet aril. naturalized in north america
linnet;small old world finch whose male has a red breast and forehead
red sanders;tree of india and east indies yielding a hard fragrant timber prized for cabinetwork and dark red heartwood used as a dyewood
hog sucker;widely distributed in warm clear shallow streams
laser printer;a printer that focuses a laser beam to form images that are transferred to paper electrostatically
xeranthemum annuum;mostly widely cultivated species of everlasting flowers having usually purple flowers. southern europe to iran. naturalized elsewhere
beefwood;tree or tall shrub with shiny leaves and umbels of fragrant creamy-white flowers. yields hard heavy reddish wood
pepper tree;small peruvian evergreen with broad rounded head and slender pendant branches with attractive clusters of greenish flowers followed by clusters of rose-pink fruits
elanus leucurus;gray-and-white american kite of warm and tropical regions
amboyna;tree native to southeastern asia having reddish wood with a mottled or striped black grain
palmyra;tall fan palm of africa and india and malaysia yielding a hard wood and sweet sap that is a source of palm wine and sugar. leaves used for thatching and weaving
thamnophis proximus;yellow- or reddish-striped snake of temperate woodlands and grasslands to tropics
rana sylvatica;wide-ranging light-brown frog of moist north american woodlands esp. spruce
osmunda regalis;large deeply rooted fern of worldwide distribution with upright bipinnate compound tufted fronds
turk s cap;lily of the eastern united states with orange to red maroon-spotted flowers
rock spikemoss;tufted spikemoss forming loose spreading mats. eastern north america
cercopithecus aethiops;white and olive green east african monkey with long white tufts of hair beside the face
beauty bush;chinese deciduous shrub with yellow-throated pinkish flowers and bristly fruit. often cultivated as an ornamental
silverside;small fishes having a silver stripe along each side. found along the atlantic coast of the united states
yellow leaf sickle pine;rainforest tree or shrub of new caledonia having a conic crown and pale green sickle-shaped leaves. host species for the rare parasite yew
rhea;larger of two tall fast-running flightless birds similar to ostriches but three-toed. found from brazil to patagonia
evening trumpet flower;poisonous woody evergreen vine of southeastern united states having fragrant yellow funnel-shaped flowers
scotch pine;medium large 2-needled pine of northern europe and asia having flaking red-brown bark
diervilla sessilifolia;bush honeysuckle of southeastern united states having large crowded clusters of sulfur-yellow flowers
automat;a vending machine from which you can get food
herb paris;european herb with yelow-green flowers resembling and closely related to the trilliums. reputed to be poisonous
blue devil;a coarse prickly european weed with spikes of blue flowers. naturalized in united states
honduras rosewood;central american tree yielding a valuable dark streaked rosewood
baranduki;terrestrial siberian squirrel
loranthaceae;in some classification includes viscaceae: parasitic or hemiparasitic shrublets or shrubs or small trees of tropical and temperate regions. attach to hosts by haustoria
erinaceus europeaeus;small nocturnal old world mammal covered with both hair and protective spines
golden fern;stout tropical swamp fern (especially tropical america) having large fronds with golden yellow sporangia covering the undersides
screech owl;any owl that has a screeching cry
tree of knowledge;the biblical tree in the garden of eden whose forbidden fruit was tasted by adam and eve
robin s plantain;common perennial of eastern north america having flowers with usually violet-purple rays
tresses;orchid having dense clusters of gently spiraling creamy white flowers with 2 upper petals forming a hood. western north america
true sago palm;malaysian palm whose pithy trunk yields sago--a starch used as a food thickener and fabric stiffener. malaya to fiji
mycteroperca bonaci;large dark grouper with a thick head and rough scales
cupressus gualalupensis;relatively low wide-spreading endemic on guadalupe island. cultivated for its bluish foliage
mustelus mustelus;smooth dogfish of european coastal waters
morchella crassipes;a delicious morel with a conic fertile portion having deep and irregular pits
timothy;grass with long cylindrical spikes frown in northern united states and europe for hay
bellows fish;small bottom-dwelling fish of warm seas having a compressed body and a long snout with a toothless mouth
gray jay;gray jay of northern north america with black-capped head and no crest. noted for boldness in thievery
alnus veridis crispa;north american shrub with light green leaves and winged nuts
nemertine;soft unsegmented marine worms having a threadlike proboscis and the ability to stretch and contract
rocky mountain whitefish;whitefish of the western united states and canada
conocarpus erectus;evergreen tree or shrub with fruit resembling buttons and yielding heavy hard compact wood
snake mackerel;predatory tropical fishes with jutting jaws and strong teeth
candlestick tulip;eurasian tulip with small flowers blotched at the base
ormosia monosperma;small tree of west indies and northeastern venezuela having large oblong slender-pointed leaflets and panicles of purple flowers. seeds are black or scarlet with black spots
polanisia graveolens;strong-scented herb common in southern united states covered with intermixed gland and hairs
guillemot;small black or brown speckled auks of northern seas
wild basil;aromatic herb having heads of small pink or whitish flowers. widely distributed in united states, europe and asia
parthenocissus tricuspidata;asiatic vine with three-lobed leaves and purple berries
mandarin orange tree;shrub or small tree having flattened globose fruit with very sweet aromatic pulp and thin yellow-orange to flame-orange rind that is loose and easily removed. native to southeastern asia
trumpet vine;evergreen north american honeysuckle vine having coral-red or orange flowers
marine iguana;shore-dwelling seaweed-eating lizard of the galapagos islands
blue eyed mary;eastern united states plant with whorls of blue-and-white flowers
przewalski s horse;wild horse of central asia that resembles an ass. now endangered
chub;european freshwater game fish with a thick spindle-shaped body
common beech;large european beech with minutely-toothed leaves. widely planted as an ornamental in north america
russian wolfhound;tall fast-moving dog breed
phacelia whitlavia;desert plant of southern california with blue or violet tubular flowers in terminal racemes
english bean;old world upright plant grown especially for its large flat edible seeds but also as fodder
gooney bird;a variety of albatross with black feet
alcedo atthis;small kingfisher with greenish-blue and orange plumage
lepus europaeus;large hare introduced in north america. does not turn white in winter
skipjack;medium-sized tuna-like food fish of warm atlantic and pacific waters. less valued than tuna
lace flower vine;low-growing creeping perennial of central america having deeply fringed white flowers. sometimes placed in genus episcia
silverbush;deciduous unarmed north american shrub with silvery leaves and fruits
carissa macrocarpa;very large closely branched south african shrub having forked bright green spines and shiny leaves
aleuria aurantia;a discomycete with bright orange cup-shaped or saucer-shaped fruiting bodies and pale orange exteriors
penstemon davidsonii;mat-forming plant with blue-lavender flowers clustered on short erect stems. british columbia to northern california
gentiana villosa;a perennial marsh ventian of eastern north america
killdeer;american plover of inland waters and fields having a distinctive cry
single leaf;pinon of southwestern united states having solitary needles and often many stems. important as a nut pine
norwich terrier;english breed of small short-legged terrier with a straight wiry red or gray or black-and-tan coat and erect ears
yellow fever mosquito;mosquito that transmits yellow fever and dengue
acacia;any of various spiny trees or shrubs of the genus acacia
saffron;old world crocus having purple or white flowers with aromatic pungent orange stigmas used in flavoring food
hepatitis a virus;the virus causing hepatitis a
microsorium punctatum;tropical africa to australasia and polynesia
lentil plant;widely cultivated eurasian annual herb grown for its edible flattened seeds that are cooked like peas and also ground into meal and for its leafy stalks that are used as fodder
scrod;young atlantic cod or haddock esp. one split and boned for cooking
goonie;a variety of albatross with black feet
armillariella mellea;a honey-colored edible mushroom commonly associated with the roots of trees in late summer and fall. do not eat raw
hartford fern;delicate fern of the eastern united states having a twining stem and palmately-lobed sterile fronds and forked fertile fronds
deathwatch beetle;bores through wood making a ticking sound popularly thought to presage death
teju;large (to 3 feet) blackish yellow-banded south american lizard. raid henhouses. used as food
begonia;any of numerous plants of the genus begonia grown for their attractive glossy asymmetrical leaves and colorful flowers in usually terminal cymes or racemes
drum printer;a line printer in which the type is mounted on a rotating drum that contains a full character set for each printing position
polistes annularis;a variety of paper wasp
gallinago gallinago;common snipe of eurasia and africa
aster;erect perennial of southeastern united states having large heads of usually blue flowers
rod;any rod-shaped bacterium
fanwort;common aquatic plant of eastern north america having floating and submerged leaves and white yellow-spotted flowers
pholis gunnellus;slippery scaleless food fish of north atlantic coastal waters
spanish chestnut;wild or cultivated throughout southern europe, northwestern africa and southwestern asia
california sea lion;often trained as a show animal
water hen;north american coot
styracosaurus;an unusual ceratopsian dinosaur having many large spikes around the edge of its bony frill and a long nose horn. late cretaceous
standard poodle;a medium-sized poodle
pyrola rotundifolia americana;evergreen of eastern north america with leathery leaves and numerous white flowers
felicia amelloides;hairy south african or australian subshrub with blue-rayed daisylike flowers
basidiolichen;a lichen in which the fungus component is a basidiomycete
anagallis arvensis;herb with scarlet or white or purple blossoms that close at approach of rainy weather
strizostedion vitreum glaucum;variety inhabiting the great lakes
white lupine;white-flowered eurasian herb widely cultivated for forage and erosion control
mink;slender-bodied semiaquatic mammal having partially webbed feet. valued for its fur
tanbark oak;evergreen oak of the pacific coast area having large leathery leaves. yields tanbark
jerusalem thorn;east indian spiny tree having twice-pinnate leaves and yellow flowers followed by flat pods. source of black catechu
raoulia lutescens;perennial prostrate mat-forming herb with hoary woolly foliage
california white fir;medium to tall fir of central to western united states having a narrow erect crown and soft wood
leopard cat;small spotted wildcat of southern asia and malaysia
atlantic manta;largest manta (to 22 feet across wings). found worldwide but common in gulf of mexico and along southern coasts of united states. primarily oceanic
lilium philadelphicum;lily of eastern north america having orange to orange-red purple-spotted flowers
carthamus tinctorius;thistlelike eurasian plant widely grown for its red or orange flower heads and seeds that yield a valuable oil
fringed poppy mallow;perennial poppy mallow of united states southern plains states having rose-red or rose-purple flowers
galium mollugo;eurasian herb with ample panicles of small white flowers. naturalized in north america
self feeder;a machine that automatically provides a supply of some material (especially one that discharges feed into a trough for livestock)
parrot;usually brightly colored zygodactyl tropical birds with short hooked beaks and the ability to mimic sounds
bluebonnet;low-growing annual herb of southwestern united states (texas) having silky foliage and blue flowers
little spotted skunk;small skunk with a marbled black and white coat. of united states and mexico
magnolia;any shrub or tree of the genus magnolia. valued for their longevity and exquisite fragrant blooms
culex fatigans;widespread tropical mosquito that transmits filarial worms
cactus;any spiny succulent plant of the family cactaceae native chiefly to arid regions of the new world
menopon gallinae;parasitic on poultry
english toy spaniel;british breed having a long silky coat and rounded head with a short upturned muzzle
pathogen;any disease-producing agent esp. a virus or bacterium or other microorganism
elkhound;breed of compact medium-sized dog with a heavy gray coat developed in norway for hunting elk
horn poppy;yellow-flowered eurasian glaucous herb naturalized in along sandy shores in eastern north america
arundo conspicua;used by maoris for thatching
parnassia palustris;plant having ovate leaves in a basal rosette and white starlike flowers netted with green
nothofagus menziesii;new zealand beech with usually pale silvery bark
amaranthus graecizans;bushy plant of western united states
pitch pine;large 3-needled pine of southeastern united states having very long needles and gnarled twisted limbs. bark is red-brown deeply ridgedged. an important timber tree
angiopteris;highly variable species of very large primitive ferns of the pacific tropical areas with high rainfall
lapwing;large crested old world plover having wattles and spurs
common osier;willow with long flexible twigs used in basketry
tragopogon pratensis;weedy european annual with yellow flowers. naturalized in united states
pomaderris apetala;australian tree grown especially for ornament and its fine-grained wood and bearing edible nuts
agrimonia eupatoria;erect perennial old world herb of dry grassy habitats
ten spined stickleback;confined to rivers
nimble will;slender branching american grass of some value for grazing in central united states
red eft;red terrestrial form of a common north american newt
yellow locust;large thorny tree of eastern and central united states having pinnately compound leaves and drooping racemes of white flowers. widely naturalized in many varieties in temperate regions
acanthus;any plant of the genus acanthus having large spiny leaves and spikes or white or purplish flowers. native to mediterranean region but widely cultivated
duke of argyll s tea tree;deciduous erect or spreading shrub with spiny branches and violet-purple flowers followed by orange-red berries. southeastern europe to china
tragulus kanchil;small chevrotain of southeastern asia
bedstraw;any of several plants of the genus galium
andelmin;any of several tropical american trees of the genus andira
obedience plant;white-flowered west indian plant whose root yields arrowroot starch
bandicoot;any of various agile rat-like terrestrial marsupials of australia and adjacent islands. insectivorous and herbivorous
ring necked pheasant;common pheasant having bright plumage and a white neck ring
queen;female cat
centrocercus urophasianus;large grouse of sagebrush regions of north america
miro;new zealand conifer
crataegus apiifolia;southern united states hawthorn with pinnately lobed leaves
fulmarus glacialis;heavy short-tailed oceanic bird of polar regions
bearded wheatgrass;a wheatgrass with straight terminal awns on the flowering glumes
suckerfish;marine fishes with a flattened elongated body and a sucking disk on the head for attaching to large fish or moving objects
kite;any of several small graceful hawks of the family accipitridae having long pointed wings and feeding on insects and small animals
dwarf mulberry;creeping raspberry of north temperate regions with yellow or orange berries
typesetting machine;a machine that sets textual material in type
botfly;stout-bodied hairy dipterous fly whose larvae are parasites on humans and other mammals
scentless hayweed;ubiquitous european annual weed with white flowers and finely divided leaves naturalized and sometimes cultivated in eastern north america. sometimes included in genus matricaria
armyworm;larva of fungus gnat. march in large companies in regular order
oligochaete;hermaphroditic terrestrial and aquatic annelids having bristles borne singly along the length of the body
swamp cottonwood;north american poplar with large rounded scalloped leaves and brownish bark and wood
deadly nightshade;perennial eurasian herb with reddish bell-shaped flowers and shining black berries. extensively grown in united states. roots and leaves yield atropine
chilean bonito;common bonito of pacific coast of the americas. its dark oily flesh cans well
hops;twining perennials having cordate leaves and flowers arranged in conelike spikes
martynia fragrans;a herbaceous plant of the genus proboscidea
calabash;old world climbing plant with hard-shelled bottle-shaped gourds as fruits
scophthalmus aquosus;very thin translucent flounder of the atlantic coast of north america
hypericum crux andrae;shrubby plant having yellow to apricot flowers with four petals arranged in a cross. southeastern united states: new york to texas
mucuna pruriens utilis;annual semi-woody vine of asia having long clusters of purplish flowers and densely hairy pods. cultivated in southern united states for green manure and grazing
sandhopper;small amphipod crustaceans that hop like fleas. common on ocean beaches
grous whortleberry;shrub of northwestern north america bearing red berries
lotus tetragonolobus;sprawling european annual having a 4-winged edible pod
pudding pipe tree;deciduous or semi-evergreen tree having scented sepia to yellow flowers in drooping racemes and pods whose pulp is used medicinally. tropical asia and central and south america and australia
red phalarope;phalarope of northern oceans and lakes
phlox bifida;low mat-forming herb of rocky places in united states
carolina pond fern;small free-floating aquatic fern from the eastern united states to tropical america. naturalized in western and southern europe
malacothamnus fasciculatus;shrub of coastal ranges of california and baja california having hairy branches and spikes of numerous mauve flowers. sometimes placed in genus_sphaeralcea
oryx gazella;large south african oryx with a broad black band along its flanks
linaria canadensis;north american plant having racemes of blue-violet flowers
japanese medlar;evergreen tree of warm regions having fuzzy yellow olive-sized fruit with a large free stone. native to china and japan
prunus spinosa;a thorny eurasian bush with plumlike fruits
nelumbo lutea;water lily of eastern north america having pale yellow blossoms and edible globular nutlike seeds
standing press;a large press that exerts pressure vertically
imperial elephant;largest known mammoth. of america
nemophila menziesii;delicate california annual having blue flowers marked with dark spots
hyena dog;a powerful doglike mammal of south and east africa that hunts in large packs. now rare in settled area
siluriform fish;any of numerous mostly freshwater bottom-living fishes of eurasia and north america with barbels like whiskers around the mouth
titanosaur;amphibious quadrupedal herbivorous dinosaur with a long thin neck and whiplike tail. of the cretaceous mostly in the southern hemisphere
sassaby;large south african antelope. considered the swiftest hoofed mammal
horned poppy;yellow-flowered eurasian glaucous herb naturalized in along sandy shores in eastern north america
spartium junceum;tall thornless shrub having pale yellow flowers and flexible rushlike twigs used in basketry. of southwestern europe and mediterranean. naturalized in california
winter urn;a common name for a variety of sarcosomataceae
grevillea;any shrub or tree of the genus grevillea
red bellied snake;harmless woodland snake of southeastern united states
ribbonwood;small tree or shrub of new zealand having a profusion of axillary clusters of honey-scented paper-white flowers and whose bark is used for cordage
nemertean;soft unsegmented marine worms having a threadlike proboscis and the ability to stretch and contract
bottletree;an australian tree of the genus brachychiton
great horned owl;brown north american horned owl
princess pine;a variety of clubmoss
plum;any of several trees producing edible oval smooth-skinned fruit with a single hard stone
roan;horse having a roan coat
prince of wales heath;south african shrub grown for its profusion of white flowers
mosquito hawk;mainly nocturnal north american goatsucker
cockspur;widely grown stout old world hay and pasture grass
illicium anisatum;small shrubby tree of japan and taiwan. flowers are not fragrant
leporid mammal;rabbits and hares
mamoncillo;tropical american tree bearing a small edible fruit with green leathery skin and sweet juicy translucent pulp
downy poplar;north american poplar with large rounded scalloped leaves and brownish bark and wood
phaseolus lunatus;bush bean plant cultivated especially in southern united states having small flat edible seeds
jalapeno;plant bearing very hot and finely tapering long peppers. usually red
physalis viscosa;found on sea beaches from virginia to south america having greenish-yellow flowers and orange or yellow berries
jenny wren;and of several small active brown birds of the northern hemisphere with short upright tails. they feed on insects
kyo chiku;immense tropical southeast asian bamboo with tough hollow culms that resemble tree trunks
zinfandel;small black grape grown chiefly in california. transplanted from europe
harvest mouse;small reddish-brown eurasian mouse inhabiting e.g. cornfields
golden ragwort;weedy herb of the eastern united states to texas having golden-yellow flowers. sometimes becomes invasive. sometimes placed in genus senecio
peridinian;flagellate with a thick test composed of plates
aldrovanda vesiculosa;floating aquatic carnivorous perennial of central and southern europe, africa, asia, australia having whorls of 6 to 9 leaves ending in hinged lobes for capturing e.g. water fleas
bitter cress;any of various herbs of the genus cardamine, having usually pinnate leaves and racemes of white, pink or purple flowers. cosmopolitan except antarctic
header;a machine that cuts the heads off grain and moves them into a wagon
leatherleaf;stiff leathery-leaved fern of western north america having ovate fronds parted to the midrib
synapsid reptile;extinct reptile having a single pair of lateral temporal openings in the skull
painted tongue;chilean herb having velvety funnel-shaped yellowish or violet flowers with long tonguelike styles at the corolla throat
european field elm;european elm with lustrous smooth leaves used as an ornamental
pride of india;native to asia, australia, and east indies, where it provides timber called pyinma. used elsewhere as an ornamental for its large showy flowers
lentil;widely cultivated eurasian annual herb grown for its edible flattened seeds that are cooked like peas and also ground into meal and for its leafy stalks that are used as fodder
cinchona pubescens;small tree of ecuador and peru having very large glossy leaves and large panicles of fragrant pink flowers. cultivated for its medicinal bark
mescal;a small spineless globe-shaped cactus. source of mescal buttons
allium sphaerocephalum;old world leek with a spherical bulb
cinclus mexicanus;a water ouzel of western north america
analogue computer;a computer that represents information by variable quantities (e.g., positions or voltages)
salix cinerea;eurasian shrubby willow with whitish tomentose twigs
gand flower;small european perennial with numerous branches having racemes of blue, pink or white flowers. formerly reputed to promote human lactation
horsetail lichen;any of several lichens of the genus alectoria having a thallus consisting of filaments resembling hair
rein orchid;any of several american wildflowers with a kidney-shaped lip
bird of paradise;a tropical flowering shrub having bright orange or red flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
crab eating fox;wild dog of northern south america
cirsium helenioides;perennial stoloniferous thistle of northern europe with lanceolate basal leaves and usually solitary heads of reddish-purple flowers
heartsease;a common and long cultivated european herb from which most common garden pansies are derived
kogia breviceps;small sperm whale of warm waters of both coasts of north america
stony coral;corals having calcareous skeletons aggregations of which form reefs and islands
quail;small gallinaceous game birds
tricholoma pardinum;a poisonous agaric having a pale cap with fine gray fibrils
bufflehead;small north american diving duck. males have bushy head plumage
hackney;a compact breed of harness horse
trachipterus arcticus;deep-sea ribbonfish
potato moth;grayish-brown moth whose larva is the potato tuberworm
collinsia heterophylla;white and lavender to pale-blue flowers grow in perfect rings of widely spaced bands around the stems forming a kind of pagoda. california
conacaste;tropical south american tree having a wide-spreading crown of bipinnate leaves and coiled ear-shaped fruits. grown for shade and ornament as well as valuable timber
greek valerian;erect or spreading perennial of the eastern united states
acarid;very small free-living arachnid that is parasitic on animals or plants. related to ticks
puff adder;harmless north american snake with upturned nose. may spread its head and neck or play dead when disturbed
cony;any of various burrowing animals of the family leporidae having long ears and short tails. some domesticated and raised for pets or food
german short haired pointer;liver or liver-and-white hunting dog developed in germany. 3/4 pointer and 1/4 bloodhound
rattlesnake root;a plant of the genus nabalus
heritiera macrophylla;large evergreen tree of india and burma whose leaves are silvery beneath
may beetle;any of various large usually brown north american leaf-eating beetles common in late spring. the larvae feed on roots of grasses etc.
malheur wire lettuce;small mustardlike plant of oregon. a threatened species
cliff penstemon;one of the west's most beautiful wildflowers. large brilliant pink or rose flowers in many racemes above thick mats of stems and leaves. ledges and cliffs from washington to california
true jasmine;tall-climbing deciduous shrub with fragrant white or yellow or red flowers used in perfume and to flavor tea
cronartium ribicola;fungus causing white pine blister rust and having a complex life cycle requiring a plant of genus ribes as alternate host
saiga tatarica;goat-like antelope of central eurasia having a stubby nose like a proboscis
dallisgrass;tall tufted perennial tropical american grass naturalized as pasture and forage grass in southern united states
sphacele calycina;california plant with woolly stems and leaves and large white flowers
mediterranean snapdragon;perennial native to the mediterranean but widely cultivated for its purple or pink flowers
spinach plant;southwestern asian plant widely cultivated for its succulent edible dark green leaves
black horehound;ill-smelling european herb with rugose leaves and whorls of dark purple flowers
scarabaeus sacer;scarabaeid beetle considered divine by ancient egyptians
lysimachia clethroides duby;a variety of the loosestrife herb
american marten;valued for its fur
boocercus eurycerus;large forest antelope of central africa having a reddish-brown coat with white stripes and spiral horns
seneca snakeroot;eastern north american plant having a terminal cluster of small white flowers and medicinal roots
wharf rat;brown rat that infests wharves
alpinia speciosa;cultivated for its shining oblong leaves and arching clusters of white flowers with shell-pink shading and crinkled yellow lip with variegated magenta stripes
coralberry;shrub with coral-red berries. japan to northern india
cyclamen hederifolium;common wild european cyclamen with pink flowers
juncus leseurii;rush of north american pacific coast
pinguinus impennis;large large flightless auk of rocky islands off north atlantic coast. extinct
giant conch;a large variety of conch
christmas tree;australian tree or shrub with red flowers. often used in christmas decoration
arctic willow;low creeping shrub of arctic europe and america
quercus marilandica;a common scrubby deciduous tree of central and southeastern united states having dark bark and broad 3-lobed (club-shaped) leaves. tends to form dense thickets
ormer;found near the channel islands
hen;adult female chicken
anemone nemorosa;european anemone with solitary white flowers common in deciduous woodlands
polyzoan;sessile aquatic animal forming mosslike colonies of small polyps each having a curved or circular ridge bearing tentacles. attach to stones or seaweed and reproduce by budding
jerusalem artichoke;tall perennial with hairy stems and leaves. widely cultivated for its large irregular edible tubers
banyan tree;east indian tree that puts out aerial shoots that grow down into the soil forming additional trunks
pagrus pagrus;food fish of the mediterranean and atlantic coasts of europe and america
alpine woodsia;slender fern of northern north america with shining chestnut-colored stipes and bipinnate fronds with usually distinct marginal sori
styrax japonicum;shrubby tree of china and japan
scup;porgy of southern atlantic coastal waters of north america
rock partridge;of mountainous areas of southern europe
sweet orange;probably native to southern china. widely cultivated as source of table and juice oranges
ass;hardy and sure-footed animal smaller and with longer ears than the horse
porgy;important deep-bodied food and sport fish of warm and tropical coastal waters. found worldwide
star tulip;small plant with slender bent stems bearing branched clusters of a few white star-shaped flowers with petals shaped like cat's ears. southeastern washington and northeastern oregon to montana
orchis mascula;eurasian orchid with showy pink or purple flowers in a loose spike
wollemi pine;newly discovered (1994) pine thought to have been long extinct. australia. genus and species names not yet assigned
diospyros virginiana;medium-sized tree of dry woodlands in the southern and eastern united states bearing yellow or orange very astringent fruit that is edible when fully ripe
pritzelago alpina;small tufted perennial herb of mountains of central and southern europe having very small flowers of usually leafless stems. sometimes placed in genus lepidium
mealybug;scale-like plant-eating insect coated with a powdery waxy secretion. destructive esp. of fruit trees
simulator;a machine that simulates an environment for the purpose of training or research
coot;slaty-black slow-flying birds somewhat resembling ducks
hygrophorus sordidus;an edible fungus with a large white cap and a cry stalk and white gills
acer saccharum;maple of eastern and central north america having 3- to 5-lobed leaves and hard close-grained wood much used for cabinet work especially the curly-grained form. sap is chief source of maple syrup and maple sugar. many subspecies
rosy boa;boa of rocky desert of southwestern united states
zea mays;tall annual cereal grass bearing kernels on large ears: widely cultivated in america in many varieties. the principal cereal in mexico and central and south america since pre-columbian times
marmalade box;tree of the west indies and northern south america bearing succulent edible orange-sized fruit
polar hare;large hare of arctic america almost completely white in winter
laptop;a computer small enough to use in your lap
white snakeroot;american herb having flat-topped clusters of small white flower heads. reputedly a cause of trembles and milksickness. sometimes placed in genus eupatorium
prickly shield fern;north american fern whose more or less evergreen leathery fronds are covered with pale brown chafflike scales
calamus;any tropical asian palm of the genus calamus. light tough stems are a source of rattan canes
cock of the rock;bird of the andes similar to rupicola rupicola
zalophus californianus;often trained as a show animal
northern dune tansy;lightly hairy rhizomatous perennial having aromatic feathery leaves and stems bearing open clusters of small buttonlike yellow flowers. sand dunes of pacific coast of north america
hibiscus rosa sinensis;large showy asiatic shrub or small tree having large single or double red to deep-red flowers
salt tree;spiny shrub of thhhe caspian salt plains and siberia having elegant silve3ry-downy young foliage and mildly fragrant pink-purple blooms
smooth woodsia;rock-inhabiting fern of arctic and subarctic europe to eastern asia
enchanter s nightshade;any of several erect perennial rhizomatous herbs of the genus circaea having white flowers that open at dawn. northern hemisphere
phylloxera vitifoleae;destructive to various grape plants
false baby s breath;eurasian herb with ample panicles of small white flowers. naturalized in north america
caudate;amphibians that resemble lizards
pitymys pinetorum;short-tailed glossy-furred burrowing vole of the eastern united states
raccoon dog;small wild dog of eastern asia having facial markings like those of a raccoon
tropic bird;mostly white web-footed tropical seabird often found far from land
corbina;bluish-gray whiting of california coast
ramp;north american perennial having a slender bulb and whitish flowers
podocarpus ferruginea;new zealand conifer
cheewink;common towhee of eastern north america
passiflora foetida;tropical american passion flower with finely dissected bracts. stems malodorous when crushed
weld;european mignonette cultivated as a source of yellow dye. naturalized in north america
greenshank;large european sandpiper with greenish legs
blue goose;north american wild goose having dark plumage in summer but white in winter
ankylosaur;having the back covered with thick bony plates. thought to have walked with a sprawling gait resembling a lizard's
scotch fir;medium large 2-needled pine of northern europe and asia having flaking red-brown bark
paper birch;small american birch with peeling white bark often worked into e.g. baskets or toy canoes
king crab;large marine arthropod of the american atlantic coast having a domed horseshoe-shaped carapace and stiff pointed tail. a living fossil related to the wood louse
infusorian;any member of the subclass infusoria
pythium;any fungus of the genus pythium
host;an animal or plant that nourishes and supports a parasite. the host does not benefit and is often harmed by the association
buteo lineatus;north american hawk with reddish brown shoulders
piassava palm;brazilian palm yielding fibers used in making ropes, mats, and brushes
pogonia divaricata;orchid of northeastern united states with magenta-pink flowers having funnel-shaped lip. sometimes placed in genus pogonia
chiacoan peccary;a recently discovered large wild pig of paraguay
dynamo;a coil (the armature) rotates between the poles of an electromagnet (the field magnet) causing a current to flow in the armature
cetonia aurata;a common metallic green european beetle: larvae feed on plant roots and adults on leaves and flowers of e.g. roses
water bitternut;hickory of southern united states having many narrow leaflets and rather bitter nuts
english bulldog;a sturdy thickset short-haired breed with a large head and strong undershot lower jaw. developed originally in england for bull baiting
saxifraga occidentalis;saxifrage having loose clusters of white flowers on hairy stems growing from a cluster of basal leaves. moist slopes of western north america
camosh;any of several plants of the genus camassia. north and south america
billy goat;male goat
pan paniscus;small chimpanzee of swamp forests in zaire. a threatened species
adder s tongue;ferns with fertile spikes shaped like a snake's tongue
ming tree;an artificial plant resembling a bonsai
hyperglyphe perciformis;blackish fish of new england waters
eastern pasque flower;short hairy perennial with early spring blue-violet or lilac flowers. north america and siberia
listera cordata;orchid having two triangular leaves and a short lax raceme of green to rust-colored flowers with the lip flushed mauve. europe and asia and north america and greenland
coast banksia;shrubby tree with silky foliage and spikes of cylindrical yellow nectarous flowers
clupea harangus;commercially important food fish of northern waters of both atlantic and pacific
golden wonder millet;millet having yellow grains in large drooping spikes
midwife toad;european toad whose male carries the fertilized eggs wrapped around its hind legs until they hatch
touch me not;prostrate or semi-erect subshrub of tropical america, and australia. heavily armed with recurved thorns and having sensitive soft gray-green leaflets that fold and droop at night or when touched or cooled
zinnia acerosa;subshrub with slender woolly stems and long narrow leaves and flower heads with white rays. southern united states and northern mexico
limpet;any of various usually marine gastropods with low conical shells. found clinging to rocks in littoral areas
babylonian weeping willow;willow with long drooping branches and slender leaves native to china. widely cultivated as an ornamental
homogyne alpina;rhizomatous herb with purple-red flowers suitable for groundcover. sometimes placed in genus tussilago
stinking iris;iris with purple flowers and evil-smelling leaves. southern and western europe and north africa
large white;old world form
lama pacos;domesticated llama with long silky fleece. believed to be a domesticated variety of the guanaco
chorus frog;any of several small north american frogs having a loud call
arcella;an amoeba-like protozoan with a chitinous shell resembling an umbrella
eastern flowering dogwood;deciduous tree. celebrated for its large white or pink flower-like bracts and stunning autumn color followed by red berries
kildeer;american plover of inland waters and fields having a distinctive cry
spittle insect;small leaping herbivorous insect that lives in a mass of protective froth which it and its larvae secrete
physostigma venenosum;tropical african woody vine yielding calabar beans
cocobolo;a valuable timber tree of tropical south america
rainbow seaperch;pacific coast fish
nurse shark;small bottom-dwelling shark of warm shallow waters on both coasts of north and south america and from southeast asia to australia
acrocomia vinifera;tropical american palm having edible nuts and yielding a useful fiber
polygonatum biflorum;north american perennial herb with smooth foliage and drooping tubular greenish flowers
hypoxis hirsuta;perennial star grass of north america
leaf cutter;bee that cuts rounded pieces from leaves and flowers to line its nest
sheep fescue;cultivated for sheep pasturage in upland regions or used as a lawn grass
mussel shrimp;tiny marine and freshwater crustaceans with a shrimp-like body enclosed in a bivalve shell
torch;tall-stalked very woolly mullein with densely packed yellow flowers. ancient greeks and romans dipped the stalks in tallow for funeral torches
lychins chalcedonica;eurasian garden perennial having scarlet flowers in dense terminal heads
cowslip;swamp plant of europe and north america having bright yellow flowers resembling buttercups
spanish heath;erect dense shrub native to western iberian peninsula having profuse white or pink flowers. naturalized in southwestern england
white milkweed;tall herb with leafless waxy-white stems and whitish starlike flowers. southwestern united states
pyracantha;any of various thorny shrubs of the genus pyracantha bearing small white flowers followed by hard red or orange-red berries
trifoliate orange;small fast-growing spiny deciduous chinese orange tree bearing sweetly scented flowers and decorative but inedible fruit: used as a stock in grafting and for hedges
thiobacillus;small rod-shaped bacteria living in sewage or soil and oxidizing sulfur
cape jasmine;evergreen shrub widely cultivated for its large fragrant waxlike white flowers and glossy leaves
willow;a machine having a system of revolving spikes for opening and cleaning raw textile fibers
gracilariid moth;small dull or metallic-colored tineoid moths whose larvae mine in plant leaves
asarum virginicum;evergreen low-growing perennial having mottled green and silvery-gray heart-shaped pungent leaves. virginia to south carolina
marsilea quadrifolia;water fern of europe and asia and the eastern united states distinguished by four clover-like leaflets
blue cardinal flower;tall erect and very leafy perennial herb of eastern north america having dense spikes of blue flowers
ocyurus chrysurus;superior food fish of the tropical atlantic and caribbean with broad yellow stripe along the sides and on the tail
clusia rosea;a common tropical american clusia having solitary white or rose flowers
killer whale;predatory black-and-white toothed whale with large dorsal fin. common in cold seas
mulloway;large important food fish of australia. almost indistinguishable from the maigre
star leaf begonia;rhizomatous begonia having leaves with pointed lobes suggestive of stars and pink flowers
bell heather;common low european shrub with purple-red flowers
speckled alder;common shrub of canada and northeastern united states having shoots scattered with rust-colored down
garcinia cambogia;low spreading tree of indonesia yielding an orange to brown gum resin (gamboge) used as a pigment when powdered
wild pink;perennial of eastern and central north america having short-stalked pink or white flowers in hairy clusters
cheiranthus asperus;biennial or short-lived perennial prairie rocket having orange-yellow flowers. western north america to minnesota and kansas. sometimes placed in genus cheiranthus
black buffalo;fish of the lower mississippi
bryonia dioica;bryony having fleshy roots pale green flowers and very small red berries. europe. north africa. western asia
salix candida;north american shrub with whitish canescent leaves
razorback;any of several baleen whales of of the family balaenopteridae having longitudinal grooves on the throat and a small pointed dorsal fin
euphorbia caput medusae;african dwarf succulent perennial shrub with numerous slender drooping branches
chatterer;passerine bird of new world tropics
harbor porpoise;the common porpoise of the north atlantic and pacific
kelpwort;bushy plant of old world salt marshes and sea beaches having prickly leaves. burned to produce a crude soda ash
rana cascadae;mountain frog found near water. of united states northwest to california
bumelia lanuginosa;deciduous tree of southeastern united states and mexico
dendroica auduboni;common warbler of western north america
star of the veldt;any of several south african plants grown for the profusion of usually yellow daisylike flowers and mounds of aromatic foliage
fraxinus tomentosa;timber tree of central and southeastern united states having hairy branchlets and a swollen trunk base
campanula pyramidalis;bellflower of southeastern europe
japanese iris;iris native to japan having large showy flowers
eutamius asiaticus;terrestrial siberian squirrel
irish terrier;medium-sized breed with a wiry brown coat. developed in ireland
picrasma excelsa;west indian tree yielding the drug jamaica quassia
migrant shrike;of central north america. winters in texas and the south mississippi valley
garden rocket;erect european annual often grown as a salad crop to be harvested when young and tender
ulmus campestris wheatleyi;a variety of the english elm with erect branches and broader leaves
garter snake;any of numerous nonvenomous longitudinally-striped viviparous north and central american snakes
lampropeltis triangulum;nonvenomous tan and brown king snake with an arrow-shaped occipital spot. southeastern ones have red stripes like coral snakes
ruminant;any of various cud-chewing hoofed mammals having a stomach divided into four (occasionally three) compartments
greenbottle fly;blowfly with brilliant coppery green body
turbojet;a turbine drives air to the burner
rockweed;coarse brown seaweed growing on rocks exposed at low tide
pharaoh s chicken;small mostly white vulture of africa and southern eurasia
viola pedata;common violet of the eastern united states with large pale blue or purple flowers resembling pansies
mergus merganser;common merganser of europe and north america
shadfly;slender insect with delicate membranous wings having an aquatic larval stage and terrestrial adult stage usually lasting less than two days
limnodromus griseus;a dowitcher with a gray back
bletia;any of various orchids of the genus bletia having pseudo-bulbs and erect leafless racemes of large purple or pink flowers
retrovirus;any of a group of viruses that contain two single-strand linear rna molecules per virion and reverse transcriptase (rna to dna)
hydrophyllum virginianum;showy perennial herb with white flowers. leaves sometimes used as edible greens in southeastern united states
orthopristis chrysopterus;found from long island southward
pilewort;perennial herb native to europe but naturalized elsewhere having heart-shaped leaves and yellow flowers resembling buttercups. its tuberous roots have been used as a poultice to relieve piles
tiercel;male hawk esp. male peregrine or gyrfalcon
beefsteak fungus;a popular edible fungus with a cap the color of liver or raw meat. abundant in southeastern united states
butcherbird;shrikes that impale their prey on thorns
ononis spinosa;eurasian plant having loose racemes of pink or purple flowers and spiny stems and tough roots
cattail;tall erect herbs with sword-shaped leaves. cosmopolitan in fresh and salt marshes
snow leopard;large feline of upland central asia having long thick whitish fur
bromus japonicus;grass of mediterranean and temperate asia
quercitron oak;medium to large deciduous timber tree of the eastern united states and southeastern canada having dark outer bark and yellow inner bark used for tanning. broad 5-lobed leaves are bristle-tipped
dacridium laxifolius;low-growning to prostrate shrub with slender trailing branches. new zealand
screw augur;an orchid of the genus spiranthes having tall erect densely flowered spiraling clusters of creamy white vanilla-scented flowers. widely distributed especially in low damp places of eastern and central north america
quercus agrifolia;highly variable often shrubby evergreen oak of coastal zone of western north america having small thick usually spiny-toothed dark-green leaves
pellicularia filamentosa;fungus causing a disease in potatoes characterized by black scurfy spots on the tubers
desert selaginella;prostrate spikemoss. california
blackwood;any of several hardwood trees yielding very dark-colored wood
snowy orchid;slender fringed orchid of eastern north america having white flowers
mademoiselle;small silvery drumfish often mistaken for white perch. found along coasts of united states from new york to mexico
fly poison;all parts of plant are highly toxic. bulb pounded and used as a fly poison. sometimes placed in subfamily melanthiaceae
lobelia inflata;north american wild lobelia having small blue flowers and inflated capsules formerly used as an antispasmodic
tympanuchus cupido;the most common variety of prairie chicken
adelgid;any of various insects that feed and form galls on conifers
atherinopsis californiensis;large silversides of pacific coast of north america
chicken louse;parasitic on poultry
armillaria zelleri;a large fungus with viscid cap that dries and turns brown with age. gills are off-white
nabalus alba;herb of northeastern north america having drooping clusters of yellowish-white flowers. sometimes placed in genus prenanthes
jacob s ladder;pinnate-leaved european perennial having bright blue or white flowers
swamp oak;large flaky-barked deciduous oak of the eastern united states with leaves having fewer lobes than other white oaks. yields heavy strong wood used in construction. thrives in wet soil
acipenser huso;valuable source of caviar and isinglass. found in black and caspian seas
tree swallow;bluish-green-and-white north american swallow. nests in tree cavities
tremella lutescens;a yellow jelly fungus
vaccinium uliginosum alpinum;an evergreen shrub with leathery leaves
racehorse;a horse bred for racing
rocky mountain pinon;small compact 2-needled pinon of southwestern united states. important as a nut pine
flowering almond;deciduous chinese shrub or small tree with often trilobed leaves grown for its pink-white flowers
whitefish;silvery herring-like freshwater food fish of cold lakes of the northern hemisphere
seafowl;a bird that frequents coastal waters and the open ocean: gulls. pelicans. gannets. cormorants. albatrosses. petrels. etc.
acherontia atropos;european hawkmoth with markings on the back resembling a human skull
genista anglica;prickly yellow-flowered shrub of the moors of new england and europe
umbrella plant;late-blooming perennial plant of shale barrens of virginia having flowers in flat-topped clusters
diplotaxis tenuifolia;yellow-flowered european plant that grows on old walls and in waste places. an adventive weed in north america
spanish elm;tropical american timber tree
ranunculus lingua;semi-aquatic european crowfoot with spear-shaped leaves
camellia japonica;greenhouse shrub with glossy green leaves and showy fragrant roselike flowers. cultivated in many varieties
mandrillus sphinx;baboon of west africa with red and blue muzzle and hindquarters
saussurea lappa;annual herb of the eastern himalayas (kashmir) having purple florets and a fragrant root that yields a volatile oil used in perfumery and for preserving furs
screw tree;a tree or shrub of the genus helicteres
wild sweet potato vine;tropical american prostrate or climbing herbaceous perennial having an enormous starchy root. sometimes held to be source of the sweet potato
aster cordifolius;perennial wood aster of eastern north america
palomino;a horse of light tan or golden color with cream or white mane and tail
farm machine;a machine used in farming
manul;small wildcat of the mountains of siberia tibet and mongolia
foxglove;any of several plants of the genus digitalis
poinciana regia;showy tropical tree or shrub native to madagascar. widely planted in tropical regions for its immense racemes of scarlet and orange flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
star begonia;rhizomatous begonia having leaves with pointed lobes suggestive of stars and pink flowers
new world oriole;american songbird. male is black and orange or yellow
syringa persica;small densely branching asiatic shrub having lanceolate leaves and panicles of fragrant lilac flowers
hard beech;tall new zealand tree yielding very hard wood
encyclia venosa;mexican epiphytic orchid having pale green or yellow-green flowers with white purple-veined lip
crawfish;large edible marine crustacean having a spiny carapace but lacking the large pincers of true lobsters
sesame;east indian annual erect herb. source of sesame seed or benniseed and sesame oil
nephelium mutabile;east indian fruit tree bearing fruit similar to but sweeter than that of the rambutan
oregon maple;maple of western north america having large 5-lobed leaves orange in autumn
hazel tree;australian tree grown especially for ornament and its fine-grained wood and bearing edible nuts
piculet;small woodpeckers of south america and africa and east indies having soft rounded tail feathers
deodar cedar;tall east indian cedar having spreading branches with nodding tips. highly valued for its appearance as well as its timber
fly orchid;european orchid whose flowers resemble flies
mezereon;small european deciduous shrub with fragrant lilac-colored flowers followed by red berries on highly toxic twigs
wild snapdragon;common european perennial having showy yellow and orange flowers. a naturalized weed in north america
animal virus;an animal pathogen that is a virus
broomweed;annual of southwestern united states having rigid woody branches with sticky foliage and yellow flowers
common rose mallow;showy shrub of salt marshes of the eastern united states having large rose-colored flowers
beagle;a small short-legged smooth-coated breed of hound
scotch gale;bog shrub of north temperate zone having bitter-tasting fragrant leaves
white lily;lily of eastern mediterranean and the balkans with broad funnel-shaped white flowers
elephant;five-toed pachyderm
yucca aloifolia;stiff short-trunked yucca of southern united states and tropical america with rigid spine-tipped leaves and clusters of white flowers
emperor penguin;the largest penguin. an antarctic penguin
heliothis zia;larva of a noctuid moth. highly destructive to esp. corn and cotton and tomato crops
helminthostachys zeylanica;australasian fern with clusters of sporangia on stems of fertile fronds
woodsia glabella;rock-inhabiting fern of arctic and subarctic europe to eastern asia
nautilus;cephalopod mollusk of warm seas whose females have delicate papery spiral shells
prunus glandulosa;small chinese shrub with smooth unfurrowed dark red fruit grown especially for its red or pink or white flowers
cabbage bark;tree with shaggy unpleasant-smelling toxic bark and yielding strong durable wood. bark and seeds used as a purgative and vermifuge and narcotic
wood sage;european germander with one-sided racemes of yellow flowers. naturalized in north america
virginia serpentary;birthwort of the eastern united states woodlands
scarlet haw;common shrub or small tree of the eastern united states having few thorns and white flowers in corymbs followed by bright orange-red berries
cebuella pygmaea;the smallest monkey. of tropical forests of the amazon
psyllid;small active cicada-like insect with hind legs adapted for leaping. feeds on plant juices
tomatillo;mexican annual naturalized in eastern north america having yellow to purple edible fruit resembling small tomatoes
marsh hen;north american coot
wyethia amplexicaulis;balsamic-resinous herb with clumps of lanceolate leaves and stout leafy stems ending in large deep yellow flowers on long stalks. northwestern united states
zooplankton;animal constituent of plankton. mainly small crustaceans and fish larvae
purple gallinule;gallinules with showy purplish plumage
corn mint;european mint naturalized in united states
chilean firebush;grown for outstanding display of brilliant usually scarlet-crimson flowers. andes
family aegypiidae;in some classifications considered the family comprising the old world vultures which are more often included in the family accipitridae
bandicoot rat;burrowing scaly-tailed rat of india and ceylon
scouring rush;evergreen erect horsetail with rough-edged stems. formerly used for scouring utensils
cat bear;reddish-brown old world raccoon-like carnivore. in some classifications considered unrelated to the giant pandas
antbird;any of various dull-colored south american birds that feeding on ants some following army ant swarms
cyclopterus lumpus;clumsy soft thick-bodied north atlantic fish with pelvic fins fused into a sucker. edible roe used for caviar
mentzelia livicaulis;biennial of southwestern united states having lustrous-white stems and toothed leaves grown for its large pale yellow flowers that open in early morning
white mullein;densely hairy eurasian herb with racemose white flowers. naturalized in north america
oleandra mollis;tropical fern having leathery oleanderlike fronds. asia to polynesia
egyptian cobra;cobra used by the pharaohs as a symbol of their power over life and death
witches;a yellow jelly fungus
autumn crocus;bulbous autumn-flowering herb with white, purple or lavender-and-white flowers. native to western and central europe
ear shell;any of various large edible marine gastropods of the genus heliotis having an ear-shaped shell with pearly interior
alexandria senna;erect shrub having racemes of tawny yellow flowers. the dried leaves are used medicinally as a cathartic. sometimes placed in genus cassia
artemisia californica;low ashy-gray california shrub
sweet scented geranium;any of several southern african geraniums having fragrant 3- to 5-lobed leaves and pink flowers
viburnum dentatum;deciduous shrub of eastern north america having blue-black berries and tough pliant wood formerly used to make arrows
rattler;pit viper with horny segments at the end of the tail that rattle when shaken
lady tulip;eurasian tulip with small flowers blotched at the base
seriola grandis;large game fish of australia and new zealand
eelblenny;eellike fishes found in subarctic coastal waters
bean plant;any of various leguminous plants grown for their edible seeds and pods
purple martin;large north american martin of which the male is blue-black
prunus angustifolia;small native american shrubby tree bearing small edible yellow to reddish fruit
daucus carota sativa;perennial plant widely cultivated as an annual in many varieties for its long conical deep-orange edible roots. temperate and tropical regions
water violet;featherfoil of europe and western asia having submerged and floating leaves and violet flowers
alnus rubra;large tree of pacific coast of north america having hard red wood much used for furniture
capsella bursa pastoris;white-flowered annual european herb bearing triangular notched pods. nearly cosmopolitan as an introduced weed
linaria vulgaris;common european perennial having showy yellow and orange flowers. a naturalized weed in north america
button fern;jamaican fern having round buttonlike bulbils
wood pigeon;eurasian pigeon with white patches on wings and neck
michaelmas daisy;north american perennial herb having small autumn-blooming purple or pink or white flowers. widely naturalized in europe
ribbonfish;thin deep-water tropical fish 20 to 30 feet long having a red dorsal fin
pinus albicaulis;small pine of western north america. having smooth gray-white bark and soft brittle wood. similar to limber pine
chrysolepis sempervirens;evergreen shrub similar to golden chinkapin. mountains of california
sciarid;minute blackish gregarious flies destructive to mushrooms and seedlings
parkinsonia florida;densely branched spiny tree of southwestern united states having showy yellow flowers and blue-green bark. sometimes placed in genus cercidium
fringed gentian;any of various herbs of the genus gentianopsis having the margins of the corolla lobes fringed. sometimes included in genus gentiana
pterocarya fraxinifolia;medium-sized caucasian much-branched tree distinguished from other walnut trees by its winged fruit
red flowered silky oak;tall shrub with cylindrical racemes of red flowers and pinnatifid leaves silky-gray beneath. eastern australia
thermopsis macrophylla;western united states bushy herb having yellow pealike flowers
mesocricetus auratus;small light-colored hamster often kept as a pet
smallmouth bass;a variety of black bass. the angle of the jaw falls below the eye
mandioca;cassava with long tuberous edible roots and soft brittle stems. used especially to make cassiri (an intoxicating drink) and tapioca
eurasian otter;otter found in europe and asia
bulbul;nightingale spoken of in persian poetry
emilia coccinea;tropical african annual having scarlet tassel-shaped flower heads. sometimes placed in genus cacalia
sire;male parent of an animal especially a domestic animal such as a horse
entoloma aprile;an agaric with a dark brown conical cap. fruits in early spring
lunda cirrhata;n pacific puffin having a large yellow plume over each eye
harpulla;fast-growing tree of india and east indies yielding a wood used especially for building
violet;any of numerous low-growing small-flowered violas
riveter;a machine for driving rivets
herpes simplex;a herpes virus that can cause genital herpes
achras zapota;large tropical american evergreen yielding chicle gum and edible fruit. sometimes placed in genus achras
machine;"any mechanical or electrical device that transmits or modifies energy to perform or assist in the performance of human tasks"
dasyprocta aguti;agile long-legged rabbit-sized rodent of central and south america and west indies. valued as food
polymorph;an organism that can assume more than one adult form as in the castes of ants or termites
pipistrellus subflavus;one of the smallest bats of eastern north america
dioscorea trifida;tropical american yam with small yellow-skinned edible tubers
black hickory;smooth-barked north american hickory with 7 to 9 leaflets bearing a hard-shelled edible nut
euonymus fortunei radicans;broad and bushy asiatic twining shrub with pinkish fruit. many subspecies or varieties
field maple;shrubby eurasian maple often used as a hedge
madagascar jasmine;twining woody vine of madagascar having thick dark waxy evergreen leaves and clusters of large fragrant waxy white flowers along the stems. widely cultivated in warm regions
ligustrum amurense;eastern asian shrub cultivated especially for its persistent foliage
animate being;a living organism characterized by voluntary movement
common european ash;tall ash of europe to the caucasus having leaves shiny dark-green above and pale downy beneath
blonde lilian;north american dogtooth having solitary white flowers with yellow centers and blue- or pink-tinted exteriors
old maid flower;any of various plants of the genus zinnia cultivated for their variously and brightly colored flower heads
gallina;small asiatic wild bird. believed to be ancestral to domestic fowl
summer duck;showy north american duck that nests in hollow trees
goldilocks;early-flowering perennial of southern and southeastern europe with flower heads resembling those of goldenrod
balaena mysticetus;large-mouthed arctic whale
catjang pea;tropical woody herb with showy yellow flowers and flat pods. much cultivated in the tropics
ribbon fern;epiphytic fern found in lowland forests of tropical america
booted armillaria;fungus with a brown cap and white gills and a membranous ring halfway up the stalk
golden chinkapin;small ornamental evergreen tree of pacific coast whose glossy yellow-green leaves are yellow beneath. bears edible nuts
teiid;tropical new world lizard with a long tail and large rectangular scales on the belly and a long tail
pussy paw;pink clusters of densely packed flowers on prostrate stems resemble upturned pads of cats' feet. grow in coniferous forests of western north america. sometimes placed in genus calyptridium
dendroaspis augusticeps;southern african mamba dreaded because of its quickness and readiness to bite
strawberry blite;european annual with clusters of greenish flowers followed by red pulpy berrylike fruit. naturalized north america
glutton;wolverine of northern eurasia
horse fly;large swift fly the female of which sucks blood of various animals
hexagrammos decagrammus;common food and sport fish of western coast of north america
cocklebur;burdock having heart-shaped leaves found in open woodland, hedgerows and rough grassland of europe (except extreme n) and asia minor. sometimes cultivated for medicinal and culinary use
robinia viscosa;small rough-barked locust of southeastern united states having racemes of pink flowers and glutinous branches and seeds
indian mongoose;keen-sighted viverrine of southern asia about the size of a ferret. often domesticated
garden loosestrife;frequently considered a weed. europe and asia
thrush;songbirds characteristically having brownish upper plumage with a spotted breast
resplendent quetzel;very rare central american bird. the national bird of guatemala
goat s foot;short-stemmed south african plant with bluish flowers
bearded iris;any of numerous wild or cultivated irises with hairlike structures on the falls (the drooping sepals)
northern bog lemming;of wet alpine and subalpine meadows of canada and alaska
cultivated celery;widely cultivated herb with aromatic leaf stalks that are eaten raw or cooked
flower cup fern;slender fern of northern north america with shining chestnut-colored stipes and bipinnate fronds with usually distinct marginal sori
mandarin duck;showy crested asiatic duck. often domesticated
resurrection plant;densely tufted fern ally of southwestern united states to peru. curls up in a tight ball when dry and expands and grows under moist conditions
poisonous plant;a plant that when touched or ingested in sufficient quantity can be harmful or fatal to an organism
indian mustard;asiatic mustard used as a potherb
white headed stilt;stilt of the southwest pacific including australia and new zealand having mostly white plumage but with black wings and nape of neck
retama raetam;desert shrub of syria and arabia having small white flowers. constitutes the juniper of the old testament. sometimes placed in genus genista
blue channel catfish;a large catfish of the mississippi valley
round clam;an edible american clam
composite plant;considered the most highly evolved dicotyledonous plants, characterized by florets arranged in dense heads that resemble single flowers
raja radiata;cold-water bottom fish with spines on the back. to 40 inches
eider duck;duck of the northern hemisphere much valued for the fine soft down of the females
sand rat;southern european gerbil
wormfish;poorly known family of small tropical shallow-water fishes related to gobies
armored searobin;sea robins having bony scutes on the body and barbels on the chin. found mostly on the continental slope
commensal;either of two different animal or plant species living in close association but not interdependent
rheumatism weed;canadian dogbane yielding a tough fiber used as cordage by native americans. used in folk medicine for pain or inflammation in joints
pacesetter;a horse used to set the pace in racing
true bug;any of various insects of the order hemiptera and esp. of the suborder heteroptera
artemisia ludoviciana;perennial cottony-white herb of southwestern united states
hawkbit;any of various common wildflowers of the genus leontodon. of temperate eurasia to mediterranean regions
corydalis;a plant of the genus corydalis with beautiful compound foliage and spurred tubular flowers
salsola kali tenuifolia;prickly bushy eurasian plant. a troublesome weed in central and western united states
buteo buteo;the common european short-winged hawk
butterfly weed;erect perennial of eastern and southern united states having showy orange flowers
polypody;any of numerous ferns of the genus polypodium
oleander;an ornamental but poisonous flowering shrub having narrow evergreen leaves and clusters of fragrant white to pink or red flowers: native to east indies but widely cultivated in warm regions
clegg;large swift fly the female of which sucks blood of various animals
ragwort;widespread european weed having yellow daisylike flowers. sometimes an obnoxious weed and toxic to cattle if consumed in quantity
holcus mollis;european perennial grass with soft velvety foliage
kennedia prostrata;hairy trailing or prostrate western australian vine with bright scarlet-pink flowers
cirio;candlewood of mexico and southwestern california having tall columnar stems and bearing honey-scented creamy yellow flowers
wax myrtle;any shrub or small tree of the genus myrica with aromatic foliage and small wax-coated berries
argus;large brilliantly patterned east indian pheasant
italian parsley;a variety of parsley having flat leaves
sheep gadfly;larvae are parasitic on sheep
arundo richardii;tall grass of new zealand grown for plumelike flower heads
mule deer;long-eared deer of western north america with two-pronged antlers
sand viper;highly venomous viper of north africa and southwest asia having a horny spine above each eye
wood anemone;european anemone with solitary white flowers common in deciduous woodlands
lichee;chinese tree cultivated especially in philippines and india for its edible fruit. sometimes placed in genus nephelium
texas snowbell;styrax of southwestern united states. a threatened species
grivet;white and olive green east african monkey with long white tufts of hair beside the face
snipe;old or new world straight-billed game bird of the sandpiper family. of marshy areas. similar to the woodcocks
cultivated crab apple;any of numerous varieties of crab apples cultivated for their small acid usually bright-red fruit used for preserving or as ornamentals for their blossoms
harebell;sometimes placed in genus scilla
gasterosteus aculeatus;of rivers and coastal regions
loon;large somewhat primitive fish-eating diving bird of the northern hemisphere having webbed feet placed far back. related to the grebes
goa bean vine;tuberous-rooted twining annual vine bearing clusters of purplish flowers and pods with four jagged wings. old world tropics
picea orientalis;evergreen tree of the caucasus and asia minor used as an ornamental having pendulous branchlets
box huckleberry;creeping evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having small shiny boxlike leaves and flavorless berries
litchi chinensis;chinese tree cultivated especially in philippines and india for its edible fruit. sometimes placed in genus nephelium
american redstart;flycatching warbler of eastern north america the male having bright orange on sides and wings and tail
herpes varicella zoster;a herpes virus that causes chickenpox and shingles
common european earwig;sometimes destructive to cultivated bulbs
turkey;large gallinaceous bird with fan-shaped tail. widely domesticated for food
pycnogonid;any of various small spider-like marine arthropods having small thin bodies and long slender legs
morchella conica;a morel whose pitted fertile body is attached to the stalk with little free skirt around it. the fertile body is gray when young and black in old age
alfalfa;important european leguminous forage plant with trifoliate leaves and blue-violet flowers grown widely as a pasture and hay crop
synchronous motor;speed of rotation is proportional to the frequency of the a.c. power
dog grass;european grass spreading rapidly by creeping rhizomes. naturalized in north america as a weed
wild liquorice;north american plant similar to true licorice and having a root with similar properties
louse;wingless insect with mouth parts adapted for biting. mostly parasitic on birds
festuca ovina;cultivated for sheep pasturage in upland regions or used as a lawn grass
geoffroea decorticans;thorny shrub or small tree common in central argentina having small orange or yellow flowers followed by edible berries
fumitory;delicate european herb with grayish leaves and spikes of purplish flowers. formerly used medicinally
phanerogam;plant that reproduces by means of seeds not spores
eutamius sibiricus;terrestrial siberian squirrel
dipper;small stocky diving bird without webbed feet. frequents fast-flowing streams and feeds along the bottom
chittamwood;deciduous tree of southeastern united states and mexico
clusia insignis;epiphytic clusia of british_guiana
wild potato;erect or spreading perennial of southwestern united states and mexico bearing small pale brown to cream potatolike tubers
soft scale;an insect active in all stages
aspidophoroides monopterygius;small very elongate sea poachers
desert willow;evergreen shrubby tree resembling a willow of dry regions of southwestern north america having showy purplish flowers and long seed pods
citellus leucurus;small ground squirrel of western united states
consumption weed;a shrub of salt marshes of eastern and south central north america and west indies. fruit is surrounded with white plumelike hairy tufts
milk cow;cattle that are reared for their milk
cebus capucinus;monkey of central and south america having a cowl of thick hair on the head
toadfish;bottom-dwelling fish having scaleless slimy skin and a broad thick head with a wide mouth
true seal;any of several seals lacking external ear flaps and having a stiff hairlike coat with hind limbs reduced to swimming flippers
striped skunk;most common and widespread north american skunk
phthorimaea operculella;grayish-brown moth whose larva is the potato tuberworm
acer japonicum;leaves deeply incised and bright red in autumn. japan
nymphalis antiopa;of temperate regions. having dark purple wings with yellow borders
sweet sultan;asian plant widely grown for its sweetly fragrant pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus centaurea
zantedeschia aethiopica;south african plant widely cultivated for its showy pure white spathe and yellow spadix
woodland star;california perennial herb cultivated for its racemose white flowers with widely spreading petals. sometimes placed in genus tellima
marattia salicina;large australasian evergreen fern with an edible rhizome sometimes used as a vegetable by indigenous people
platypoecilus maculatus;small stocky mexican fish. popular aquarium fish
andrena;a bee that is a a member of the genus andrena
spanish mackerel;a california food fish
marsh tea;bog shrub of northern and central europe and eastern siberia to korea and japan
sapindus drumondii;deciduous tree of southwestern united states having pulpy fruit containing saponin
cancer irroratus;crab of eastern coast of north america
shell ginger;cultivated for its shining oblong leaves and arching clusters of white flowers with shell-pink shading and crinkled yellow lip with variegated magenta stripes
cistothorus platensis;small american wren inhabiting wet sedgy meadows
tiger moth;medium-sized moth with long richly colored and intricately patterned wings. larvae are called woolly bears
field thistle;stout north american thistle with purplish-pink flower heads
artiodactyl;placental mammal having hooves with an even number of functional toes on each foot
baby rose;vigorously growing rose having clusters of numerous small flowers. used for hedges and as grafting stock
sticherus flabellatus;large australiasian fern with fanlike repeatedly forked fronds. sometimes placed in genus gleichenia
euphorbia hirsuta;much-branched hirsute weed native to northeastern north america
froghopper;a variety of spittlebug
pomolobus pseudoharengus;shad-like food fish that runs rivers to spawn. often salted or smoked. sometimes placed in genus pomolobus
cockateel;small gray australian parrot with a yellow crested head
soy;a source of oil. used for forage and soil improvement and as food
nutcracker;speckled birds that feed on nuts
european toad;common toad of europe
belted sandfish;found in warm shallow waters of western atlantic
grass snake;harmless european snake with a bright yellow collar. common in england
treadmill;a mill that is powered by men or animals walking on a circular belt or climbing steps
formica sanguinea;slave-making ant widely distributed over the northern hemisphere
natterjack;common brownish-yellow short-legged toad of western europe. runs rather than hops
water flaxseed;cosmopolitan except south america and new zealand and some oceanic islands
rhizoctinia;any fungus now or formerly belonging to the form genus rhizoctinia
maravilla;wildflower having vibrant deep pink tubular evening-blooming flowers. found in sandy and desert areas from southern california to southern colorado and into mexico
zamia;any of various cycads of the genus zamia. among the smallest and most verdant cycads
libocedrus plumosa;new zealand timber tree resembling the cypress
ursus arctos syriacus;yellowish-gray syrian brown bear
takeoff booster;the first stage of a multistage rocket
arachis hypogaea;widely cultivated american plant cultivated in tropical and warm regions. showy yellow flowers on stalks that bend over to the soil so that seed pods ripen underground
water crowfoot;plant of ponds and slow streams having submerged and floating leaves and white flowers. europe and north america
shining sumac;common nonpoisonous shrub of eastern north america with compound leaves and green paniculate flowers followed by red berries
licorice;deep-rooted coarse-textured plant native to the mediterranean region having blue flowers and pinnately compound leaves. widely cultivated in europe for its long thick sweet roots
anthemis nobilis;eurasian plant apple-scented foliage and white-rayed flowers and feathery leaves used medicinally. in some classification systems placed in genus anthemis
diangus gratianopolitanus;mat-forming perennial of central europe with large fragrant pink or red flowers
cnicus benedictus;annual of mediterranean to portugal having hairy stems and minutely spiny-toothed leaves and large heads of yellow flowers
stylophorum diphyllum;perennial here native to woodland of the eastern united states having yellow flowers
big sagebrush;aromatic shrub of arid regions of western north america having hoary leaves
syringa emodi;robust upright shrub of mountains of northern india having oblong-eliptic leaves and pale lilac or white malodorous flowers
red bird s eye;biennial european catchfly having red or pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus lychnis
anise tree;any of several evergreen shrubs and small trees of the genus illicium
purple emperor;large european butterfly the male of which has wings shaded with purple
rhododendron maxima;late-spring-blooming rhododendron of eastern north america having rosy to pink-purple flowers
senecio triangularis;perennial with sharply toothed triangular leaves on leafy stems bearing a cluster of yellow flower heads. moist places in mountains of western north america
java olives;large tree of old world tropics having foul-smelling orange-red blossoms followed by red pods enclosing oil-rich seeds sometimes used as food
juglans nigra;north american walnut tree with hard dark wood and edible nut
erythrina corallodendrum;deciduous shrub having racemes of deep scarlet-red flowers and black-spotted red seeds
old witch grass;north american grass with slender brushy panicles. often a weed on cultivated land
chicory;perennial old world herb having rayed flower heads with blue florets cultivated for its root and its heads of crisp edible leaves used in salads
senna marilandica;north american perennial herb. leaves are used medicinally. sometimes placed in genus cassia
kashmir goat;himalayan goat having a silky undercoat highly prized as cashmere wool
bristly locust;large shrub or small tree of the eastern united states having bristly stems and large clusters of pink flowers
climbing maidenhair fern;tropical fern widespread in old world. naturalized in jamaica and florida
ratibida tagetes;coneflower of central to southwestern united states
megapode;large-footed short-winged birds of australasia. build mounds of decaying vegetation to incubate eggs
white alder;shrub of eastern and southern coastal united states having beautiful racemes of spice-scented white flowers
green alder;north american shrub with light green leaves and winged nuts
zooid;one of the distinct individuals forming a colonial animal such as a bryozoan or hydrozoan
ciliophoran;a protozoan with a microscopic appendage extending from the surface of the cell
dwarf daisy;tiny gray woolly tufted annual with small golden-eyllow flower heads. southeastern california to northwestern arizona and southwestern utah. sometimes placed in genus eriophyllum
common mallow;annual old world plant with clusters of pink or white flowers. naturalized in united states
black bear;black bear of central and eastern asia
false pimpernel;weedy plant having short dry chafflike leaves
caryota urens;fishtail palm of india to malay peninsula. sap yields a brown sugar (jaggery) and trunk pith yields sago
grass snake;any of numerous nonvenomous longitudinally-striped viviparous north and central american snakes
halicoeres radiatus;bluish and bronze wrasse. found from florida keys to brazil
parasitaxus ustus;rare and endangered monoecious parasitic conifer of new caledonia. parasitic on falcatifolium taxoides
night heron;nocturnal or crepuscular herons
hog plum;tropical american tree having edible yellow fruit
spice tree;pacific coast tree having aromatic foliage and small umbellate flowers followed by olivelike fruit. yields a hard tough wood
japanese umbrella pine;tall evergreen having a symmetrical spreading crown and needles growing in umbrellalike whorls at ends of twigs
allium tricoccum;north american perennial having a slender bulb and whitish flowers
tineid moth;small yellowish moths whose larvae feed on wool or fur
carduus crispus;european biennial introduced in north america having flower heads in crowded clusters at ends of spiny-winged branches
dung beetle;any of numerous beetles that roll balls of dung on which they feed and in which they lay eggs
toothwort;north american herb with pungent scaly or toothed roots
erigeron acer;widespread weed with pale purple-blue flowers
meadow clary;tall perrenial old world salvia with violet-blue flowers. found in open grasslands
common scoter;a variety of scoter
lepidothamnus fonkii;about the hardiest podocarpaceae species. prostrate spreading shrub similar to mountain rimu. mountains of southern chile
nyssa sylvatica;columnar tree of eastern north america having horizontal limbs and small leaves that emerge late in spring and have brilliant color in early fall
gee gee;a word for horse used by children or in adult slang
rhode island red;american breed of heavy-bodied brownish-red general-purpose chicken
codlins and cream;plant of europe and asia having purplish-red flowers and hairy stems and leaves. introduced into north america
sweet alyssum;perennial european plant having clusters of small fragrant usually white flowers. widely grown in gardens
pomegranate tree;shrub or small tree native to southwestern asia having large red many-seeded fruit
allium neopolitanum;european onion with white flowers
molva molva;elongated marine food fish of greenland and northern europe. often salted and dried
chrysanthemum lacustre;perennial of portugal similar to the oxeye daisy
stag;male red deer
blennioid;elongated mostly scaleless marine fishes with large pectoral fins and reduced pelvic fins
barbados pride;east indian tree with racemes of yellow-white flowers. cultivated as an ornamental
china rose;large showy asiatic shrub or small tree having large single or double red to deep-red flowers
sabbatia;any of various plants of the genus sabbatia having usually pink cymose flowers. occur from acid bogs to brackish marshes
banana quit;any of several honeycreepers
flowering crab;small tree or shrub of southeastern united states. cultivated as an ornamental for its rose-colored blossoms
billion dollar grass;coarse annual grass cultivated in japan and southeastern asia for its edible seeds and for forage. important wildlife food in united states
black mustard;widespread eurasian annual plant cultivated for its pungent seeds. a principal source of table mustard
needle furze;prickly yellow-flowered shrub of the moors of new england and europe
cassia javonica;deciduous ornamental hybrid of southeastern asia and hawaii having racemes of flowers ranging in color from cream to orange and red
winter currant;a flowering shrub
redstem storksbill;european weed naturalized in southwestern united states and mexico having reddish decumbent stems with small fernlike leaves and small deep reddish-lavender flowers followed by slender pinlike fruits that stick straight up. often grown for forage
dammar pine;any of various trees of the genus agathis. yield dammar resin
cub;the young of certain carnivorous mammals such as the bear or wolf or lion
decapod crustacean;crustaceans characteristically having five pairs of locomotor appendages each joined to a segment of the thorax
ladybeetle;small round bright-colored and spotted beetle that usually feeds on aphids and other insect pests
red algae;marine algae in which the chlorophyll is masked by a red or purplish pigment. source of agar and carrageenan
black weevil;brown weevil that infests stored grain esp. rice
canoe birch;small american birch with peeling white bark often worked into e.g. baskets or toy canoes
moorbird;reddish-brown grouse of upland moors of great britain
manduca quinquemaculata;large green white-striped hawkmoth larva that feeds on tomato and potato plants. similar to tobacco hornworm
housefly;common fly that frequents human habitations and spreads many diseases
piranga olivacea;the male is bright red with black wings and tail
solanum melanocerasum;improved garden variety of black nightshade having small edible orange or black berries
phaseolus angularis;bushy annual widely grown in china and japan for the flour made from its seeds
red cole;coarse eurasian plant cultivated for its thick white pungent root
ambystoma mexicanum;larval salamander of mountain lakes of mexico that usually lives without metamorphosing
palaemon australis;large (a foot or more) edible freshwater prawn common in australian rivers
cymling;squash plant having flattened round fruit with a scalloped edge. usually greenish white
vaccinium ovatum;stiff bushy evergreen shrub of western north america having sour black berries and glossy green foliage used in floral arrangements
thyrsopteris elegans;a terrestrial tree fern of south america
pinche;south american tamarin with a tufted head
cyamopsis tetragonolobus;drought-tolerant herb grown for forage and for its seed which yield a gum used as a thickening agent or sizing material
human being;any living or extinct member of the family hominidae
rhus vernix;smooth american swamp shrub with pinnate leaves and greenish flowers followed by greenish white berries. yields an irritating oil
cocksfoot;widely grown stout old world hay and pasture grass
strap fern;fern with long narrow strap-shaped leaves
ruby crowned kinglet;american kinglet with a notable song and in the male a red crown patch
moon daisy;tall leafy-stemmed eurasian perennial with white flowers. widely naturalized. often placed in genus chrysanthemum
citrus limonia;hybrid between mandarin orange and lemon having very acid fruit with orange peel
prunus virginiana;a common wild cherry of eastern north america having small bitter black berries favored by birds
pheasant coucal;australian bird with a tail like a pheasant
rail;any of numerous widely distributed small wading birds of the family rallidae having short wings and very long toes for running on soft mud
nigella;any plant of the genus nigella
pellitory;herb that grows in crevices having long narrow leaves and small pink apetalous flowers
fratercula corniculata;n pacific puffin
hunnemania fumariifolia;native of mexican highlands grown for its glossy clear yellow flowers and blue-gray finely dissected foliage
marasmius oreades;mushroom that grows in a fairy ring
hawfinch;a common large finch of eurasia
ruscus aculeatus;shrub with stiff-pointed flattened stems resembling leaves (cladophylls). used for making brooms
sea raven;large sculpin of western atlantic. inflates itself when caught
eucalyptus calophylla;very large red gum tree
antirrhinum filipes;southwestern united states plant with yellow flowers on stems that twist and twine through other vegetation
white fritillary;california herb with white conic or bell-shaped flowers usually green-tinged
snow gum;small to medium-sized tree of australia and tasmania having smooth white to light-grey bark shedding in patches or strips
regnellidium diphyllum;small latex-containing aquatic fern of southern brazil
desktop computer;a computer small enough to fit conveniently in an individual workspace
corallorhiza maculata;common coral root having yellowish- or reddish- or purplish-brown leafless stems bearing loose racemes of similarly colored flowers with white purple-spotted lips. guatemala to canada
imou pine;tall new zealand timber tree
limicoline bird;any of numerous wading birds that frequent mostly seashores and estuaries
dryopteris oreades;a fern of the genus dryopteris
northern oriole;a kind of new world oriole
sandwort;low-growing chiefly perennial plants usually with small white flowers suitable for e.g. rock gardens
sulla;perennial of southern europe cultivated for forage and for its nectar-rich pink flowers that make it an important honey crop
ephemeropteran;short-lived insect
cape gooseberry;annual of tropical south america having edible purple fruits
grass poly;annual with small solitary pink flowers. originally of europe but widely naturalized in moist areas
martes americana;valued for its fur
cypress sedge;tufted sedge of temperate regions. nearly cosmopolitan
dioscorea alata;grown in australasia and polynesia for its large root with fine edible white flesh
carex pseudocyperus;tufted sedge of temperate regions. nearly cosmopolitan
ear fungus;widely distributed edible fungus shaped like a human ear and growing on decaying wood
cat;feline mammal usually having thick soft fur and being unable to roar. domestic cats. wildcats
perennial ragweed;coarse perennial ragweed with creeping roots of dry barren lands of southwestern united states and mexico
waterbird;freshwater aquatic bird
sheldrake;large crested fish-eating diving duck having a slender hooked bill with serrated edges
microbe;a minute life form (especially a disease-causing bacterium). the term is not in technical use
great ape;any of the large anthropoid apes of the family pongidae
devil s cigar;a common name for a variety of sarcosomataceae
slide rule;a handheld instrument used for rapid calculations. have been replaced by pocket calculators
freak;a person or animal that is markedly unusual or deformed
cucurbita moschata;any of various plants bearing hard-rinded squash having elongated recurved necks
salmonella typhi;a form of salmonella that causes typhoid fever
corn spurry;small european weed with whorled leaves and white flowers
polyp;one of two forms that coelenterates take e.g. a hydra or coral: usually sedentary and has a hollow cylindrical body usually with a ring of tentacles around the mouth
coat of mail shell;primitive elongated bilaterally symmetrical marine mollusk having a mantle covered with eight calcareous plates
gray hen;female black grouse
naiad;submerged aquatic plant having narrow leaves and small flowers. of fresh or brackish water
common plum;any of various widely distributed plums grown in the cooler temperate areas
hedge violet;common european violet that grows in woods and hedgerows
orang;large long-armed ape of borneo and sumatra having arboreal habits
gliding bacteria;bacteria that form colonies in self-produced slime. inhabit moist soils or decaying plant matter or animal waste
razorbill;black-and-white north atlantic auk having a compressed sharp-edged bill
pansy;large-flowered garden plant derived chiefly from the wild pansy of europe and having velvety petals of various colors
cnemidophorus tesselatus;markings are darker and more marked than in western whiptail. from southeastern colorado to eastern chihuahua
bugle;any of various low-growing annual or perennial evergreen herbs native to eurasia. used for ground cover
northern harrier;common harrier of north america and europe. nests in marshes and open land
sparrow hawk;small north american falcon
polynesian tattler;tattler of pacific coastal regions
creeping lily;any plant of the genus gloriosa of tropical africa and asia. a perennial herb climbing by means of tendrils at leaf tips having showy yellow to red or purple flowers. all parts are poisonous
metatherian;primitive pouched mammals found mainly in australia and the americas
quercus robur;medium to large deciduous european oak having smooth leaves with rounded lobes. yields hard strong light-colored wood
ticker;automatically prints stock quotations on a paper tape
mariposa;any of several plants of the genus calochortus having tulip-shaped flowers with 3 sepals and 3 petals. southwestern united states and mexico
sedum;any of various plants of the genus sedum
coon bear;large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of china and tibet. in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family ailuropodidae
field marigold;european herb with bright yellow flowers. a common weed in grain fields
carassius auratus;small golden or orange-red freshwater fishes of eurasia used as pond or aquarium fishes
green douglas fir;lofty douglas fir of northwestern north america having short needles and egg-shaped cones
broad leaved bottletree;north australian tree having white flowers and broad leaves
giant hyssop;any of a number of aromatic plants of the genus agastache
old world mistletoe;old world parasitic shrub having branching greenish stems with leathery leaves and waxy white glutinous berries. the traditional mistletoe of christmas
touch me not;north american annual plant with usually yellow or orange flowers. grows chiefly on wet rather acid soil
sand badger;se asian badger with a snout like a pig
field mustard;weedy eurasian plant often a pest in grain fields
lawyer cane;tall scrambling spiny palm of northeastern queensland australia
photinia arbutifolia;ornamental evergreen treelike shrub of united states pacific coast having large white flowers and red berrylike fruits. often placed in genus photinia
steamer clam;an edible clam with thin oval-shaped shell found in coastal regions of the united states and europe
clumber;a thickset spaniel with longish silky hair
blackcap;small black-headed european gull
wild flower;wild or uncultivated flowering plant
satinleaf;tropical american timber tree with dark hard heavy wood and small plumlike purple fruit
scincid lizard;alert agile lizard with reduced limbs and an elongated body covered with shiny scales. more dependent on moisture than most lizards. found in tropical regions worldwide
franking machine;a machine that automatically stamps letters or packages passing through it and computes the total charge
alnus veridis;shrub of mountainous areas of europe
wild strawberry;europe
aster arenosus;common north american perennial with heathlike foliage and small white flower heads
cheatgrass;annual or winter annual grass with softly hairy leaves of the mediterranean
pumpkin vine;a coarse vine widely cultivated for its non-keeping large pulpy round orange fruit with firm orange skin and numerous seeds. subspecies of cucurbita pepo include the summer squashes and a few autumn squashes
spanish tea;rank-smelling tropical american pigweed
ironwood tree;medium-sized hop hornbeam of eastern north america
agapanthus africanus;african plant with bright green evergreen leaves and umbels of many usually deep violet-blue flowers
lead tree;low scrubby tree of tropical and subtropical north america having white mimosalike flowers tinged with yellow and long flattened pods
southwestern white pine;medium-size pine of northwestern mexico. bark is dark brown and furrowed when mature
meadowgrass;any of various grasses that thrive in the presence of abundant moisture
brassica oleracea gongylodes;plant cultivated for its enlarged fleshy turnip-shaped edible stem
mint;any north temperate plant of the genus mentha with aromatic leaves and small mauve flowers
fibrous rooted begonia;any of numerous begonias having fibrous rather than tuberous or rhizomatous roots
oenothera biennis;a coarse biennial of eastern north america with yellow flowers that open in the evening. naturalized in europe
pinus serotina;large 3-needled pine of sandy swamps of southeastern united states. needles longer than those of the northern pitch pine
picea glauca;medium-sized spruce of northeastern north america having short blue-green leaves and slender cones
geum macrophyllum;hairy yellow-flowered plant of eastern asia and north america
sea wolf;predatory black-and-white toothed whale with large dorsal fin. common in cold seas
pholiota squarrosa adiposa;a gilled fungus having yellow slimy caps with conspicuous tawny scales on the caps and stalks
mulloidichthys martinicus;schooling goatfish. grayish with yellow stripe
incienso;fragrant rounded shrub of southwestern united states and adjacent mexico having brittle stems and small crowded blue-green leaves and yellow flowers. produces a resin used in incense and varnish and in folk medicine
marsilea drummondii;australian clover fern
cottontail;common small rabbit of north america having grayish or brownish fur and a tail with a white underside. a host for ixodes pacificus and ixodes scapularis (lyme disease ticks)
plumed thistle;any of numerous biennial to perennial herbs with handsome purple or yellow or occasionally white flower heads
winter melon;any of a variety of muskmelon vines having fruit with a smooth white rind and white or greenish flesh that does not have a musky smell
moth plant;any of various orchids of the genus phalaenopsis having often drooping glossy broad obovate or oval leaves usually dark green flushed purple or mottled gray and silver
papaver nudicaule;subarctic perennial poppy of both hemispheres having fragrant white or yellow to orange or peach flowers
rupicapra rupicapra;hoofed mammal of mountains of eurasia having upright horns with backward-hooked tips
grampus;slaty-gray blunt-nosed dolphin common in northern seas
common unicorn plant;annual of southern united states to mexico having large whitish or yellowish flowers mottled with purple and a long curving beak
laurel oak;small deciduous tree of eastern and central united states having shining laurel-like leaves. wood used in western states for shingles
cardiospermum halicacabum;woody perennial climbing plant with large ornamental seed pods that resemble balloons. tropical india and africa and america
mollie;popular aquarium fish
gelechiid;small slender-winged moths whose larvae are agricultural pests
sanvitalia procumbens;low-branching leafy annual with zinnialike flower heads. southwestern united states and mexico to guatemala
american wormseed;rank-smelling tropical american pigweed
golden polypody;tropical american fern with brown scaly rhizomes cultivated for its large deeply lobed deep bluish-green fronds. sometimes placed in genus polypodium
riding horse;a lightweight horse kept for riding only
musk thistle;eurasian perennial naturalized in eastern north america having very spiny white cottony foliage and nodding musky crimson flower heads. valuable source of nectar
cinnamon vine;hardy chinese vine naturalized in united states and cultivated as an ornamental climber for its glossy heart-shaped cinnamon-scented leaves and in the tropics for its edible tubers
common kingsnake;widespread in united states except northern regions. black or brown with yellow bands
blackback flounder;important american food fish in the winter
davallia mariesii;feathery fern of tropical asia and malaysia
semnopithecus entellus;langur of southern asia. regarded as sacred in india
quadruped;an animal esp. a mammal having four limbs specialized for walking
false miterwort;stoloniferous white-flowered spring-blooming woodland plant
philippine cedar;philippine timber tree having hard red fragrant wood
rangpur;hybrid between mandarin orange and lemon having very acid fruit with orange peel
bittercress;any of various herbs of the genus cardamine, having usually pinnate leaves and racemes of white, pink or purple flowers. cosmopolitan except antarctic
scarlet runner;hairy trailing or prostrate western australian vine with bright scarlet-pink flowers
western birch;birch of western united states resembling the paper birch but having brownish bark
gazelle;small swift graceful antelope of africa and asia having lustrous eyes
carnauba palm;brazilian fan palm having an edible root. source of a useful leaf fiber and a brittle yellowish wax
western sand cherry;dwarf ornamental shrub of western united states having large black to red and yellow sweet edible fruit
yellow flag;common yellow-flowered iris of europe and north africa, naturalized in united states and often cultivated
golden willow;european willow having grayish leaves and yellow-orange twigs used in basketry
sorghum halepense;tall perennial grass that spreads by creeping rhizomes and is grown for fodder. naturalized in southern united states where it is a serious pest on cultivated land
bonduc;tropical tree with large prickly pods of seeds that resemble beans and are used for jewelry and rosaries
grindelia squarrosa;perennial gumweed of western and central north america
electric hammer;a hammer driven by electric motor
poker plant;clump-forming plant of south africa with spikes of scarlet flowers
burning bush;(old testament) the bush that burned without being consumed and from which god spoke to moses
bearded darnel;weedy annual grass often occurs in grainfields and other cultivated land. seeds sometimes considered poisonous
squid;widely distributed fast-moving ten-armed cephalopod mollusk having a long tapered body with triangular tail fins
banded gecko;any of several geckos with dard bands across the body and differing from typical geckos in having movable eyelids. of united states southwest and gulf coast to florida
water hickory;hickory of southern united states having many narrow leaflets and rather bitter nuts
shortleaf pine;large pine of southrn united states having short needles in bunches of 2-3 and red-brown bark when mature
tansy;common perennial aromatic herb native to eurasia having buttonlike yellow flower heads and bitter-tasting pinnate leaves sometimes used medicinally
indian grackle;glossy black asiatic starling often taught to mimic speech
vine maple;small maple of northwestern north america having prostrate stems that root freely and form dense thickets
calostoma ravenelii;a gasteromycete with a leathery stalk and a fruiting body with a thin gelatinous spore case and elliptical spores
cattley guava;small tropical shrubby tree bearing deep red oval fruit
myrtillocactus geometrizans;arborescent cactus of western mexico bearing a small oblong edible berrylike fruit
lampshell;marine animal with bivalve shell having a pair of arms bearing tentacles for capturing food. found worldwide
pineus pinifoliae;a variety of adelgid
tricholoma pessundatum;a mildly poisonous agaric with a viscid reddish brown cap and white gills and stalk
woodsia alpina;slender fern of northern north america with shining chestnut-colored stipes and bipinnate fronds with usually distinct marginal sori
rose of china;large showy asiatic shrub or small tree having large single or double red to deep-red flowers
seville orange;any of various common orange trees yielding sour or bitter fruit. used as grafting stock
papaya;tropical american shrub or small tree having huge deeply palmately cleft leaves and large oblong yellow fruit
squill;an old world plant of the genus scilla having narrow basal leaves and pink or blue or white racemose flowers
nothofagus obliqua;tall deciduous south american tree
turbot;a large brownish european flatfish
lamna nasus;voracious pointed-nose shark of northern atlantic and pacific
pistachio tree;small tree of southern europe and asia minor bearing small hard-shelled nuts
pinus attenuata;medium-sized 3-needled pine of united states pacific coast having a prominent knob on each scale of the cone
beggarweed;west indian forage plant cultivated in southern united states as forage and to improve soil
trumpet flower;mexican evergreen climbing plant having large solitary funnel-shaped fragrant yellow flowers with purple-brown ridges in the throat
malacosoma americana;moth whose larvae are tent caterpillars
top onion;type of perennial onion grown chiefly as a curiosity or for early salad onions. having bulbils that replace the flowers
aoudad;wild sheep of northern africa
joseph s coat;perennial aromatic herb of southeastern asia having large usually bright-colored or blotched leaves and spikes of blue-violet flowers. sometimes placed in genus solenostemon
chop suey greens;grown for its succulent edible leaves used in oriental cooking
batoko palm;small shrubby tree of madagascar cultivated in tropical regions as a hedge plant and for its deep red acid fruits resembling small plums
jennet;female donkey
rainbow pink;chinese pink with deeply toothed rose-lilac flowers with a purplish eye. usually raised as an annual
pulasan;east indian fruit tree bearing fruit similar to but sweeter than that of the rambutan
lamprey;primitive eellike freshwater or anadromous cyclostome having round sucking mouth with a rasping tongue
spanish grunt;a kind of grunt
leucanthemum lacustre;perennial of portugal similar to the oxeye daisy
wild wheat;found wild in palestine. held to be prototype of cultivated wheat
water carpet;aquatic herb with yellowish flowers. central and western united states
chelydra serpentina;large-headed turtle with powerful hooked jaws found in or near water. prone to bite
running blackberry;any of several trailing blackberry brambles especially of north america
red saunders;tree of india and east indies yielding a hard fragrant timber prized for cabinetwork and dark red heartwood used as a dyewood
feathertop;a variety of reed grass
darnel;weedy annual grass often occurs in grainfields and other cultivated land. seeds sometimes considered poisonous
black felt cup;a common name for a variety of sarcosomataceae
sesbania grandiflora;soft-wooded tree with lax racemes of usually red or pink flowers. tropical australia and asia. naturalized in southern florida and west indies
deathwatch;bores through wood making a ticking sound popularly thought to presage death
samia cynthia;large green silkworm of the cynthia moth
wild rosemary;bog shrub of northern and central europe and eastern siberia to korea and japan
thermopsis villosa;eastern united states bush pea
hyperoodon ampullatus;north atlantic beaked whale with a bulbous forehead
june beetle;any of various large usually brown north american leaf-eating beetles common in late spring. the larvae feed on roots of grasses etc.
tortoiseshell;a cat having black and cream and yellowish markings
branchiopod;aquatic crustaceans typically having a carapace and many pairs of leaflike appendages used for swimming as well as respiration and feeding
greater butterfly orchid;south european orchid with dark green flowers that are larger and less fragrant than platanthera bifolia. sometimes placed in genus habenaria
chile nut;chilean shrub bearing coral-red fruit with an edible seed resembling a hazelnut
paeony;any of numerous plants widely cultivated for their showy single or double red or pink or white flowers
kestrel;small old world falcon that hovers in the air against a wind
kweek;trailing grass native to europe now cosmopolitan in warm regions. used for lawns and pastures especially in southern united states and india
button snakeroot;coarse prickly perennial eryngo with aromatic roots. southeastern united states. often confused with rattlesnake master
everlasting pea;any of several perennial vines of the genus lathyrus
ocean pout;common along northeastern coast of north america
canada moonseed;a woody vine of eastern north america having large oval leaves and small white flowers and purple to blue-black fruits
bristletail;small wingless insect with a long bristlelike tail
tall bellflower;annual or perennial of eastern north america with long spikes of blue or white flowers
quercus michauxii;medium to large deciduous tree of moist areas of southeastern united states similar to the basket oak
sweeper;little-known nocturnal fish of warm shallow seas with an oblong compressed body
rhamnus carolinianus;deciduous shrub of eastern and central united states having black berrylike fruit. golden-yellow in autumn
humming bird s trumpet;shrublet of southwestern united states to mexico having brilliant scarlet flowers. sometimes placed in genus zauschneria
senecio cineraria;stiff much-branched perennial of the mediterranean region having very white woolly stems and leaves. sometimes placed in genus cineraria
epacris obtusifolia;small erect shrub of australia and tasmania with fragrant ivory flowers
mullet;freshwater or coastal food fishes a spindle-shaped body. found worldwide
pineapple weed;annual aromatic weed of pacific coastal areas (united states. northeastern asia) having bristle-pointed leaves and rayless yellow flowers
maul oak;medium-sized evergreen of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico with oblong leathery often spiny-edged leaves
caranda palm;south american palm yielding a wax similar to carnauba wax
large toothed aspen;aspen with a narrow crown. eastern north america
pine;a coniferous tree
stock;any of various ornamental flowering plants of the genus malcolmia
commiphora meccanensis;small evergreen tree of africa and asia. leaves have a strong aromatic odor when bruised
black saltwort;a small fleshy herb common along north american seashores and in brackish marshes having pink or white flowers
goldfish;small golden or orange-red freshwater fishes of eurasia used as pond or aquarium fishes
treasure flower;decumbent south african perennial with short densely leafy stems and orange flower rays with black eyespots at base
huntsman s cup;perennial bog herb having dark red flowers and decumbent broadly winged pitchers forming a rosette. of northeastern north america and naturalized in europe especially ireland
capon;castrated male chicken
belvedere;densely branched eurasian plant. foliage turns purple-red in autumn
coati mondi;omnivorous mammal of central and south america
cow;female of domestic cattle: 'moo-cow'' is a child's term'
ranid;insectivorous usually semiaquatic web-footed amphibian with smooth moist skin and long hind legs
goldenrod;any of numerous chiefly summer-blooming and fall-blooming north american plants especially of the genus solidago
galium lanceolatum;bedstraw with sweetish roots
chrysanthemum leucanthemum;tall leafy-stemmed eurasian perennial with white flowers. widely naturalized. often placed in genus chrysanthemum
fig moth;moth whose larvae feed on and mat together with webbing various stored foods
gerenuk;slender east african antelope with slim neck and backward-curving horns
scotch terrier;old scottish breed of small long-haired usually black terrier with erect tail and ears
centaurea solstitialis;european weed having a winged stem and hairy leaves. adventive in the eastern united states
red bay;small tree of southern united states having dark red heartwood
house martin;common small european martin that builds nests under the eaves of houses
isurus oxyrhincus;very swift active bluish shark found worldwide in warm waters. important game fish
black duck;dusky black duck of northeastern united states and canada
vitis rotundifolia;native grape of southeastern united states. origin of many cultivated varieties
clearweed;a plants of the genus pilea having drooping green flower clusters and smooth translucent stems and leaves
cryptomeria japonica;tall evergreen of japan and china yielding valuable soft wood
dyer s woad;european biennial formerly grown for the blue coloring matter yielded by its leaves
white mallee;small shrubby mallee
pacific halibut;a righteye flounder found in the pacific
hydromantes brunus;similar to shasta salamander. lives in cliff crevices and taluses
thysanuran insect;primitive wingless insects: bristletail
quercus myrtifolia;small evergreen shrub or tree of southeastern united states. often forms almost impenetrable thickets in sandy coastal areas
cockspur;small spiny west indian tree
ant shrike;antbirds superficially resembling shrikes
wire grass;coarse annual grass having fingerlike spikes of flowers. native to old world tropics. a naturalized weed elsewhere
red dogwood;european deciduous shrub turning red in autumn having dull white flowers
schinus chichita;small resinous tree or shrub of brazil
caesar s agaric;widely distributed edible mushroom resembling the fly agaric
chamaedaphne calyculata;north temperate bog shrub with evergreen leathery leaves and small white cylindrical flowers
genus paranthropus;former classification for australopithecus robustus
herring;commercially important food fish of northern waters of both atlantic and pacific
clematis baldwinii;erect clematis of florida having pink to purple flowers. sometimes placed in genus viorna
razorback hog;thin-bodied mongrel hog of southeastern united states that is a wild or semi-wild descendant of improved breeds
longlegs;long-legged three-toed black-and-white wading bird of inland ponds and marshes or brackish lagoons
book louse;minute wingless psocopterous insects injurious to books and papers
water gillyflower;a featherfoil of the eastern united states with submerged spongy inflated flower stalks and white flowers
laguncularia racemosa;shrub to moderately large tree that grows in brackish water along the seacoasts of western africa and tropical america. locally important as a source of tannin
horned puffin;n pacific puffin
human immunodeficiency virus;the virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids)
saccharomyces ellipsoides;used in making wine
red angel s trumpet;arborescent south american shrub having very large orange-red flowers
painter;large american feline resembling a lion
heath pea;european herb bearing small tubers used for food and in scotland to flavor whiskey
alpine mouse ear;widespread in arctic and on mountains in europe
arrow leaved aster;a variety of aster
sphyrna tudes;fished for the hide and vitamin-rich liver
jasminum officinale;tall-climbing deciduous shrub with fragrant white or yellow or red flowers used in perfume and to flavor tea
stenopterygius quadrisicissus;an ichthyosaur of the genus stenopterygius
butea monosperma;east indian tree bearing a profusion of intense vermilion velvet-textured blooms and yielding a yellow dye
water milfoil;an aquatic plant of the genus myriophyllum having feathery underwater leaves and small inconspicuous flowers
blue channel cat;a large catfish of the mississippi valley
yellow breasted chat;american warbler noted for imitating songs of other birds
lemon scented gum;similar to but smaller than the spotted gum and having lemon-scented leaves
solanum burbankii;improved garden variety of black nightshade having small edible orange or black berries
southern magnolia;evergreen tree of southern united states having large stiff glossy leaves and huge white sweet-smelling flowers
althaea;any of various plants of the genus althaea. similar to but having smaller flowers than genus alcea
black currant;widely cultivated current bearing edible black aromatic berries
bench press;a small punch press mounted on a workbench
peanut;widely cultivated american plant cultivated in tropical and warm regions. showy yellow flowers on stalks that bend over to the soil so that seed pods ripen underground
downy haw;american red-fruited hawthorn with stems and leaves densely covered with short woolly hairs
black margate;dusky gray food fish found from louisiana and florida southward
purple beech;variety of european beech with shining purple or copper-colored leaves
norway spruce;tall pyramidal spruce native to northern europe having dark green foliage on spreading branches with pendulous branchlets and long pendulous cones
poncirus trifoliata;small fast-growing spiny deciduous chinese orange tree bearing sweetly scented flowers and decorative but inedible fruit: used as a stock in grafting and for hedges
artemisia stelleriana;herb with grayish leaves found along the east coast of north america. used as an ornamental plant
sundial lupine;stout perennial of eastern and central north america having palmate leaves and showy racemose blue flowers
cadra figulilella;moth whose larvae attack dried fruits and cereal products
royal stag;stag with antlers of 12 or more branches
gowen cypress;small sometimes shrubby tree native to california. often used as an ornamental. in some classification systems includes the pygmy cypress and the santa cruz cypress
wartweed;not unattractive european weed whose flowers turn toward the sun
blueberry root;tall herb of eastern north america and asia having blue berrylike fruit and a thick knotty rootstock formerly used medicinally
castilleja sulphurea;plant of moist highland meadows having ragged clusters of pale yellow flowers
new zealand spinach;coarse sprawling australasian plant with red or yellow flowers. cultivated for its edible young shoots and succulent leaves
slipstick;a handheld instrument used for rapid calculations. have been replaced by pocket calculators
blue cohosh;tall herb of eastern north america and asia having blue berrylike fruit and a thick knotty rootstock formerly used medicinally
begonia heracleifolia;rhizomatous begonia having leaves with pointed lobes suggestive of stars and pink flowers
tricholoma vaccinum;an agaric with a cap that is densely covered with reddish fibrils and pale gills an stalk
ruptiliocarpon caracolito;large costa rican mahogonylike tree having light-colored wood suitable for cabinetry. similar to the african lepidobotrys in wood structure as well as in fruit and flowers and leaves and seeds. often classified in other families
japanese pink;very free-flowering variety distinguished by jagged-edged petals
garden violet;european violet typically having purple to white flowers. widely naturalized
dragon arum;european arum resembling the cuckoopint
antlion;the larva of an ant lion or of any of several other insects
devil nettle;a stinging herb of tropical america
veronica peregrina;north american annual with small white flowers widely naturalized as a weed in south america and europe
owl;nocturnal bird of prey with hawk-like beak and claws and large head with front-facing eyes
german ivy;south african succulent evergreen twining climber with yellow flowers grown primarily as a houseplant for its ivylike foliage. sometimes placed in genus senecio
wood avens;hairy eurasian plant with small yellow flowers and an astringent root formerly used medicinally
cretan dittany;dwarf aromatic shrub of crete
celtuce;lettuce valued especially for its edible stems
melia azadirachta;large semi-evergreen tree of east india. trunk exudes a tenacious gum. bitter bark used as a tonic. seeds yield an aromatic oil. sometimes placed in genus melia
ribes rubrum;cultivated european current bearing small edible red berries
allosaurus;late jurassic carnivorous dinosaur. similar to but somewhat smaller than tyrannosaurus
bachelor s button;an annual eurasian plant cultivated in north america having showy heads of blue or purple or pink or white flowers
larix laricina;medium-sized larch of canada and northern united states including alaska having a broad conic crown and rust-brown scaly bark
helleborine;any of several small temperate and tropical orchids having mottled or striped leaves and spikes of small yellowish-white flowers in a twisted raceme
weaverbird;finch-like african and asian colonial birds noted for their elaborately woven nests
white madder;eurasian herb with ample panicles of small white flowers. naturalized in north america
shade tree;a tree planted or valued chiefly for its shade from sunlight
annona reticulata;small tropical american tree bearing a bristly heart-shaped acid tropical fruit
aeschynanthus;a plant of the genus aeschynanthus having somewhat red or orange flowers and seeds having distinctive hairs at base and apex
viola striata;leafy-stemmed violet of eastern north america having large white or creamy flowers faintly marked with purple
rosinweed;north american perennial having a resinous odor and yellow flowers
balm of gilead;small evergreen tree of africa and asia. leaves have a strong aromatic odor when bruised
ranunculus acris;perennial european buttercup with yellow spring flowers widely naturalized especially in eastern north america
cryptocoryne;any plant of the genus cryptocoryne. evergreen perennials growing in fresh or brackish water. tropical asia
pineapple plant;a tropical american plant bearing a large fleshy edible fruit with a terminal tuft of stiff leaves. widely cultivated in the tropics
rhus quercifolia;poisonous shrub of southeastern united states causing a rash on contact
colorado blue spruce;tall spruce with blue-green needles and dense conic crown. older trees become columnar with lower branches sweeping downward
australian magpie;black-and-white oscine birds that resemble magpies
cushion flower;tall straggling shrub with large globose crimson-yellow flowers. western australia
working dog;any of several breeds of usually large powerful dogs bred to work as draft animals and guard and guide dogs
larus ridibundus;small black-headed european gull
spaghetti squash;squash plant bearing oval fruit with smooth yellowish skin and tender stranded flesh resembling spaghetti
vespid;mostly social nest-building wasps
red gum;very large red gum tree
cavia cobaya;stout-bodied nearly tailless domesticated cavy. often kept as a pet and widely used in research
white daisy;tall leafy-stemmed eurasian perennial with white flowers. widely naturalized. often placed in genus chrysanthemum
eleusine indica;coarse annual grass having fingerlike spikes of flowers. native to old world tropics. a naturalized weed elsewhere
creole fish;deep-sea fish of tropical atlantic
tinea pellionella;the larvae live in tubes of its food material fastened with silk that it spins
sticky geranium;geranium of western north america having pinkish-purple flowers in open clusters
bull terrier;short-haired terrier originated in england by crossing the bulldog with terriers
siren;eel-like aquatic north american salamander with small forelimbs and no hind limbs. have permanent external gills
athyrium thelypteroides;fern with elongate silvery outgrowths enclosing the developing spores
whip scorpion;nonvenomous arachnid that resembles a scorpion and that has a long thin stingless tail
dourah;sorghums of dry regions of asia and north africa
analog computer;a computer that represents information by variable quantities (e.g., positions or voltages)
encyclia tampensis;orchid of florida and the bahamas having showy brightly colored flowers. sometimes placed in genus epidendrum
stentor;any member of the genus stentor
sea bass;any of various food and sport fishes of the united states atlantic coast having an elongated body and long spiny dorsal fin
rumex acetosella;small plant having pleasantly acid-tasting arrow-shaped leaves. common in dry places
japanese lilac;lilac of northern china having ovate leaves and profuse early summer rose-lilac flowers
dalbergia cearensis;brazilian tree yielding a handsome cabinet wood
soledad pine;medium-sized 5-needled pine of southwestern california having long cylindrical cones
groundnut;a north american vine with fragrant blossoms and edible tubers. important food crop of native americans
he goat;male goat
oyster;marine mollusks having a rough irregular shell. found on the sea bed mostly in coastal waters
pickerel frog;a meadow frog of eastern north america
nestor notabilis;large brownish-green new zealand parrot
jack o lantern;a large poisonous agaric with orange caps and narrow clustered stalks. the gills are luminescent
oxalis tuberosa;south american wood sorrel cultivated for its edible tubers
thelypteris simulata;delicate feathery shield fern of the eastern united states. sometimes placed in genus thelypteris
erythrina;any of various shrubs or shrubby trees of the genus erythrina having trifoliate leaves and racemes of scarlet to coral red flowers and black seeds. cultivated as an ornamental
masticophis bilineatus;both terrestrial and arboreal snake of united states southwest
burro;small donkey used as a pack animal
rumex acetosa;european sorrel with large slightly acidic sagittate leaves grown throughout north temperate zone for salad and spring greens
muishond;southern african weasel
cygnus cygnus;common old world swan noted for its whooping call
vigna sinensis;sprawling old world annual cultivated especially in southern united states for food and forage and green manure
rifleman bird;small green-and-bronze bird
hypsiglena torquata;nocturnal prowler of western united states and mexico
wheatear;small songbird of northern america and eurasia having a distinctive white rump
white cedar;slow-growing medium-sized cedar of east coast of the united states. resembles american arborvitae
leontocebus rosalia;golden south american monkey with long soft hair forming a mane
helenium hoopesii;stout perennial herb of western united states having flower heads with drooping orange-yellow rays. causes spewing sickness in sheep
eastern chinquapin;shrubby chestnut tree of southeastern united states having small edible nuts
teiid lizard;tropical new world lizard with a long tail and large rectangular scales on the belly and a long tail
cockatoo parrot;small gray australian parrot with a yellow crested head
water horehound;aromatic perennial herb of united states
pelecaniform seabird;large fish-eating seabird with four-toed webbed feet
squab;an unfledged pigeon
rose mallow;plant with terminal racemes of showy white to pink or purple flowers. the english cottage garden hollyhock
cladrastis lutea;small handsome round-headed deciduous tree having showy white flowers in terminal clusters and heavy hardwood yielding yellow dye
anglerfish;fishes having large mouths with a wormlike filament attached for luring prey
cement mixer;a machine with a large revolving drum in which cement is mixed with other materials to make concrete
azalea;any of numerous ornamental shrubs grown for their showy flowers of various colors
spermatophyte;plant that reproduces by means of seeds not spores
otus asio;small north american owl having hornlike tufts of feathers
chamomile;eurasian perennial herb with hairy divided leaves and yellow flowers. naturalized in north america
serranid;marine food sport fishes mainly of warm coastal waters
american hackberry;large deciduous shade tree of southern united states with small deep purple berries
pocketed bat;small brown bat of california and northern mexico
mountain pine;tall pine of western north america with stout blue-green needles. bark is gray-brown with rectangular plates when mature
hoary golden bush;western american shrubs having white felted foliage and yellow flowers that become red-purple
star of bethlehem;any of several perennial plants of the genus ornithogalum native to the mediterranean and having star-shaped flowers
shrub;a low woody perennial plant usually having several major branches
lima bean plant;bush or tall-growing bean plant having large flat edible seeds
indigofera anil;shrub of west indies and south america that is a source of indigo dye
serpent;limbless scaly elongate reptile. some are venomous
monarda fistulosa;perennial herb of north america
swainsona galegifolia;erect or trailing perennial of eastern australia having axillary racemes of blue to purple or red flowers
narrow leaved plantain;an old world plantain with long narrow ribbed leaves widely established in temperate regions
pear haw;erect and almost thornless american hawthorn with somewhat pear-shaped berries
origanum dictamnus;dwarf aromatic shrub of crete
magnolia stellata;deciduous shrubby magnolia from japan having fragrant white starlike flowers blooming before leaves unfold. grown as an ornamental in united states
micromeria juliana;dwarf aromatic shrub of mediterranean regions
rubus odoratus;shrubby raspberry of eastern north america having showy rose to purplish flowers and red or orange thimble-shaped fruit
ring tailed lemur;small lemur having its tail barred with black
megatherian mammal;a large extinct ground sloth
paraguay tea;south american holly. leaves used in making a tealike drink
spodoptera exigua;moth larva that eats foliage of beets and vegetables
wood mint;american herb of genus blephilia with more or less hairy leaves and clusters of purplish or bluish flowers
capsicum annuum conoides;plant bearing erect pungent conical red or yellow or purple fruits. sometimes grown as an ornamental
adalia bipunctata;red ladybug with a black spot on each wing
celery leaved buttercup;annual herb growing in marshy places
brotula;deep-sea fishes
sand sole;common flatfish of north american pacific coast
dita bark;evergreen tree of eastern asia and philippines having large leathery leaves and small green-white flowers in compact cymes. bark formerly used medicinally
holly leaves barberry;ornamental evergreen shrub of pacific coast of north america having dark green pinnate leaves and racemes of yellow flowers followed by blue-black berries
guelder rose;deciduous thicket-forming old world shrub with clusters of white flowers and small bright red berries
blue flag;a common iris of the eastern united states having blue or blue-violet flowers. root formerly used medicinally
african hemp;bowstring hemp of south africa
guevina avellana;chilean shrub bearing coral-red fruit with an edible seed resembling a hazelnut
stock ticker;automatically prints stock quotations on a paper tape
curcuma longa;widely cultivated tropical plant of india having yellow flowers and a large aromatic deep yellow rhizome. source of a condiment and a yellow dye
artemia salina;common to saline lakes
salmonella enteritidis;a form of salmonella that causes gastroenteritis in humans
mantled ground squirrel;common black-striped reddish-brown ground squirrel of western north america. resembles a large chipmunk
purple trillium;trillium of eastern north america having malodorous pink to purple flowers and an astringent root used in fold medicine especially to ease childbirth
onopordon acanthium;biennial eurasian white hairy thistle having pale purple flowers. naturalized in north america
avocet;long-legged web-footed black-and-white shorebird with slender upward-curving bill
petromyzon marinus;large anadromous lamprey sometimes used as food. destructive of native fish fauna in the great lakes
cedar tree;any of numerous trees of the family cupressaceae that resemble cedars
wheel tree;eastern australian tree widely cultivated as a shade tree and for its glossy leaves and circular clusters of showy red to orange-scarlet flowers
herb;a plant lacking a permanent woody stem. many are flowering garden plants or potherbs. some having medicinal properties. some are pests
carum carvi;a eurasian plant with small white flowers yielding caraway seed
convallaria majalis;low-growing perennial plant having usually two large oblong lanceolate leaves and a raceme of small fragrant nodding bell-shaped flowers followed by scarlet berries
rainbow perch;pacific coast fish
greek valerian;pinnate-leaved european perennial having bright blue or white flowers
jack oak;a common scrubby deciduous tree of central and southeastern united states having dark bark and broad 3-lobed (club-shaped) leaves. tends to form dense thickets
tyrannosaurus rex;large carnivorous bipedal dinosaur having enormous teeth with knifelike serrations. may have been a scavenger rather than an active predator. upper cretaceous. north america
mountain alder;tree of western united states
pond lily;a water lily having large leaves and showy fragrant flowers that float on the water. of temperate and tropical regions
sheep laurel;north american dwarf shrub resembling mountain laurel but having narrower leaves and small red flowers. poisonous to young stock
chinchillon;gregarious burrowing rodent larger than the chinchillas
camelus dromedarius;one-humped camel of the hot deserts of north africa and southwestern asia
sarcoscypha coccinea;a discomycete that is a harbinger of spring. the fruiting body is thin and tough and saucer-shaped (about the size of quarter to a half dollar) with a deep bright red upper surface and a whitish exterior
goldeneye;a variety of green lacewing
genipa americana;tree of the west indies and northern south america bearing succulent edible orange-sized fruit
american wall fern;chiefly lithophytic or epiphytic fern of north america and east asia
lynx canadensis;of northern north america
coconut palm;tall palm tree bearing coconuts as fruits. widely planted throughout the tropics
maori hen;flightless new zealand rail of thievish disposition having short wings each with a spur used in fighting
onion stem;a white agaric that tends to cluster and has a club-shaped base
lindera benzoin;deciduous shrub of the eastern united states having highly aromatic leaves and bark and yellow flowers followed by scarlet or yellow berries
coolwart;stoloniferous white-flowered spring-blooming woodland plant
equus asinus;domestic beast of burden descended from the african wild ass. patient but stubborn
meadow saffron;bulbous autumn-flowering herb with white, purple or lavender-and-white flowers. native to western and central europe
holly fern;tropical old world fern having glossy fronds suggestive of holly. sometimes placed in genus polystichum
black vulture;of southern eurasia and northern africa
meeting house;columbine of eastern north america having long-spurred red flowers
panther;a leopard in the black color phase
scilla verna;european scilla with small blue or purple flowers
bacillus;aerobic rod-shaped spore-producing bacterium. often occurring in chainlike formations
chanar;thorny shrub or small tree common in central argentina having small orange or yellow flowers followed by edible berries
lygodium palmatum;delicate fern of the eastern united states having a twining stem and palmately-lobed sterile fronds and forked fertile fronds
pseudaletia unipuncta;moth whose destructive larvae travel in multitudes
procellariiform seabird;large long-winged bird with hooked bill and tubular nostrils that wanders the open seas
planthopper;related to the leafhoppers and spittlebugs but rarely damages cultivated plants
jerusalem thorn;large shrub or shrubby tree having sharp spines and pinnate leaves with small deciduous leaflets and sweet-scented racemose yellow-orange flowers. grown as ornamentals or hedging or emergency food for livestock. tropical america but naturalized in southern united states
swine;stout-bodied short-legged omnivorous animals
alnus serrulata;common shrub of the eastern united states with smooth bark
means grass;tall perennial grass that spreads by creeping rhizomes and is grown for fodder. naturalized in southern united states where it is a serious pest on cultivated land
grapefruit;citrus tree bearing large round edible fruit having a thick yellow rind and juicy somewhat acid pulp
poyou;argentine armadillo with six movable bands and hairy underparts
lepiota morgani;an agaric regarded as poisonous
takin;large heavily built goat antelope of eastern himalayan area
rubber plant;large tropical asian tree frequently dwarfed as a houseplant. source of assam rubber
samolus valerandii;water pimpernel of europe to china
old world hop hornbeam;medium-sized hop hornbeam of southern europe and asia minor
prickly pine;small 2-needled upland pine of the eastern united states (appalachians) having dark brown flaking bark and thorn-tipped cone scales
columbiform bird;cosmopolitan order of land birds having small heads and short legs with four unwebbed toes
wild teasel;european teasel with white to pink flowers. naturalized in united states
columbine;a plant of the genus aquilegia having irregular showy spurred flowers. north temperate regions especially mountains
heritiera trifoliolata;large tree of australasia
lupinus arboreus;evergreen shrub of united states pacific coast having showy yellow or blue flowers. naturalized in australia
arctocephalus philippi;of pacific coast of california and southward
adsuki bean;bushy annual widely grown in china and japan for the flour made from its seeds
sanicula europaea;sanicle of europe and asia having white to pale pink flowers
arilus cristatus;large predatory north american bug that sucks the blood of other insects
ant cow;excretes a honeylike substance eaten by ants
dacrydium colensoi;new zealand silver pine of conical habit with long slender flexuous branches. adapted to cold wet summers and high altitudes
blue headed vireo;common vireo of northeastern north america with bluish slaty-gray head
agropyron trachycaulum;north american grass cultivated in western united states as excellent forage crop
erythronium americanum;eastern north american dogtooth having solitary yellow flowers marked with brown or purple and spotted interiors
potato beetle;black-and-yellow beetle that feeds in adult and larval stages on potato leaves. originally of eastern rocky mountains. now worldwide
wild sage;eurasian sage with blue flowers and verbenalike foliage. naturalized in united states
lhasa apso;a breed of terrier having a long heavy coat raised in tibet as watchdogs
vigna radiata;erect bushy annual widely cultivated in warm regions of india and indonesia and united states for forage and especially its edible seeds. chief source of bean sprouts used in chinese cookery. sometimes plaaaced in genus phaseolus
salix sericea;north american willow with grayish silky pubescent leaves that usually blacken in drying
rubus phoenicolasius;raspberry of china and japan having pale pink flowers grown for ornament and for the small red acid fruits
dog rose;prickly wild rose with delicate pink or white scentless flowers. native to europe
sweet fern;deciduous shrub of eastern north america with scented fernlike leaves and catkin-like heads of tiny white flowers
water strider;long-legged bug that skims about on the surface of water
phegopteris connectilis;beech fern of north america and eurasia
roman wormwood;european wormwood. minor source of absinthe
cotula coronopifolia;south african herb with golden-yellow globose flower heads. naturalized in moist areas along coast of california. cultivated as an ornamental
patella vulgata;marine limpet
tumblewed;bushy plant of western united states
american featherfoil;a featherfoil of the eastern united states with submerged spongy inflated flower stalks and white flowers
sea bird;a bird that frequents coastal waters and the open ocean: gulls. pelicans. gannets. cormorants. albatrosses. petrels. etc.
pecten irradians;small scallop inhabiting shallow waters and mud flats of the north american atlantic coast
broad leaved everlasting pea;perennial climber of central and southern europe having purple or pink or white flowers. naturalized in north america
blowball;any of several herbs of the genus taraxacum having long tap roots and deeply notched leaves and bright yellow flowers followed by fluffy seed balls
button pink;much-branched pink with flowers in clusters. closely related to sweet william
turnip;widely cultivated plant having a large fleshy edible white or yellow root
fig tree;any moraceous tree of the tropical genus ficus. produces a closed pear-shaped receptacle that becomes fleshy and edible when mature
woolly mullein;tall-stalked very woolly mullein with densely packed yellow flowers. ancient greeks and romans dipped the stalks in tallow for funeral torches
fringed pink;low wiry-stemmed branching herb or southern california having fringed pink flowers
sassafras albidum;yellowwood tree with brittle wood and aromatic leaves and bark. source of sassafras oil. widely distributed in eastern north america
band tailed pigeon;wild pigeon of western north america. often mistaken for the now extinct passenger pigeon
casuarina;any of various trees and shrubs of the genus casuarina having jointed horsetaillike stems and whorls of scalelike leaves. some yield heavy hardwood
maverick;unbranded range animal esp. a stray calf
coypu;aquatic south american rodent resembling a small beaver. bred for its fur
majagua;shrubby tree widely distributed along tropical shores. yields a light tough wood used for canoe outriggers and a fiber used for cordage and caulk. often cultivated for ornament
euphorbia peplus;an old world spurge introduced as a weed in the eastern united states
banteng;wild ox of the malay archipelago
field sandbur;grass of the eastern united states and tropical america having spikelets enclosed in prickly burs
sarcocephalus diderrichii;large african forest tree yielding a strong hard yellow to golden brown lumber. sometimes placed in genus sarcocephalus
egretta garzetta;old world egret
common murre;the most frequent variety of murre
shadbush;any of various north american trees or shrubs having showy white flowers and edible blue-black or purplish fruit
calnada pea;common perennial climber of temperate regions of eurasia and north america having dense elongate clusters of flowers
panicum texanum;annual weedy grass used for hay
potato tree;south american shrub or small tree widely cultivated in the tropics. not a true potato
pinscher;any of three breeds of dogs whose ears and tail are usually cropped
clydesdale;heavy feathered-legged breed originally from scotland
polypodium glycyrrhiza;fern having rootstock of a sweetish flavor
rue;european strong-scented perennial herb with gray-green bitter-tasting leaves. an irritant similar to poison ivy
dragon lizard;the largest lizard in the world (10 feet). found on indonesian islands
citellus richardsoni;of sagebrush and grassland areas of western united states and canada
oreopteris limbosperma;common european mountain fern having fragrant lemon or balsam scented fronds
oil palm;pinnate-leaved palms of the genus elaeis having dense clusters of crowded flowers and bright red fruit and yielding high quality palm oils
saurischian;herbivorous or carnivorous dinosaur having a three-pronged pelvis like that of a crocodile
prumnopitys amara;a large fast-growing monoecious tropical evergreen tree having large glossy lanceolate leaves. of rain forests of sumatra and philippines to northern queensland
coffee grinder;grinds roasted coffee beans
cinnabar moth;large red-and-black european moth. larvae feed on leaves of ragwort. introduced into united states to control ragwort
ice bear;white bear of arctic regions
pea;a leguminous plant of the genus pisum
kingfish;large edible mackerel of temperate united states coastal atlantic waters
herpes simplex virus;a herpes virus that affects the skin and nervous system
lathyrus latifolius;perennial climber of central and southern europe having purple or pink or white flowers. naturalized in north america
australian cockroach;widely distributed in warm countries
false asphodel;a plant of the genus tofieldia having linear chiefly basal leaves and small spicate flowers
yellow jacket;small yellow-marked social wasp commonly nesting in the ground
black angus;black hornless breed from scotland
chestnut;a dark golden-brown or reddish-brown horse
bracelet wood;small west indian shrub or tree with hard glossy seeds patterned yellow and brown that are used to make bracelets
kudu;either of two spiral-horned antelopes of the african bush
horse gram;twining herb of old world tropics cultivated in india for food and fodder. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
pieris brassicae;old world form
asplenium platyneuron;common north american fern with polished black stripes
glossopsitta versicolor;lorikeet with a colorful coat
coleus;any of various old world tropical plants of the genus coleus having multicolored decorative leaves and spikes of blue flowers
wild buckwheat;low-growing shrub with spreading branches and flowers in loose heads. desert regions of western united states (california to utah)
sorghum halapense;tall perennial grass that spreads by creeping rhizomes and is grown for fodder. naturalized in southern united states where it is a serious pest on cultivated land
oryzomys palustris;hardy agile rat of grassy marshes of mexico and the southeastern united states
baobab;african tree having an exceedingly thick trunk and gourd-like fruit with edible pulp called monkey bread
hollygrape;ornamental evergreen shrub of pacific coast of north america having dark green pinnate leaves and racemes of yellow flowers followed by blue-black berries
sea pen;fleshy featherlike warm-water colonies
musquash;beaver-like aquatic rodent of north america with dark glossy brown fur
black billed cuckoo;north american cuckoo. builds a nest and rears its own young
cony;any of several small ungulate mammals of africa and asia with rodent-like incisors and feet with hooflike toes
perennial salt marsh aster;a variety of aster
old man s beard;dense festoons of greenish-gray hairlike flexuous strands anchored to tree trunks and branches by sparse wiry roots. southeastern united states and west indies to south america
leatherjack;any of several new world tropical fishes having tiny embedded scales
kidney begonia;rhizomatous begonia with roundish fleshy leaves reddish colored beneath
pollachius pollachius;important food and game fish of northern seas especially north atlantic. related to cod
roman hyacinth;hyacinth with loosely flowered spikes, several growing from one bulb
virginian stock;erect branching herb cultivated for its loose racemes of fragrant white or pink or red or lilac flowers. native to sands and sea cliffs of southwestern greece and southern albania
necturus maculosus;aquatic north american salamander with red feathery external gills
schizaea pusilla;rare small fern of northeastern north america having numerous slender spiraling fronds and forming dense tufts
megalosaur;gigantic carnivorous bipedal dinosaur of the jurassic or early cretaceous in europe
common heath;spindly upright shrub of southern australia and tasmania having white to rose or purple-red flowers
robinia hispida;large shrub or small tree of the eastern united states having bristly stems and large clusters of pink flowers
guano bat;the common freetail bat of southern united states having short velvety fur. migrates south for winter
devil grass;trailing grass native to europe now cosmopolitan in warm regions. used for lawns and pastures especially in southern united states and india
brassica rapa chinensis;asiatic plant grown for its cluster of edible white stalks with dark green leaves
selar crumenophthalmus;of atlantic coastal waters. commonly used for bait
jabiru;large black-and-white stork of tropical africa. its red bill has a black band around the middle
lithophragma parviflorum;plant with mostly basal leaves and slender open racemes of white or pale pink flowers. prairies and open forest of northwestern united states to british columbia and alberta
red valerian;european herb with small fragrant crimson or white spurred flowers
water skater;long-legged bug that skims about on the surface of water
horseshoe crab;large marine arthropod of the american atlantic coast having a domed horseshoe-shaped carapace and stiff pointed tail. a living fossil related to the wood louse
green snake;any of numerous african green snakes
chanal;thorny shrub or small tree common in central argentina having small orange or yellow flowers followed by edible berries
vigna sesquipedalis;south american bean having very long succulent pods
african hunting dog;a powerful doglike mammal of south and east africa that hunts in large packs. now rare in settled area
piranga rubra;of middle and southern united states. male is deep rose-red the female mostly yellow
mahonia aquifolium;ornamental evergreen shrub of pacific coast of north america having dark green pinnate leaves and racemes of yellow flowers followed by blue-black berries
sorex palustris;water shrew of north america
oryctolagus cuniculus;common grayish-brown burrowing animal native to s europe and north africa but introduced elsewhere. widely domesticated and developed in various colors and for various needs. young born naked and helpless
soft coated wheaten terrier;irish breed of medium-sized terrier with an abundant coat any shade of wheat and very hairy head and muzzle
sailors choice;found from florida to brazil and gulf of mexico
painted beauty;american butterfly having dark brown wings with white and golden orange spots
watermint;a european mint that thrives in wet places. has a perfume like that of the bergamot orange. naturalized in eastern north america
tufted centaury;tufted perennial of western europe and azores having bright pink to white flowers
rough green snake;of southern and eastern united states
tapirus terrestris;a tapir found in south and central america
smoke bush;any of various shrubs of the genus conospermum with panicles of mostly white woolly flowers
odontoglossum;any of numerous and diverse orchids of the genus odontoglossum having racemes of few to many showy usually large flowers in many colors
hortensia;very tall branching herb with showy much-doubled yellow flower heads
candida;any of the yeastlike imperfect fungi of the genus candida
common sage;shrubby plant with aromatic grayish-green leaves used as a cooking herb
hardstemmed bulrush;widely distributed north american sedge having rigid olive green stems
erica vagans;bushy shrub having pink to white flowers. common on the moors of cornwall and in southwestern europe. cultivated elsewhere
node;(computer science) any computer that is hooked up to a computer network
winter aconite;small old world perennial herb grown for its bright yellow flowers which appear in early spring often before snow is gone
rocky mountains cherry;dwarf ornamental shrub of western united states having large black to red and yellow sweet edible fruit
neanderthal man;extinct robust human of middle paleolithic in europe and western asia
killdeer plover;american plover of inland waters and fields having a distinctive cry
rough bristlegrass;european foxtail naturalized in north america. often a troublesome weed
picea obovata;tall spruce of northern europe and asia. resembles norway spruce
craniate;animals having a bony or cartilaginous skeleton with a segmented spinal column and a large brain enclosed in a skull or cranium
hoary pea;a plant of the genus tephrosia having pinnate leaves and white or purplish flowers and flat hairy pods
alopecurus pratensis;stout erect perennial grass of northern parts of old world having silky flowering spikes. widely cultivated for pasture and hay. naturalized in north america
eugenia corynantha;australian tree with sour red fruit
cheese press;a press for shaping cheese curd
fairy bluebird;fruit-eating mostly brilliant blue songbird of the east indies
onion thrips;injurious to onion plants and sometimes tobacco
silvery wormwood;silver-haired shrub of central and southern united states and mexico. a troublesome weed on rangelands
brachycome iberidifolia;western australian annual much cultivated for its flower heads with white or bluish to violet or variegated rays
dassie;any of several small ungulate mammals of africa and asia with rodent-like incisors and feet with hooflike toes
persea borbonia;small tree of southern united states having dark red heartwood
claytonia caroliniana;similar to claytonia virginica but having usually pink flowers. eastern north america
polyodon spathula;primitive fish of the mississippi valley having a long paddle-shaped snout
small leaved linden;large spreading european linden with small dark green leaves. often cultivated as an ornamental
athyrium pycnocarpon;north american fern with narrow fronds on yellowish leafstalks
pointed leaf maple;small shrubby japanese plant with leaves having 5 to 7 acuminate lobes. yellow in autumn
osmund;any fern of the genus osmunda: large ferns with creeping rhizomes. naked sporangia are on modified fronds that resemble flower clusters
lanternfly;large brightly marked tropical insect with a process like a snout that was formerly thought to emit light
necklace poplar;a common poplar of eastern and central united states. cultivated in united states for its rapid growth and luxuriant foliage and in europe for timber
jerusalem thorn;thorny eurasian shrub with dry woody winged fruit
xanthosoma atrovirens;tropical american aroid having edible tubers that are cooked and eaten like yams or potatoes
citrus medica;thorny evergreen small tree or shrub of india widely cultivated for its large lemonlike fruits that have thick warty rind
whin;very spiny and dense evergreen shrub with fragrant golden-yellow flowers. common throughout western europe
wild bergamot;any of various aromatic herbs of the genus monarda
cranberry tree;deciduous thicket-forming old world shrub with clusters of white flowers and small bright red berries
bloodleaf;any plant of the genus iresine having colored foliage
cuttle;ten-armed oval-bodied cephalopod with narrow fins as long as the body and a large calcareous internal shell
totalizer;performs simple arithmetic functions
strangler fig;a common tropical american clusia having solitary white or rose flowers
bladder fern;any fern of the genus cystopteris characterized by a hooded indusium or bladderlike membrane covering the sori
oxyura jamaicensis;reddish-brown stiff-tailed duck of north america and and northern south america
lawyerbush;stout-stemmed trailing shrub of new zealand that scrambles over other growth
evergreen bittersweet;broad and bushy asiatic twining shrub with pinkish fruit. many subspecies or varieties
tomcat;male cat
pothos;evergreen liana widely cultivated for its variegated foliage
jack bean;annual semierect bushy plant of tropical south america bearing long pods with white seeds grown especially for forage
sea anemone;marine polyps that resemble flowers but have oral rings of tentacles. differ from corals in forming no hard skeleton
hooker s onion;a common north american wild onion with a strong onion odor and an umbel of pink flowers atop a leafless stalk. british columbia to california and arizona and east to wyoming and colorado
barberry;any of numerous plants of the genus berberis having prickly stems and yellow flowers followed by small red berries
aster macrophyllus;tufted perennial wood aster of north america. naturalized in europe
richardson ground squirrel;of sagebrush and grassland areas of western united states and canada
polypodium polypodioides;fern growing on rocks or tree trunks and having fronds grayish and scurfy below. americas and south africa
automatic teller machine;a machine (outside some banks) that dispenses cash when a personal coded card is used
flowering stone;any plant of the genus lithops native to africa having solitary yellow or white flowers and thick leaves that resemble stones
six lined racerunner;very swift lizard of eastern and central united states
pancake turtle;voracious aquatic turtle with a flat flexible shell covered by a leathery skin. can inflict painful bites
certhia familiaris;common european brown-and-buff tree creeper with down-curved bill
mustard;any of several cruciferous plants of the genus brassica
platanus racemosa;tall tree of baja california having deciduous bark and large alternate palmately lobed leaves and ball-like clusters of flowers
sea milkwort;a small fleshy herb common along north american seashores and in brackish marshes having pink or white flowers
sweet melon;any of several varieties of vine whose fruit has a netted rind and edible flesh and a musky smell
blackfly;small blackish stout-bodied biting fly having aquatic larvae. sucks the blood of birds as well as humans and other mammals
wool grass;grass often cultivated for its long white-ribbed leaves and large plumes resembling those of pampas grass
kola;tree bearing large brown nuts containing e.g. caffeine. source of cola extract
garry oak;small deciduous tree of western north america with crooked branches and pale gray bark
egyptian cotton;fine long-stable somewhat brownish cotton grown in egypt. believed to be derived from sea island cotton or by hybridization with peruvian cotton
proboscidea fragrans;a herbaceous plant of the genus proboscidea
purple finch;north american finch having a raspberry-red head and breast and rump
larrea tridentata;desert shrub of southwestern united states and new mexico having persistent resinous aromatic foliage and small yellow flowers
andromeda;any of several shrubs of the genus andromeda having leathery leaves and clusters of small flowers
cape hunting dog;a powerful doglike mammal of south and east africa that hunts in large packs. now rare in settled area
snake feeder;slender-bodied non-stinging insect having iridescent wings that are outspread at rest. adults and nymphs feed on mosquitoes etc.
psylla;small active cicada-like insect with hind legs adapted for leaping. feeds on plant juices
deepwater squirrelfish;a squirrelfish found from south carolina to bermuda and gulf of mexico
crane fly;long-legged slender flies that resemble large mosquitoes but do not bite
dromedary;one-humped camel of the hot deserts of north africa and southwestern asia
yellowtail;superior food fish of the tropical atlantic and caribbean with broad yellow stripe along the sides and on the tail
swift;small plain-colored bird that resembles a swallow and is noted for its rapid flight
prosopium cylindraceum;bronze-backed whitefish of northern north america and siberia
mariposa lily;any of several plants of the genus calochortus having tulip-shaped flowers with 3 sepals and 3 petals. southwestern united states and mexico
spinus pinus;small finch of north american coniferous forests
gerardia virginica;sparsely branched north american perennial with terminal racemes of bright yellow flowers resembling those of the foxglove. sometimes placed in genus gerardia
horn fly;small black european fly introduced into north america. sucks blood from cattle especially at the base of the horn
mugwort;any of several weedy composite plants of the genus artemisia
righteye flounder;flounders with both eyes on the right side of the head
triceratops;huge ceratopsian dinosaur having three horns and the neck heavily armored with a very solid frill
centaurea imperialis;perennial of mountains of iran and iraq. cultivated for its fragrant rose-pink flowers
rock hopper;small penguin of the falkland islands and new zealand
sarcodinian;protozoa that move and capture food by forming pseudopods
argasid;tick lacking a dorsal shield and having mouth parts on the under side of the head
acanthocybium solandri;large fast-moving predacious food and game fish. found worldwide
carangid fish;a percoid fish of the family carangidae
common devil s claw;annual of southern united states to mexico having large whitish or yellowish flowers mottled with purple and a long curving beak
roman nettle;annual european nettle with stinging foliage and small clusters of green flowers
allium sativum;bulbous herb of southern europe widely naturalized. bulb breaks up into separate strong-flavored cloves
german iris;a large iris with purple or white flowers, native to central and southern europe
aegiceras majus;an australian tree resembling the black mangrove of the west indies and florida
parasitic worm;worm that is parasitic on the intestines of vertebrates especially roundworms and tapeworms and flukes
amethystine python;with an amethyst color
flag;plants with sword-shaped leaves and erect stalks bearing bright-colored flowers composed of three petals and three drooping sepals
ulmus rubra;north american elm having rough leaves that are red when opening. yields a hard wood
rosa moschata;rose native to mediterranean region having curved or climbing branches and loose clusters of musky-scented flowers
polymastigote;flagellates with several flagella
cocoa palm;tall palm tree bearing coconuts as fruits. widely planted throughout the tropics
pinyon;any of several low-growing pines of western north america
european goatsucker;old world goatsucker
desert rat;any of various leaping rodents of desert regions of north america and mexico. largest members of the family heteromyidae
coyol;tropical american palm having edible nuts and yielding a useful fiber
passer montanus;eurasian sparrow smaller than the house sparrow
guernsey;breed of dairy cattle from the island of guernsey
crackerberry;creeping red-berried perennial herb distinguished by clustered leaf whorls at tips of shoots. greenland to alaska
european sea bream;food fish of european coastal waters
torrey pine;medium-sized 5-needled pine of southwestern california having long cylindrical cones
sand sage;silver-haired shrub of central and southern united states and mexico. a troublesome weed on rangelands
chinese mustard;asiatic mustard used as a potherb
saussurea costus;annual herb of the eastern himalayas (kashmir) having purple florets and a fragrant root that yields a volatile oil used in perfumery and for preserving furs
big bud hickory;smooth-barked north american hickory with 7 to 9 leaflets bearing a hard-shelled edible nut
epiphyllum;any cactus of the genus epiphyllum having flattened jointed irregularly branching stems and showy tubular flowers
cyrtomium aculeatum;tropical old world fern having glossy fronds suggestive of holly. sometimes placed in genus polystichum
gallinago media;old world snipe larger and darker than the whole snipe
beach strawberry;wild strawberry of western united states and south america. source of many varieties of cultivated strawberries
dogtooth violet;perennial woodland spring-flowering plant. widely cultivated
passiflora incarnata;of southern united states. having an insipid berry the size of a hen egg
sciurus hudsonicus;of northern united states and canada
pepper shrub;evergreen shrub or small tree whose foliage is conspicuously blotched with red and yellow and having small black fruits
longicorn;long-bodied beetle having very long antennae
sylvilagus floridanus;widely distributed in united states except northwest and far west regions
eudromias morinellus;rare plover of upland areas of eurasia
northern red oak;large symmetrical deciduous tree with rounded crown widely distributed in eastern north america. has large leaves with triangular spiny tipped lobes and coarse-grained wood less durable than that of white oaks
false wintergreen;evergreen of eastern north america with leathery leaves and numerous white flowers
polemonium reptans;erect or spreading perennial of the eastern united states
caddice fly;small moth-like insect having two pairs of hairy membranous wings and aquatic larvae
amaryllis belladonna;amaryllis of south africa often cultivated for its fragrant white or rose flowers
sunberry;improved garden variety of black nightshade having small edible orange or black berries
carpetweed;annual prostrate mat-forming weed having whorled leaves and small greenish-white flowers. widespread throughout north america
meadow buttercup;perennial european buttercup with yellow spring flowers widely naturalized especially in eastern north america
clusia major;a common tropical american clusia having solitary white or rose flowers
seaside goldenrod;vigorous showy goldenrod common along eastern and gulf coasts of north america
least shrew;small brown shrew of grassy regions of eastern united states
kniphofia praecox;widely cultivated hybrid poker plant
bison bonasus;european bison having a smaller and higher head than the north american bison
oxeye daisy;similar to oxeye daisy
pawpaw;small tree native to the eastern united states having oblong leaves and fleshy fruit
pteris cretica;cultivated in many varieties as houseplants
sleepy dick;common old world herb having grasslike leaves and clusters of star-shaped white flowers with green stripes. naturalized in the eastern united states
lightwood;tall australian acacia yielding highly valued black timber
poke;tall coarse perennial american herb having small white flowers followed by blackish-red berries on long drooping racemes. young fleshy stems are edible. berries and root are poisonous
aranea diademata;a common european garden spider
turnip cabbage;plant with a thick bulbous edible yellow root. used as food and animal feed
hemp;any plant of the genus cannabis. a coarse bushy annual with palmate leaves and clusters of small green flowers. yields tough fibers and narcotic drugs
atavist;an organism that has the characteristics of a more primitive type of that organism
paris quadrifolia;european herb with yelow-green flowers resembling and closely related to the trilliums. reputed to be poisonous
desert plant;plant adapted for life with a limited supply of water. compare hydrophyte and mesophyte
pinus strobiformis;medium-size pine of northwestern mexico. bark is dark brown and furrowed when mature
cygnus buccinator;large pure white wild swan of western north america having a sonorous cry
longicorn beetle;long-bodied beetle having very long antennae
iris verna;low-growing spring-flowering american iris with bright blue-lilac flowers
deodar;tall east indian cedar having spreading branches with nodding tips. highly valued for its appearance as well as its timber
dominican mahogany;mahogany tree of west indies
mustela putorius;dark brown mustelid of woodlands of eurasia that gives off an unpleasant odor when threatened
black spleenwort;spleenwort of europe and africa and asia having pinnate fronds and yielding an astringent
reaction turbine;a turbine with blades arranged to develop torque from gradual decrease of steam pressure from inlet to exhaust
animated oat;mediterranean oat held to be progenitor of modern cultivated oat
anaerobe;an organism esp. a bacterium that does not require air or free oxygen to live
stinking nightshade;poisonous fetid old world herb having sticky hairy leaves and yellow-brown flowers. yields hyoscyamine and scopolamine
brisling;small herring processed like a sardine
downy bromegrass;annual or winter annual grass with softly hairy leaves of the mediterranean
scutellaria lateriflora;an american mint that yields a resinous exudate used especially formerly as an antispasmodic
coral pea;any of various australian climbing plants of the genus kennedia having scarlet flowers
laver;edible red seaweeds
picris echioides;widespread european weed with spiny tongue-shaped leaves and yellow flowers. naturalized in united states
gadfly;any of various large flies that annoy livestock
american badger;a variety of badger native to america
fetus;an unborn or unhatched vertebrate in the later stages of development showing the main recognizable features of the mature animal
sweet sand verbena;plant having heads of fragrant white trumpet-shaped flowers. grows in sandy arid regions
solidago missouriensis;similar to meadow goldenrod but usually smaller
butternut;north american walnut tree having light-brown wood and edible nuts. source of a light-brown dye
cleome;any of various often strong-smelling plants of the genus cleome having showy spider-shaped flowers
staghorn fern;any of various tropical ferns of the genus platycerium having large flat lobed fronds often resembling the antlers of a stag
gloxinia spesiosa;south american herb cultivated in many varieties as a houseplant for its large handsome leaves and large variously colored bell-shaped flowers
eumeces callicephalus;frequents oak and pine habitats in rocky mountainous areas of united states southwest and mexico
mynah bird;tropical asian starlings
anchovy pear;west indian tree bearing edible mangolike fruit
downy birch;european birch with dull white to pale brown bark and somewhat drooping hairy branches
ustilago maydis;a common smut attacking indian corn causing grayish white swellings that rupture to expose a black spore mass
low bush blueberry;low-growing deciduous shrub of northeastern north america having flowers in compact racemes and bearing sweet dark blue berries
brassica hirta;eurasian mustard cultivated for its pungent seeds. a source of table mustard and mustard oil
european flatfish;important food fish of europe
shortia;any plant of the genus shortia. evergreen perennial herbs with smooth leathery basal leaves and showy white solitary flowers
rhus diversiloba;poisonous shrub of the north american pacific coast causing a rash on contact
heart leaved aster;perennial wood aster of eastern north america
lizard orchid;an orchid of the genus himantoglossum
arolla pine;large 5-needled european pine. yields cembra nuts and a resinous exudate
nodding groundsel;plant with erect leafy stems bearing clusters of rayless yellow flower heads on bent individual stalks. moist regions of southwestern united states
western narrow mouthed toad;small secretive toad with smooth tough skin of central and western north america
aaron s rod;tall-stalked very woolly mullein with densely packed yellow flowers. ancient greeks and romans dipped the stalks in tallow for funeral torches
morus alba;asiatic mulberry with white to pale red fruit. leaves used to feed silkworms
frog s bit;european floating plant with roundish heart-shaped leaves and white flowers
psophocarpus tetragonolobus;tuberous-rooted twining annual vine bearing clusters of purplish flowers and pods with four jagged wings. old world tropics
diplotaxis muralis;yellow-flowered european plant that grows on old walls and in waste places. an adventive weed in north america
ash;any of various deciduous pinnate-leaved ornamental or timber trees of the genus fraxinus
whitetail jackrabbit;largest hare of northern plains and western mountains of united states. brownish-gray in summer and pale gray in winter. tail nearly always all white
tinca tinca;freshwater dace-like game fish of europe and western asia noted for ability to survive outside water
prunus salicina;small tree of china and japan bearing large yellow to red plums usually somewhat inferior to european plums in flavor
broccoli raab;plant grown for its pungent edible leafy shoots
red clover;erect to decumbent short-lived perennial having red-purple to pink flowers. the most commonly grown forage clover
citrus paradisi;citrus tree bearing large round edible fruit having a thick yellow rind and juicy somewhat acid pulp
ozothamnus secundiflorus;shrub with white woolly branches and woolly leaves having fragrant flowers forming long sprays. flowers suitable for drying. sometimes placed in genus helichrysum
morning glory;any of various twining vines having funnel-shaped flowers that close late in the day
bonito;fish whose flesh is dried and flaked for japanese cookery. may be same species as skipjack tuna
molucca balm;aromatic annual with a tall stems of small whitish flowers enclosed in a greatly enlarged saucer- or bell-shaped calyx
argyranthemum frutescens;perennial subshrub of the canary islands having usually pale yellow daisylike flowers. often included in genus chrysanthemum
loxodonta africana;african elephant having enormous flapping ears and ivory tusks
limenitis camilla;eurasian butterfly with brown wings and white markings
mitella pentandra;small plant with leaves in a basal cluster and tiny greenish flowers in slender racemes. northwestern north america to california and colorado
pearly shelled mussel;the pearly lining of the dark shells is a source of mother-of-pearl
common horehound;european aromatic herb with hairy leaves and numerous white flowers in axillary cymes. leaves yield a bitter extract use medicinally and as flavoring
red spider mite;small web-spinning mite. a serious orchard pest
switch cane;small cane of watery or moist areas in southern united states
palometa simillima;smaller than florida pompano. common in west indies
kenaf;valuable fiber plant of east indies now widespread in cultivation
packera aurea;weedy herb of the eastern united states to texas having golden-yellow flowers. sometimes becomes invasive. sometimes placed in genus senecio
willow tree;any of numerous deciduous trees and shrubs of the genus salix
artemis spinescens;half-shrubby perennial valuable as sheep forage in the united states
hemiparasite;a parasitic plant that contains some chlorophyll and therefore is capable of photosynthesis
eucalypt gunnii;small to medium-sized tree of tasmania
euphorbia exigua;european erect or depressed annual weedy spurge adventive in northeastern united states
korean lespedeza;annual native to korea but widely cultivated for forage and hay in hot dry regions
slippery dick;small wrasse of tropical atlantic
heath;a low evergreen shrub of the family ericaceae. has small bell-shaped pink or purple flowers
elagatis bipinnulata;streamlined cigar-shaped jack. good game fish
swallow;small long-winged songbird noted for swift graceful flight and the regularity of its migrations
manilkara bidentata;a hard-wooded tropical tree yielding balata gum and heavy red timber
garden sorrel;low perennial with small silvery-green ovate to hastate leaves
medicago lupulina;prostrate european herb with small yellow flowers and curved black pods. naturalized in north america
pink shower tree;tropical american semi-evergreen tree having erect racemes of pink or rose-colored flowers. used as an ornamental
false indigo;dense shrub of moist riverbanks and flood plains of the eastern united states having attractive fragrant foliage and dense racemes of dark purple flowers
anchusa officinalis;perennial or biennial herb cultivated for its delicate usually blue flowers
brevoortia tyrannis;shad-like north american marine fishes used for fish meal and oil and fertilizer
spider fern;fern of north africa and azores and canary islands
pouched mole;small burrowing australian marsupial that resembles a mole
lycopodium clavitum;a variety of clubmoss
trapper s tea;rocky mt. shrub similar to ledum groenlandicum
white titi;shrub or small tree of southeastern united states to west indies and brazil. grown for the slender racemes of white flowers and orange-crimson foliage
leathery polypody;stiff leathery-leaved fern of western north america having ovate fronds parted to the midrib
zanthoxylum americanum;small deciduous aromatic shrub (or tree) having spiny branches and yellowish flowers. eastern north america
viperine grass snake;a small harmless grass snake
fringed orchis;any of several summer-flowering american orchids distinguished by a fringed or lacerated lip
pasang;wild goat of iran and adjacent regions
file server;(computer science) a computer that provides workstations on a network with controlled access to shared resources
spider brake;asiatic fern introduced in america
landlocked salmon;atlantic salmon confined to lakes of new england and southeastern canada
shaving brush tree;tree of mexico to guatemala having densely hairy flowers with long narrow petals clustered at ends of branches before leaves appear
feathertop;northeastern tropical african plant having feathery panicles
almond willow;old world willow with light green leaves cultivated for use in basketry
checkered adder;nonvenomous tan and brown king snake with an arrow-shaped occipital spot. southeastern ones have red stripes like coral snakes
madia sativa;south american herb with sticky glandular foliage. source of madia oil
chaja;largest crested screamer. naive to southern brazil and argentina
wild orange;small fast-growing spiny deciduous chinese orange tree bearing sweetly scented flowers and decorative but inedible fruit: used as a stock in grafting and for hedges
newfoundland;breed of very large heavy usually black dogs developed in newfoundland. highly intelligent and vigorous swimmers
petroselinum crispum;annual or perennial herb with aromatic finely-cut leaves
drum;small to medium-sized bottom-dwelling food and game fishes of shallow coastal and fresh waters that make a drumming noise
sea squirt;ascidian that can contract its body and eject streams of water
pleurothallis;any of numerous small tufted orchids of the genus pleurothallis having leathery to fleshy leaves and racemes of 1 to many small flowers
jukebox;a cabinet containing an automatic record player. records are played by inserting a coin
pocket gopher;burrowing rodent of the family geomyidae having large external cheek pouches. of central america and southwestern north america
chelidonium majus;perennial herb with branched woody stock and bright yellow flowers
patchouli;small east indian shrubby mint. fragrant oil from its leaves is used in perfumes
diomedea exulans;very large albatross. white with wide black wings
peepul;fig tree of india noted for great size and longevity. lacks the prop roots of the banyan
agnathan;eel-shaped vertebrate without jaws or paired appendages including the cyclostomes and some extinct forms
schlumbergera baridgesii;epiphytic cactus of brazilian ancestry widely cultivated as a houseplant having jointed flat segments and usually rose-purple flowers that bloom in winter
dyer s greenweed;small eurasian shrub having clusters of yellow flowers that yield a dye. common as weed in england and united states. sometimes grown as an ornamental
sturnus vulgaris;gregarious bird having plumage with dark metallic gloss. builds nests around dwellings and other structures. naturalized worldwide
suillus albivelatus;a short squat edible fungus with a reddish brown cap and white stalk. fruits under pines in the spring
saprophyte;an organism that feeds on dead organic matter especially a fungus or bacterium
plantago virginica;north american annual or biennial with long soft hairs on the leaves
red willow;eurasian osier having reddish or purple twigs and bark rich in tannin
sida rhombifolia;herb widely distributed in tropics and subtropics used for forage and medicinally as a demulcent and having a fine soft bast stronger than jute. sometimes an aggressive weed
erysimum cheiranthoides;slender yellow-flowered european mustard often troublesome as a weed. formerly used as an anthelmintic
honey berry;tropical american tree bearing a small edible fruit with green leathery skin and sweet juicy translucent pulp
saxicola rubetra;brown-and-buff european songbird of grassy meadows
eucalypt grandis;very tall tree of queensland and new south wales
whale shark;large spotted shark of warm surface waters worldwide. resembles a whale and feeds chiefly on plankton
sleeper;tropical fish that resembles a goby and rests quietly on the bottom in shallow water
sour fig;low-growing south african succulent plant having a capsular fruit containing edible pulp
star grass;trailing grass native to europe now cosmopolitan in warm regions. used for lawns and pastures especially in southern united states and india
high warp loom;a handloom in which the warp is carried vertically. for weaving tapestry
butter and eggs;common european perennial having showy yellow and orange flowers. a naturalized weed in north america
plains lemon monarda;annual of southern united states
silver dollar;southeastern european plant cultivated for its fragrant purplish flowers and round flat papery silver-white seedpods that are used for indoor decoration
field pennycress;foetid eurasian weed having round flat pods. naturalized throughout north america
beggar ticks;any of several plants of the genus bidens having yellow flowers and prickly fruits that cling to fur and clothing
cimex lectularius;bug of temperate regions that infests esp. beds and feeds on human blood
beach plum bush;seacoast shrub of northeastern north america having showy white blossoms and edible purple fruit
alnus glutinosa;medium-sized tree with brown-black bark and woody fruiting catkins. leaves are hairy beneath
campephilus principalis;large black-and-white woodpecker of southern united states and cuba having an ivory bill. nearly extinct
asparagus setaceous;a fernlike plant native to south africa
mountain watercress;mat-forming perennial found in cold springs of the eastern united states
lathyrus nissolia;annual european vetch with red flowers
hungarian lilac;central european upright shrub having elliptic leaves and upright clusters of lilac or deep violet flowers
natal plum;very large closely branched south african shrub having forked bright green spines and shiny leaves
bottlenose whale;north atlantic beaked whale with a bulbous forehead
power loom;a loom operated mechanically
cord grass;any of several perennial grasses of the genus spartina. some important as coastal soil binders
air potato;yam of tropical africa and asia cultivated for it large tubers
true bacteria;a large group of bacteria having rigid cell walls. motile types have flagella
santolina chamaecyparissus;branching aromatic mediterranean shrub with woolly stems and leaves and yellow flowers
sea lily;crinoid with delicate radiating arms and a stalked body attached to a hard surface
calceolaria;any garden plant of the genus calceolaria having flowers with large inflated slipper-shaped lower lip
senecio jacobaea;widespread european weed having yellow daisylike flowers. sometimes an obnoxious weed and toxic to cattle if consumed in quantity
salix nigra;north american shrubby willow having dark bark and linear leaves growing close to streams and lakes
rock rabbit;small short-eared burrowing mammal of rocky uplands of asia and western north america
nagi;medium-sized tree having glossy lanceolate leaves. southern china to taiwan and southern japan
machine tool;a power-driven machine for cutting or shaping or finishing metals or other materials
tulipa suaveolens;small early-blooming tulip
prunus alleghaniensis;wild plum of northeastern united states having dark purple fruits with yellow flesh
cultivated carrot;perennial plant widely cultivated as an annual in many varieties for its long conical deep-orange edible roots. temperate and tropical regions
acidophil;an organism that thrives in a relatively acid environment
traveller s joy;vigorous deciduous climber of europe to afghanistan and lebanon having panicles of fragrant green-white flowers in summer and autumn
kiggelaria africana;large much-branched shrub grown primarily for its evergreen foliage
sour grass;any of certain coarse weedy plants with long taproots, sometimes used as table greens or in folk medicine
common heath;small erect shrub of australia and tasmania with fragrant ivory flowers
sculpin;any of numerous spiny large-headed broad-bouthed usually scaleless scorpaenoid fishes
haddock;important food fish on both sides of the atlantic. related to cod but usually smaller
wood strawberry;europe
plow horse;a horse used to pull a plow
drosophila;small fly used in studying basic mechanisms of inheritance
lingcod;food fish of northern pacific waters related to greenlings
shigella;rod-shaped gram-negative enterobacteria. some are pathogenic for warm-blooded animals
parrotfish;gaudy tropical fishes with parrotlike beaks formed by fusion of teeth
rosita;erect plant with small clusters of pink trumpet-shaped flowers of southwestern united states
tuna;new zealand eel
neuropteran;insect having biting mouthparts and four large membranous wings with netlike veins
fighting cock;a cock bred and trained for fighting
quackgrass;european grass spreading rapidly by creeping rhizomes. naturalized in north america as a weed
cutleaved coneflower;tall leafy plant with erect branches ending in large yellow flower heads with downward-arching rays. rocky mtns south to arizona and east to atlantic coast
duckling;young duck
blanquillo;important marine food fishes
trumpet flower;evergreen north american honeysuckle vine having coral-red or orange flowers
cedar of lebanon;cedar of lebanon and northwestern syria that attains great age and height
spider plant;native to south america but naturalized in warm parts of united states. grown for its long-lasting spider-shaped white to pink-purple flowers
willet;large north american shorebird of eastern and gulf coasts
graminaceous plant;cosmopolitan herbaceous or woody plants with hollow jointed stems and narrow long-bladed leaves
wahoo;deciduous shrub having purple capsules enclosing scarlet seeds
hippocrepis comosa;european woody-pased perennial with yellow umbellate flowers followed by flattened pods that separate into horseshoe-shaped joints
african millet;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
perognathus flavescens;small rodent of open areas of united states plains states
halophile;archaebacteria requiring a salt-rich environment for growth and survival
buckleya distichophylla;parasitic shrub of the eastern united states having opposite leaves and insignificant greenish flowers followed by oily dull-green olivelike fruits
boehmeria nivea;tall perennial herb of tropical asia with dark green leaves. cultivated for flax-like fiber from its woody stems
arisaema triphyllum;common american spring-flowering woodland herb having sheathing leaves and an upright club-shaped spadix with overarching green and purple spathe producing scarlet berries
caryocar nuciferum;large south american evergreen tree trifoliate leaves and drupes with nutlike seeds used as food and a source of cooking oil
pseudaletia unipuncta;noctuid moth larvae that travel in multitudes destroying esp. grass and grain
border terrier;small rough-coated terrier of british origin
allium cepa aggregatum;type of onion plant producing small clustered mild-flavored bulbs used as seasoning
allium canadense;north american bulbous plant
acrocarp;a moss in which the main axis is terminated by the archegonium (and hence the capsule)
christ thorn;somewhat climbing bushy spurge of madagascar having long woody spiny stems with few leaves and flowers with scarlet bracts
discomycete;any fungus that is a member of the subclass discomycetes
opuntia tuna;tropical american flat-jointed prickly pear. jamaica
white mustard;eurasian mustard cultivated for its pungent seeds. a source of table mustard and mustard oil
toad rush;low-growing annual rush of damp low-lying ground. nearly cosmopolitan
hippopotamus;massive thick-skinned herbivorous animal living in or around rivers of tropical africa
white walnut;north american walnut tree having light-brown wood and edible nuts. source of a light-brown dye
common water snake;in some classifications placed in the genus nerodia. western united states snake that seldom ventures far from water
colaptes chrysoides;southwestern united states bird like the yellow-shafted flicker but lacking the red neck
wood horsetail;eurasia except southern russia. northern north america
tara vine;high-climbing asiatic vine having long finely serrate leaves and racemes of white flowers followed by greenish-yellow edible fruit
hulsea algida;low tufted plant having hairy stems each topped by a flower head with short narrow yellow rays. northwestern united states
sweet potato vine;pantropical vine widely cultivated in several varieties for its large sweet orange-fleshed tuberous root
russian almond;asiatic shrub cultivated for its rosy red flowers
italian bee;yellowish honeybee resembling the carniolan bee in its habits
makaira mazara;pacific marlin
billfish;primitive predaceous north american fish covered with hard scales and having long jaws with needle-like teeth
sparkleberry;shrub or small tree of eastern united states having black inedible berries
largemouth black bass;a large black bass. the angle of the jaw falls behind the eye
arum maculatum;common european arum with lanceolate spathe and short purple spadix. emerges in early spring. source of a sagolike starch called arum
malus baccata;asian wild crab apple cultivated in many varieties for it small acid usually red fruit used for preserving
eucalyptus pauciflora;small to medium-sized tree of australia and tasmania having smooth white to light-grey bark shedding in patches or strips
fire tree;a terrestrial evergreen shrub or small tree of western australia having brilliant yellow-orange flowers. parasitic on roots of grasses
ficus deltoidea;shrub or small tree often grown as a houseplant having mistletoelike foliage
zalophus lobatus;a variety of sea lion found in australia
winter squash plant;any of various plants of the species cucurbita maxima and cucurbita moschata producing hard-rinded squashes that mature in the fall
striped button quail;a variety of button quail having stripes
lungless salamander;mostly terrestrial salamanders that breathe through their thin moist skin. lay eggs in moist places on land. rarely enter water
american white birch;small american birch with peeling white bark often worked into e.g. baskets or toy canoes
black oak;medium to large deciduous timber tree of the eastern united states and southeastern canada having dark outer bark and yellow inner bark used for tanning. broad 5-lobed leaves are bristle-tipped
cynoscion nebulosus;weakfish of southern atlantic and gulf coasts of united states
cat s tail;tall marsh plant with pokerlike seed heads that explode when mature shedding large quantities of down. its long flat leaves are used for making mats and chair seats. of north america, europe, asia and north africa
tensile strength;the strength of material expressed as the greatest longitudinal stress it can bear without tearing apart
vaccinium scoparium;shrub of northwestern north america bearing red berries
cub shark;a most common shark in temperate and tropical coastal waters worldwide. heavy-bodied and dangerous
geranium molle;western geranium with small pink flowers. a common weed on lawns and in vacant lots
albizia julibrissin;attractive domed or flalt-topped asiatic tree having bipinnate leaves and flowers with long silky stamens
seed plant;plant that reproduces by means of seeds not spores
virginian witch hazel;common shrub of eastern north america having small yellow flowers after the leaves have fallen
hypochaeris radicata;european weed widely naturalized in north america having yellow flower heads and leaves resembling a cat's ears
podophyllum peltatum;north american herb with poisonous root stock and edible though insipid fruit
alder leaved serviceberry;shrub or small tree of northwestern north america having fragrant creamy white flowers and small waxy purple-red fruits
potamogale;amphibious african insectivorous mammal that resembles an otter
anser cygnoides;very large wild goose of northeast asia. interbreeds freely with the graylag
piscidia erythrina;small tree of west indies and florida having large odd-pinnate leaves and panicles of red-striped purple to white flowers followed by decorative curly winged seedpods. yields fish poisons
fragrant orchid;european orchid having dense spikes of fragrant pink or lilac or red flowers with conspicuous spurs
european bird cherry;small european cherry tree closely resembling the american chokecherry
chihuahuan spotted whiptail;having longitudinal stripes overlaid with light spots. upland lizard of united states southwest and mexico
aspidistra;evergreen perennial with large handsome basal leaves. grown primarily as a foliage houseplant
cat thyme;mediterranean germander having small hairy leaves and reddish purple flowers. attractive to cats
great gray owl;large dish-faced owl of northern north america and western eurasia
oligoporus leucospongia;a pore fungus with a whitish cottony soft cap found on conifer logs in forests at high elevation in the western united states and adjacent canada
portulaca grandiflora;widely cultivated in many varieties for its fleshy mosslike foliage and profusion of brightly colored flowers
trionyx spiniferus;river turtle of western united states with a warty shell. prefers quiet water
austrocedrus chilensis;small well-shaped south american evergreen having coppery bark and pretty foliage
mallee hen;adult female mallee fowl
sorrel tree;australian tree with acid foliage
zanthoxylum flavum;west indian tree with smooth lustrous and slightly oily wood
water flea;minute free-swimming freshwater copepod having a large median eye and pear-shaped body and long antennae used in swimming. important in some food chains and as intermediate hosts of parasitic worms that affect man e.g. guinea worms
blackcock;male black grouse
cold s foot;tufted evergreen perennial herb having spikes of tiny white flowers and glossy green round to heart-shaped leaves that become coppery to maroon or purplish in fall
halogeton glomeratus;a coarse annual herb introduced into north america from siberia. dangerous to sheep and cattle on western rangelands because of its high oxalate content
odobenus rosmarus;of north atlantic and arctic waters
pink calla;calla having a rose-colored spathe
chimney plant;bellflower of southeastern europe
elephant tusk;annual of southern united states to mexico having large whitish or yellowish flowers mottled with purple and a long curving beak
bucking bronco;a vicious or unbreakable bronco
cluster bean;drought-tolerant herb grown for forage and for its seed which yield a gum used as a thickening agent or sizing material
ursus maritimus;white bear of arctic regions
spiny anteater;burrowing spine-covered monotreme of australia having a long snout and claws for hunting ants and termites
western fence lizard;common western lizard. seen on logs or rocks
tabasco plant;plant bearing very hot medium-sized oblong red peppers. grown principally in the gulf coast states for production of hot sauce
water dragon;north american herbaceous perennial of wet places having slender curled tail-like racemes of small white flowers
myrtle flag;perennial marsh plant having swordlike leaves and aromatic roots
steenbok;small plains antelope of southeastern africa
chionochloa conspicua;used by maoris for thatching
canary grass;canary islands grass. seeds used as feed for caged birds
tragelaphus scriptus;antelope with white markings like a harness and twisted horns
yellow hornet;small yellow-marked social wasp commonly nesting in the ground
eupatorium rugosum;american herb having flat-topped clusters of small white flower heads. reputedly a cause of trembles and milksickness. sometimes placed in genus eupatorium
nepeta cataria;hairy aromatic perennial herb having whorls of small white purple-spotted flowers in a terminal spike. used in the past as a domestic remedy. strongly attractive to cats
common fennel;strongly aromatic with a smell of aniseed. leaves and seeds used for seasoning
wisteria frutescens;an the eastern united states native resembling the cultivated japanese wisteria having pale purple-lilac flowers
milkweed;any of numerous plants of the genus asclepias having milky juice and pods that split open releasing seeds with downy tufts
yellow foxglove;european yellow-flowered foxglove
wire matrix printer;a printer in which each character is represented by a pattern of dots
cathartes aura;common in south and central america and southern united states
succulent;a plant adapted to arid conditions and characterized by fleshy water-storing tissues that act as water reservoirs
cyanocitta cristata;common jay of eastern north america. bright blue with grey breast
dwarf elm;fast-growing shrubby asian tree naturalized in united states for shelter or ornament
irish gorse;very spiny and dense evergreen shrub with fragrant golden-yellow flowers. common throughout western europe
sow;an adult female hog
drake;adult male of a wild or domestic duck
cantaloupe;a variety of muskmelon vine having fruit with a tan rind and orange flesh
eleusine coracana;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
north island edelweiss;perennial herb closely resembling european edelweiss. new zealand
setaria italica stramineofructa;millet having yellow grains in large drooping spikes
colaptes auratus;large flicker of eastern north america with a red neck and yellow undersurface to wings and tail
peking man;fossils found near peking china. lost during world war ii. formerly sinanthropus pekinensis
bird of minerva;nocturnal bird of prey with hawk-like beak and claws and large head with front-facing eyes
saponaria officinalis;plant of european origin having pink or white flowers and leaves yielding a detergent when bruised
calamus australis;tall scrambling spiny palm of northeastern queensland australia
running postman;hairy trailing or prostrate western australian vine with bright scarlet-pink flowers
bartonia;annual grown especially for its fragrant golden nocturnal flowers
cornflower;plant of southern and southeastern united states grown for its yellow flowers that can be dried
silver sage;low much-branched perennial of western united states having silvery leaves. an important browse and shelter plant
northern storm petrel;sooty black petrel with white markings. of the north atlantic and mediterranean
aureolaria pedicularia;multi-stemmed north american annual having solitary axillary dark golden-yellow flowers resembling those of the foxglove. sometimes placed in genus gerardia
cornus canadensis;creeping red-berried perennial herb distinguished by clustered leaf whorls at tips of shoots. greenland to alaska
american germander;subshrub with serrate leaves and cream to pink or purple flowers in spikelike racemes. north america
melancholy thistle;perennial stoloniferous thistle of northern europe with lanceolate basal leaves and usually solitary heads of reddish-purple flowers
timber wolf;brindled gray wolf of forested northern regions of north america
schnittlaugh;perennial having hollow cylindrical leaves used for seasoning
lead plant;shrub of sandy woodlands and stream banks of western united states having hoary pinnate flowers and dull-colored racemose flowers. thought to indicate the presence of lead ore
english ryegrass;european perennial grass widely cultivated for pasture and hay and as a lawn grass
monocot;a monocotyledonous flowering plant
chenopodium glaucum;annual european plant with spikes of greenish flowers and leaves that are white-hairy beneath. common as a weed in north america
four wing flying fish;having both pectoral and pelvic fins enlarged
pallas s sandgrouse;eurasiatic sandgrouse with a black patch on the belly
acer negundo;common shade tree of eastern and central united states
selaginella lepidophylla;densely tufted fern ally of southwestern united states to peru. curls up in a tight ball when dry and expands and grows under moist conditions
legless lizard;degenerate wormlike burrowing lizard of california closely related to alligator lizards
bottle gentian;gentian of eastern north america having tubular blue or white flowers that open little if at all
lilium martagon;lily with small dull purple flowers of northwestern europe and ny asia
china tree;tree of northern india and china having purple blossoms and small inedible yellow fruits. naturalized in the southern united states as a shade tree
platyctenean;ctenophore have long tentacles and flattened body
galeorhinus zyopterus;pacific shark valued for its fins (used by chinese in soup) and liver (rich in vitamin a)
lancewood;source of most of the lancewood of commerce
firebush;evergreen south american shrub having showy trumpet-shaped orange flowers. grown as an ornamental or houseplant
woodfern;any of various ferns of the genus dryopteris
markweed;climbing plant common in eastern and central united states with ternate leaves and greenish flowers followed by white berries. yields an irritating oil that causes a rash on contact
falco tinnunculus;small old world falcon that hovers in the air against a wind
monilia;any of the yeastlike imperfect fungi of the genus monilia
gastrolobium;any of various australian evergreen shrubs of the genus gastrolobium having whorled compound leaves poisonous to livestock and showy yellow to deep reddish-orange flowers followed by two-seeded pods
beech marten;eurasian marten having a brown coat with pale breast and throat
st john s wort;any of numerous plants of the genus hypericum having yellow flowers and transparently dotted leaves. traditionally gathered on st john's eve to ward off evil
yellow root;perennial herb of northeastern united states having a thick knotted yellow rootstock and large rounded leaves
cob;stocky short-legged harness horse
brisbane quandong;australian tree having hard white timber and glossy green leaves with white flowers followed by one-seeded glossy blue fruit
pipa pipa;south american toad. incubates its young in pits in the skin of its back
santa cruz cypress;rare california cypress taller than but closely related to gowen cypress and sometimes considered the same species
boil smut;a common smut attacking indian corn causing grayish white swellings that rupture to expose a black spore mass
cart horse;horse kept for pulling carts
old world least weasel;of europe
hippoglossoides platessoides;large american food fish
kingfish;small silvery marine food fish found off california
branta bernicla;the best known variety of brant goose
fan fern;large australiasian fern with fanlike repeatedly forked fronds. sometimes placed in genus gleichenia
western rattlesnake;widely distributed between the mississippi and the rockies
leviathan;the largest or most massive thing of its kind. 'it was a leviathan among redwoods'. 'they were assigned the leviathan of textbooks'
whorled loosestrife;common north american yellow-flowered plant
ammobium alatum;australian plant widely cultivated for its beautiful silvery-white blooms with bright yellow centers on long winged stems
phasmid insect;large cylindrical or flattened mostly tropical insects with long strong legs that feed on plants. walking sticks and leaf insects
spondias mombin;tropical american tree having edible yellow fruit
salamandra maculosa;european salamander having dark skin with usually yellow spots
malaria parasite;parasitic protozoan of the genus plasmodium that causes malaria in humans
chittimwood;shrubby tree of united states pacific coast. yields cascara sagrada
pearly razorfish;a kind of razorfish
ceylon cinnamon;tropical asian tree with aromatic yellowish-brown bark. source of the spice cinnamon
bombay hemp;valuable fiber plant of east indies now widespread in cultivation
skunk;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
salvelinus fontinalis;north american freshwater trout. introduced in europe
pseudomonas solanacearum;causes brown rot in tomatoes and potatoes and tobacco etc
bullhead;freshwater sculpin with a large flattened bony-plated head with hornlike spines
shallu;sorghum having slender dry stalks and small hard grains. introduced into united states from india
tomato hornworm;large green white-striped hawkmoth larva that feeds on tomato and potato plants. similar to tobacco hornworm
anoa;small buffalo of the celebes having small straight horns
california allspice;straggling aromatic shrub of southwestern united states having fragrant brown flowers
bog kalmia;laurel of bogs of northwestern united states having small purple flowers and pale leaves that are glaucous beneath
bluewing;american teal
venus;any of various orchids of the genus paphiopedilum having slender flower stalks bearing 1 to several waxy flowers with pouchlike lips
heartseed;herbaceous vine of tropical america and africa
tamarisk;any shrub or small tree of the genus tamarix having small scalelike or needle-shaped leaves and feathery racemes of small white or pinkish flowers. of mostly coastal areas with saline soil
tussilago farfara;perennial herb with large rounded leaves resembling a colt's foot and yellow flowers appearing before the leaves do. native to europe but now nearly cosmopolitan. used medicinally especially formerly
summer squash vine;any of various usually bushy plants producing fruit that is eaten while immature and before the rind or seeds harden
green ash;a variety of red ash having glossy branchlets and lower leaf surfaces
howler;monkey of tropical south american forests having a loud howling cry
pipturus argenteus;australian plant of genus pipturus whose fiber is used in making cloth
vicia orobus;european perennial toxic vetch
snapping beetle;able to right itself when on its back by flipping into the air with a clicking sound
deer;distinguished from bovidae by the male's having solid deciduous antlers
red shouldered hawk;north american hawk with reddish brown shoulders
silver willow;north american willow with grayish silky pubescent leaves that usually blacken in drying
chrysanthemum balsamita;tansy-scented eurasian perennial herb with buttonlike yellow flowers. used as potherb or salad green and sometimes for potpourri or tea or flavoring. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
antheraea polyphemus;very large yellowish-brown american silkworm moth with large eyespots on hind wings. larvae feed on fruit and shade trees
wtv;a tumor virus transmitted by leafhoppers
pachycephalosaur;bipedal herbivore having 10 inches of bone atop its head. largest bone-headed dinosaur ever found
siberian larch;medium-sized larch of northeastern russia and siberia having narrowly conic crown and soft narrow bright-green leaves. used in cultivation
euphorbia ingens;small tree of dry open parts of southern africa having erect angled branches suggesting candelabra
winter heliotrope;european herb with vanilla-scented white-pink flowers
crown daisy;shrubby annual of the mediterranean region with yellowish-white flowers
australopithecus afarensis;fossils found in ethiopia. from 3.5 to 4 million years ago
dace;small european freshwater fish with a slender bluish-green body
coral bush;australian shrub having simple obovate leaves and brilliant scarlet flowers
spruce gall aphid;a variety of adelgid
fig;mediterranean tree widely cultivated for its edible fruit
showy lady slipper;pale pink wild orchid of northeastern america having an inflated pouchlike lip
papaver californicum;showy annual of california with red flowers
iresine herbstii;south american plant having green to purple or red branches with green to purple ornamental foliage and spikes of insignificant woolly flowers with dry membranous bracts
edelweiss;alpine perennial plant native to europe having leaves covered with whitish down and small flower heads held in stars of glistening whitish bracts
gray birch;medium-sized birch of eastern north america having white or pale gray bark and valueless wood. occurs often as a second-browth forest tree
scarab;scarabaeid beetle considered divine by ancient egyptians
fallow deer;small eurasian deer
quercus wislizenii;medium-small shrubby evergreen tree of western north america similar to the coast live oak but occurring chiefly in foothills of mountain ranges removed from the coast. an important part of the chaparral
coleus aromaticus;an aromatic fleshy herb of india and ceylon to south africa. sometimes placed in genus plectranthus
rorippa nasturtium aquaticum;perennial eurasian cress growing chiefly in springs or running water having fleshy pungent leaves used in salads or as a potherb or garnish. introduced in north america and elsewhere
california live oak;highly variable often shrubby evergreen oak of coastal zone of western north america having small thick usually spiny-toothed dark-green leaves
iris kochii;iris of northern italy having deep blue-purple flowers. similar to but smaller than iris germanica
java man;fossil remains found in java. formerly called pithecanthropus erectus
phlox stellaria;low mat-forming herb of rocky places in united states
gliricidia;any of several small deciduous trees valued for their dark wood and dense racemes of nectar-rich pink flowers grown in great profusion on arching branches. roots and bark and leaves and seeds are poisonous
myristica fragrans;east indian tree widely cultivated in the tropics for its aromatic seed. source of two spices: nutmeg and mace
sucker;mostly north american freshwater fishes with a thick-lipped mouth for feeding by suction. related to carps
cup and saucer;european biennial widely cultivated for its blue or violet or white flowers
roman coriander;herb of the mediterranean region having pungent seeds used like those of caraway
european bream;european freshwater fish having a flattened body and silvery scales. of little value as food
maigre;large european marine food fish
larus canus;the common gull of eurasia and northeastern north america
mutisia;any of various plants of the genus mutisia
guinea grains;west african plant bearing pungent peppery seeds
dactylopius coccus;mexican red scale insect that feeds on cacti. the source of a red dye
greenhouse whitefly;whitefly that inhabits greenhouses
shellflower;showy perennial of marshlands of eastern and central north america having waxy lanceolate leaves and flower with lower part creamy white and upper parts pale pink to deep purple
paradisea liliastrum;a variety of spiderwort
tapir;large inoffensive chiefly nocturnal ungulate of tropical america and southeast asia having a heavy body and fleshy snout
chrysophrys australis;important dark-colored edible food and game fish of australia
bennet;north american white-flowered avens
erianthus ravennae;grass often cultivated for its long white-ribbed leaves and large plumes resembling those of pampas grass
hylocichla guttata;north american thrush noted for its complex and appealing song
lily;any liliaceous plant of the genus lilium having showy pendulous flowers
devil s milk;an old world spurge introduced as a weed in the eastern united states
flame tree;north australian tree having white flowers and broad leaves
coluber constrictor;blackish racer of the eastern united states that grows to six feet
tang;any of various coarse seaweeds
wheat eelworm;small roundworm parasitic on wheat
pityrogramma chrysophylla;fern of west indies and south america having fronds with bright golden-yellow undersides
leper lily;eurasian checkered lily with pendant flowers usually veined and checkered with purple or maroon on a pale ground and shaped like the bells carried by lepers in medieval times. widely grown as an ornamental
congo peafowl;both sexes are brightly colored
solant goose;very large white gannet with black wing tips
queensland hemp;herb widely distributed in tropics and subtropics used for forage and medicinally as a demulcent and having a fine soft bast stronger than jute. sometimes an aggressive weed
leporid;rabbits and hares
evening lychnis;bluish-green herb having sticky stems and clusters of large evening-opening white flowers with much-inflated calyx. sometimes placed in genus lychnis
scots heather;common old world heath represented by many varieties. low evergreen grown widely in the northern hemisphere
nut;a variety of water_chestnut
gulo gulo;wolverine of northern eurasia
paigle;early spring flower common in british isles having fragrant yellow or sometimes purple flowers
wineberry;raspberry of china and japan having pale pink flowers grown for ornament and for the small red acid fruits
green snake;either of two n. american chiefly insectivorous green snakes
das;any of several small ungulate mammals of africa and asia with rodent-like incisors and feet with hooflike toes
hawk s beard;any of various plants of the genus crepis having loose heads of yellow flowers on top of a long branched leafy stem. northern hemisphere
acanthocereus pentagonus;cactus of the southwestern united states and northern mexico having edible juicy fruit
endoparasite;any of various parasites that live in the internal organs of animals (especially intestinal worms)
stephanomeria malheurensis;small mustardlike plant of oregon. a threatened species
cork tree;prickly australian coral tree having soft spongy wood
sparid;spiny-finned food fishes of warm waters having well-developed teeth
caesalpinia gilliesii;a tropical flowering shrub having bright orange or red flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
fleabane;hairy perennial eurasian herb with yellow daisylike flowers reputed to destroy or drive away fleas
wood warbler;small bright-colored american songbird with a weak unmusical song
quercus wizlizenii;medium-small shrubby evergreen tree of western north america similar to the coast live oak but occurring chiefly in foothills of mountain ranges removed from the coast. an important part of the chaparral
sticktight flea;parasitic on esp. the heads of chickens
tamiasciurus douglasi;far western united states counterpart of the red squirrel
anise plant;native to egypt but cultivated widely for its aromatic seeds and the oil from them used medicinally and as a flavoring in cookery
stephanotis floribunda;twining woody vine of madagascar having thick dark waxy evergreen leaves and clusters of large fragrant waxy white flowers along the stems. widely cultivated in warm regions
patchouly;small east indian shrubby mint. fragrant oil from its leaves is used in perfumes
red deer;common deer of temperate europe and asia
bastard toadflax;woody creeping parasite of western north america having numerous thick powderly-looking leaves and panicles of small dull-white flowers
brown oak;large tree of australasia
panax ginseng;chinese herb with palmately compound leaves and small greenish flowers and forked aromatic roots believed to have medicinal powers
raphanus sativus longipinnatus;radish of japan with a long hard durable root eaten raw or cooked
bird s eye bush;shrub with narrow-elliptic glossy evergreen leaves and yellow flowers with leathery petaloid sepals
mexican hairless;any of an old breed of small nearly hairless dogs of mexico
luvarus imperialis;large silvery fish found worldwide in warm seas but nowhere common. resembles a whale and feeds on plankton
narthecium ossifragum;of western europe: scandinavia to northern spain and portugal
ring blackbird;european thrush common in rocky areas. the male has blackish plumage with a white band around the neck
dibranchiate mollusk;cephalopods having two gills
medic;any of several old world herbs of the genus medicago having small flowers and trifoliate compound leaves
switch grass;grass of western america used for hay
waxflowerl;small waxy white or pinkish-white saprophytic woodland plant having scalelike leaves and a nodding flower. turns black with age
fagus sylvatica atropunicea;variety of european beech with shining purple or copper-colored leaves
garden centipede;minute arthropod often infesting the underground parts of truck-garden and greenhouse crops
lepidium sativum;annual herb used as salad green and garnish
podiceps cristatus;large old world grebe with black ear tufts
rufous rubber cup;a common name for a variety of sarcosomataceae
menispermum canadense;a woody vine of eastern north america having large oval leaves and small white flowers and purple to blue-black fruits
white mangrove;shrub to moderately large tree that grows in brackish water along the seacoasts of western africa and tropical america. locally important as a source of tannin
ranunculus flammula;semi-aquatic eurasian perennial crowfoot with spear-shaped leaves. naturalized in new zealand
driver ant;tropical nomadic ant that preys mainly on other insects
achimenes;any plant of the genus achimenes having showy bell-shaped flowers that resemble gloxinias
carassius vulgaris;european carp closely resembling wild goldfish
rickettsia;any of a group of parasitic microorganisms that live in arthropods (as ticks and mites) and can cause disease if transmitted to human beings
crawfish;small freshwater decapod crustacean that resembles a lobster
acer saccharinum;a common north american maple tree. 5-lobed leaves are light green above and silvery white beneath. source of hard close-grained but brittle light-brown wood
ixodes spinipalpis;usually does not bite humans. transmits lyme disease spirochete to cottontail rabbits and wood rats
icterus galbula;a kind of new world oriole
garden lettuce;annual or perennial garden plant having succulent leaves used in salads. widely grown
cornish;english breed of compact domestic fowl. raised primarily to crossbreed to produce roasters
blacktail deer;mule deer of western rocky mountains
gray kingbird;a kingbird that breeds in the southeastern united states and winters in tropical america. similar to but larger than the eastern kingbird
false scorpion;small nonvenomous arachnid resembling a tailless scorpion
tusk shell;any of various seashore mollusks having a tapering tubular shell open at each end and a foot pointed like a spade for burrowing
little club moss;any of numerous fern allies of the genus selaginella
plum tomato;plant bearing small red to yellow fruit
trichophaga tapetzella;larvae feed on carpets and other woolens
lakeland terrier;breed of wire-haired terrier originally from the english lake district used for hunting
suksdorfia violaceae;slender delicate plant with wide roundish deeply lobed leaves and deep pink to violet funnel-shaped flowers. british columbia to northern oregon and west to idaho and montana
macamba;tropical american feather palm having a swollen spiny trunk and edible nuts
salix alba sericea;north american willow with grayish silky pubescent leaves that usually blacken in drying
swanflower;any of several orchids of the genus cycnoches having slender arching columns of flowers suggesting the neck of a swan
harbor seal;small spotted seal of coastal waters of the northern hemisphere
firefly;tropical american click beetle having bright luminous spots
giant fulmar;large brownish petrel chiefly of antarctic seas
stonewort;any of various submerged aquatic algae of the genus chara having nodes with whorled filamentlike branches. usually encrusted with calcium carbonate deposits
lesser bullrush;reed maces of america, europe, north africa, asia
mountain everlasting;a variety of cat's_foot
old world rabbit;common grayish-brown burrowing animal native to s europe and north africa but introduced elsewhere. widely domesticated and developed in various colors and for various needs. young born naked and helpless
jersey pine;common small shrubby pine of the eastern united states having straggling often twisted or branches and short needles in bunches of 2
artocarpus heterophyllus;east indian tree cultivated for its immense edible fruit and seeds
bustard;large heavy-bodied chiefly terrestrial game bird capable of powerful swift flight. classified with wading birds but frequents grassy steppes
shasta salamander;primarily a cave dweller in the mount shasta area
cow oak;medium to large deciduous tree of the eastern united states. its durable wood is used as timber or split and woven into baskets or chair seats
cotton stainer;a true bug: bug that damages and stains the lint of developing cotton
eastern dasyure;a variety of dasyure
oldwench;tropical atlantic fish
bonduc;handsome tree of central and eastern north america having large bipinnate leaves and green-white flowers followed by large woody brown pods whose seeds are used as a coffee substitute
european cranberry;small red-fruited trailing cranberry of arctic and cool regions of the northern hemisphere
tamarau;small buffalo of mindoro in the philippines
android;an automaton that resembles a human being
witchgrass;european grass spreading rapidly by creeping rhizomes. naturalized in north america as a weed
lobelia;any plant or flower of the genus lobelia
rhamnus frangula;small tree common in europe
hyacinthus orientalis albulus;hyacinth with loosely flowered spikes, several growing from one bulb
paramecium;any member of the genus paramecium
common speedwell;common hairy european perennial with pale blue or lilac flowers in axillary racemes
quercus prinus;medium to large deciduous tree of the eastern united states. its durable wood is used as timber or split and woven into baskets or chair seats
ebony;tropical tree of southern asia having hard dark-colored heartwood used in cabinetwork
currajong;widely distributed tree of eastern australia yielding a tough durable fiber and soft light attractively grained wood. foliage is an important emergency food for cattle
shetland pony;breed of very small pony with long shaggy mane and tail
midgrass;any of various grasses of moderate height which covered the undisturbed prairie in the united states. includes most of the forage grasses of the temperate zone
turnip plant;any of several widely cultivated plants having edible roots
marmalade tree;tropical american tree having wood like mahogany and sweet edible egg-shaped fruit. in some classifications placed in the genus calocarpum
whitethroat;common north american finch with a white patch on the throat and black-and-white striped crown
trifolium alpinum;european mountain clover with fragrant usually pink flowers
cuniculus paca;large burrowing rodent of south and central america. highly esteemed as food
bourtree;common black-fruited shrub or small tree of europe and asia. fruit used for wines and jellies
pronghorn;fleet antelope-like ruminant of western north american plains with small branched horns
true cedar;any cedar of the genus cedrus
nolina microcarpa;stemless plant with tufts of grasslike leaves and erect panicle of minute creamy white flowers. southwestern united states and mexico
lemon sole;important american food fish in the winter
prairie coneflower;coneflower of central to southwestern united states
hottentot s fig;low-growing south african succulent plant having a capsular fruit containing edible pulp
tansy leaved rocket;perennial stellate and hairy herb with small yellow flowers of mountains of southern europe. sometimes placed in genus sisymbrium
ribbed toad;western north american frog with a tail-like copulatory organ
jaboticaba tree;small evergreen tropical tree native to brazil and west indies but introduced into southern united states. grown in brazil for its edible tough-skinned purple grapelike fruit that grows all along the branches
crataegus crus galli;eastern united states hawthorn with long straight thorns
leaf bug;small bright-colored insect that feeds on plant juices
pleuronectes platessa;large european food fish
brama raii;deep-bodied sooty-black pelagic spiny-finned fish of north atlantic and north pacific. valued for food
tyto alba;mottled buff and white owl often inhabiting barns and other structures. important in rodent control
live forever;perennial northern temperate plant with toothed leaves and heads of small purplish-white flowers
roebuck;male roe deer
adenium multiflorum;south african shrub having a swollen succulent stem and bearing showy pink and white flowers after the leaves fall. popular as an ornamental in tropics
spruce;any coniferous tree of the genus picea
bushbaby;agile long-tailed nocturnal african lemur with dense woolly fur and large eyes and ears
wolf pup;a young wolf
fern ally;pteridophytes of other classes than filicopsida
serpent fern;tropical american fern with brown scaly rhizomes cultivated for its large deeply lobed deep bluish-green fronds. sometimes placed in genus polypodium
cuckooflower;a bitter cress of europe and america
platanthera leucophea;of central north america. a threatened species
red morning glory;annual herb having scarlet flowers. the eastern united states
populus grandidentata;aspen with a narrow crown. eastern north america
church mouse;a fictional mouse created by lewis carroll
bewick s swan;eurasian subspecies of tundra swan. smaller than the whooper
sea wormwood;plants of western and northern european coasts
poor man s weatherglass;herb with scarlet or white or purple blossoms that close at approach of rainy weather
wood aster;any of several asters of eastern north america usually growing in woods
cryptomonad;common in fresh and salt water appearing along the shore as algal blooms
mighty mouse;a fictional mouse endowed with great strength and courage
old world coral snake;any of various venomous elapid snakes of asia and africa and australia
yellowbelly marmot;heavy-bodied yellowish-brown marmot of rocky areas of western north america
hopper;a machine used for picking hops
old world white pelican;similar to american white pelican
rodolia cardinalis;native to australia. introduced elsewhere to control scale insects
black mangrove;a mangrove of the west indies and the southern florida coast. occurs in dense thickets and has numerous short roots that bend up from the ground
sea tang;any of various coarse seaweeds
iguana;large herbivorous tropical american arboreal lizards with a spiny crest along the back. used as human food in central and south america
haplosporidian;parasite in invertebrates and lower vertebrates of no known economic importance
ortygan;any of several east indian birds
black wattle;australian tree that yields tanning materials
carex arenaria;european maritime sedge naturalized along atlantic coast of united states. rootstock has properties of sarsaparilla
african crocodile;a dangerous crocodile widely distributed in africa
butterfly bush;tropical shrub having clusters of white or violet or yellow flowers
potato bean;a north american vine with fragrant blossoms and edible tubers. important food crop of native americans
drayhorse;horse kept for pulling carts
asplenium bradleyi;a spleenwort of eastern to southern united states
selaginella rupestris;tufted spikemoss forming loose spreading mats. eastern north america
euphorbia lathyris;poisonous old world spurge. adventive in america. seeds yield a purgative oil
solanum jamesii;erect or spreading perennial of southwestern united states and mexico bearing small pale brown to cream potatolike tubers
spoonflower;tropical american aroid having edible tubers that are cooked and eaten like yams or potatoes
protist;free-living or colonial organisms with diverse nutritional and reproductive modes
pogonophoran;slender animal with tentacles and a tubelike outer covering. lives on the deep ocean bottom
bull bay;evergreen tree of southern united states having large stiff glossy leaves and huge white sweet-smelling flowers
phytelephas macrocarpa;a stemless palm tree of brazil and peru bearing ivory nuts
lonicera dioica;twining deciduous shrub with clusters of purple-tinged yellow-green flowers. northeastern america
taurotragus derbianus;large dark striped eland of western equatorial africa
drill;similar to the mandrill but smaller and less brightly colored
pond apple tree;small evergreen tree of tropical america with edible fruit. used chiefly as grafting stock
common american shad;shad of atlantic coast of north america. naturalized to pacific coast
ceratostomella ulmi;fungus causing dutch elm disease
terrier;any of several usually small short-bodied breeds originally trained to hunt animals living underground
squatina squatina;sharks with broad flat bodies and winglike pectoral fins but that swim the way sharks do
coracan;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
bird louse;wingless insect with mouth parts adapted for biting. mostly parasitic on birds
fulmar petrel;heavy short-tailed oceanic bird of polar regions
clammy locust;small rough-barked locust of southeastern united states having racemes of pink flowers and glutinous branches and seeds
buckthorn;a shrub or shrubby tree of the genus rhamnus. fruits are source of yellow dyes or pigments
scooter;large black diving duck of northern parts of the northern hemisphere
redbone;a speedy red or red-and-tan american hound
prunus dasycarpa;small hybrid apricot of asia and asia minor having purplish twigs and white flowers following by inferior purple fruit
indian hemp;valuable fiber plant of east indies now widespread in cultivation
coluber constrictor flaviventris;bluish-green blacksnake found from ohio to texas
american ivy;common north american vine with compound leaves and bluish-black berrylike fruit
tautogolabrus adspersus;common in north atlantic coastal waters of the united states
adansonia gregorii;australian tree having an agreeably acid gourd-like fruit
gazania rigens;decumbent south african perennial with short densely leafy stems and orange flower rays with black eyespots at base
dalmatia pyrethrum;white-flowered pyrethrum of balkan area whose pinnate leaves are white and silky-hairy below. source of an insecticide. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
black bindweed;common european twining vine with tuberous roots and cordate leaves and red berries
otus scops;european scops owl
wild garlic;pungent old world wild onion
viscum album;old world parasitic shrub having branching greenish stems with leathery leaves and waxy white glutinous berries. the traditional mistletoe of christmas
frangipanni;any of various tropical american deciduous shrubs or trees of the genus plumeriaving milky sap and showy fragrant funnel-shaped variously colored flowers
nitta tree;any of several old world tropical trees of the genus parkia having heads of red or yellow flowers followed by pods usually containing edible seeds and pulp
yellow dock;european dock with broad obtuse leaves and bitter rootstock common as a weed in north america
quahog;an edible american clam
puttyroot;north american orchid bearing a single leaf and yellowish-brown flowers
weimaraner;large breed of hound having a smooth grayish coat. originated in germany
dendroica coronata;similar to audubon's warbler
basket willow;eurasian osier having reddish or purple twigs and bark rich in tannin
fringed orchid;any of several summer-flowering american orchids distinguished by a fringed or lacerated lip
ophidian;limbless scaly elongate reptile. some are venomous
podilymbus podiceps;american grebe having a black-banded whitish bill
gray flounder;n carolina to florida and eastern gulf of mexico
canterbury bell;herb of colombia to peru having pale purple flowers
brown snail;serious garden pest having a brown shell with paler zigzag markings. nearly cosmopolitan
nephrops norvegicus;edible european lobster resembling the american lobster but slenderer
astrophyton muricatum;a variety of basket star
common matrimony vine;deciduous erect or spreading shrub with spiny branches and violet-purple flowers followed by orange-red berries. southeastern europe to china
dryopteris thelypteris pubescens;fern of northeastern north america
malvastrum coccineum;false mallow of western united states having racemose red flowers. sometimes placed in genus malvastrum
culcita dubia;resembles pteridium aquilinum. of queensland australia
capra ibex;wild goat of mountain areas of eurasia and north africa having large recurved horns
dioscorea paniculata;having a rhizome formerly dried and used to treat rheumatism or liver disorders
indian blackwood;east indian tree having a useful dark purple wood
ram s head;orchid of northern north america having a brownish-green flower and red-and-white lip suggestive of a ram's head
lima bean;bush bean plant cultivated especially in southern united states having small flat edible seeds
staffordshire terrier;american breed of muscular terriers with a short close-lying stiff coat
gempylid;snake mackerels. elongated oily-fleshed marine fishes resembling mackerels. found worldwide
harebell;perennial of northern hemisphere with slender stems and bell-shaped blue flowers
butterfly plant;any orchid of the genus oncidium: characterized by slender branching sprays of small yellow and brown flowers. often grown as houseplants
brake;large coarse fern often several feet high. essentially weed ferns. cosmopolitan
death angel;extremely poisonous usually white fungus with a prominent cup-shaped base. differs from edible agaricus only in its white gills
globe artichoke;mediterranean thistlelike plant widely cultivated for its large edible flower head
arkansas kingbird;a kingbird seen in western united states. head and back are pale gray and the breast is yellowish and the tail is black
asiatic shrew mole;shrew mole of eastern asia
turkey oak;large round-topped deciduous tree with spreading branches having narrow falcate leaves with deeply sinuate lobes and wood similar to that of northern red oaks. new jersey to illinois and southward
smilax rotundifolia;a very prickly woody vine of the eastern united states growing in tangled masses having tough round stems with shiny leathery leaves and small greenish flowers followed by clusters of inedible shiny black berries
silver beech;new zealand beech with usually pale silvery bark
winter cress;any plant of the genus barbarea: yellow-flowered eurasian cresses. widely cultivated for winter salad
macropus giganteus;very large grayish-brown australian kangaroo formerly abundant in open wooded areas
whitetip shark;large deep-water shark with white-tipped dorsal fin. worldwide distribution. most dangerous shark
western redbud;shrub of western united states having pink or crimson flowers. often forms thickets
potato wart fungus;fungus causing potato wart disease in potato tubers
heart cherry;any of several cultivated sweet cherries having sweet juicy heart-shaped fruits
bully tree;a hard-wooded tropical tree yielding balata gum and heavy red timber
saurian;any of various reptiles of the suborder sauria which includes lizards. in former classifications included also the crocodiles and dinosaurs
decumaria barbata;woody climber of southeastern united states having white flowers in compound terminal clusters
water beetle;any of numerous aquatic beetles usually having a smooth oval body and flattened hind legs for swimming
queensland grass cloth plant;australian plant of genus pipturus whose fiber is used in making cloth
white admiral;eurasian butterfly with brown wings and white markings
rock maple;maple of eastern and central north america having 3- to 5-lobed leaves and hard close-grained wood much used for cabinet work especially the curly-grained form. sap is chief source of maple syrup and maple sugar. many subspecies
basswood;any of various deciduous trees of the genus tilia heart-shaped leaves and drooping cymose clusters of yellowish often fragrant flowers. several yield valuable timber
prunus caroliniana;small flowering evergreen tree of southern united states
cardinal grosbeak;crested thick-billed north american finch having bright red plumage in the male
seed shrimp;tiny marine and freshwater crustaceans with a shrimp-like body enclosed in a bivalve shell
least sandpiper;smallest american sandpiper
giant lizard;the largest lizard in the world (10 feet). found on indonesian islands
rosefish;large fish of northern atlantic coasts of america and europe
pellitory of the wall;herb that grows in crevices having long narrow leaves and small pink apetalous flowers
old man s beard;vigorous deciduous climber of europe to afghanistan and lebanon having panicles of fragrant green-white flowers in summer and autumn
mountain bladder fern;fern of rocky mountainous areas of hemisphere
ground beetle;predacious shining black or metallic terrestrial beetle that destroys many injurious insects
luffa cylindrica;the bathroom loofah
stenotomus chrysops;found in atlantic coastal waters of north america from south carolina to maine. esteemed as a panfish
jaboncillo;evergreen of tropical america having pulpy fruit containing saponin which was used as soap by native americans
barrenwort;slow-growing creeping plant with semi-evergreen leaves on erect wiry stems. used as ground cover
green frog;similar to bullfrog. found in or near marshes and ponds. of united states and canada
american elk;large north american deer with large much-branched antlers
lip fern;any of various terrestrial ferns of the genus cheilanthes. cosmopolitan in arid and semi-arid temperate or tropical regions
agama;small terrestrial lizard of warm regions of the old world
comptonia asplenifolia;deciduous shrub of eastern north america with scented fernlike leaves and catkin-like heads of tiny white flowers
italian greyhound;a toy dog developed from the greyhound
pangolin;toothless mammal of southern africa and asia having a body covered with horny scales and a long snout for feeding on ants and termites
star nosed mole;amphibious mole of eastern north america having pink fleshy tentacles around the nose
windmill;a mill that is powered by the wind
atlantic tripletail;tripletail found from cape cod to northern south america
antheraea pernyi;a chinese moth that produces a brownish silk
tom;male turkey
san jose scale;small east asian insect naturalized in the united states that damages fruit trees
cape tulip;spectacular plant having large prostrate leaves barred in reddish-purple and flowers with a clump of long yellow stamens in a coral-red cup of fleshy bracts. south africa
ulmus americana;large ornamental tree with graceful gradually spreading branches common in eastern north america
mustela frenata;the common american weasel distinguished by large size and black-tipped tail
asian crocodile;estuarine crocodile of eastern asia and pacific islands
frogmouth;insectivorous bird of australia and southeastern asia having a wide frog-like mouth
quarry;animal hunted or caught for food
homarus americanus;lobster of atlantic coast of america
tortoiseshell butterfly;brilliantly colored. larvae feed on nettles
gastroboletus scabrosus;a dingy yellow brown fungus with a rough stalk that superficially resembles a bolete
weeping love grass;perennial south african grass having densely clumped flimsy stems. introduced into united states especially for erosion control
cuban bast;erect forest tree of cuba and jamaica having variably hairy leaves and orange-yellow or orange-red flowers. yields a moderately dense timber for cabinetwork and gunstocks
garfish;primitive predaceous north american fish covered with hard scales and having long jaws with needle-like teeth
star jasmine;evergreen chinese woody climber with shiny dark green leaves and intensely fragrant white flowers
coati;omnivorous mammal of central and south america
european black alder;medium-sized tree with brown-black bark and woody fruiting catkins. leaves are hairy beneath
decumaria barbara;woody climber of southeastern united states having white flowers in compound terminal clusters
paracheirodon axelrodi;small bright red and blue aquarium fish from streams in brazil and columbia
gray snapper;found in shallow waters off the coast of florida
setaria glauca;common weedy and bristly grass found in nearly all temperate areas
sambucus pubens;common north american shrub or small tree
burrawong;large attractive palmlike evergreen cycad of new south wales
flying squirrel;nocturnal phalangers that move with gliding leaps using parachute-like folds of skin along the sides of the body
onchorynchus kisutch;small salmon of north pacific coasts and the great lakes
spraguea umbellatum;pink clusters of densely packed flowers on prostrate stems resemble upturned pads of cats' feet. grow in coniferous forests of western north america. sometimes placed in genus calyptridium
firmiana simplex;deciduous tree widely grown in southern united states as an ornamental for its handsome maplelike foliage and long racemes of yellow-green flowers followed by curious leaflike pods
polliwog;a larval frog or toad
creeping st john s wort;creeping evergreen shrub with bright yellow star-shaped summer flowers. useful as ground cover
sea pea;wild pea of seashores of north temperate zone having tough roots and purple flowers and useful as a sand binder
allium cepa viviparum;type of perennial onion grown chiefly as a curiosity or for early salad onions. having bulbils that replace the flowers
broccoli rabe;plant grown for its pungent edible leafy shoots
sauvignon grape;small blue-black grape of medoc region of france highly prized in winemaking
dika;african tree with edible yellow mangolike fruit valued for its oil-rich seed and hardy green termite-resistant wood
pandanus tectorius;polynesian screw pine
laughing jackass;almost extinct owl of new zealand
davallia pyxidata;a hare's-foot fern of the genus davallia
vaccinium stamineum;small branching blueberry common in marshy areas of the eastern united states having greenish or yellowish unpalatable berries reputedly eaten by deer
vetchworm;larva of a noctuid moth. highly destructive to esp. corn and cotton and tomato crops
stegosaur;herbivorous ornithischian dinosaur with a row of bony plates along its back and a spiked tail probably used as a weapon
arizona elegans;nocturnal burrowing snake of western united states with shiny tan scales
atlantic ridley;gray sea turtle of the atlantic and gulf coasts of north america
black and tan terrier;breed of short-haired black-and-tan terrier developed in manchester england
crataegus pedicellata;american red-fruited hawthorn with dense corymbs of pink-red flowers
satureja douglasii;trailing perennial evergreen herb of northwestern united states with small white flowers. used medicinally
st. barbara s herb;any plant of the genus barbarea: yellow-flowered eurasian cresses. widely cultivated for winter salad
pellaea mucronata;cliff brake of california and baja california having purple-brown leafstalks
bothrops atrops;large extremely venomous pit viper of central and south america
chimaphila corymbosa;eurasian herb with white or pinkish flowers in a terminal corymb
european red elder;eurasian shrub
new world vulture;large birds of prey superficially similar to old world vultures
camas;any of several plants of the genus camassia. north and south america
grain moth;moth whose larvae feed on grain
anteater;small australian marsupial having long snout and strong claws for feeding on termites. nearly extinct
nanomia;small creatures resembling pieces of fuzzy rope. each with a cluster of swimming bells serving as the head and long elastic tentacles for drawing in prey
ratbite fever bacterium;a bacterium causing rat-bite fever
polar bear;white bear of arctic regions
trompillo;weedy nightshade with silvery foliage and violet or blue or white flowers. roundish berry widely used to curdle milk. central united states to south america
false vampire;any new or old world carnivorous bat erroneously thought to suck blood but in fact feeding on insects
widgeon;freshwater duck of eurasia and north africa related to mallards and teals
short toed eagle;any of numerous large old wold hawks intermediate in some respects between typical hawks and typical eagles
white broom;low european broom having trifoliate leaves and yellowish-white flowers
abudefduf saxatilis;large blue-gray black-striped damselfish. nearly worldwide
snailfish;small tadpole-shaped cold-water fishes with pelvic fins forming a sucker. related to lumpfish
viburnum prunifolium;upright deciduous shrub having frosted dark-blue fruit. east and east central north america
pouched rat;burrowing rodent of the family geomyidae having large external cheek pouches. of central america and southwestern north america
common nardoo;australian clover fern
storm petrel;any of various small petrels having dark plumage with paler underparts
hexanchus griseus;large primitive shark widely distributed in warm seas
american pulsatilla;short hairy perennial with early spring blue-violet or lilac flowers. north america and siberia
white faced hornet;north american hornet
common roundworm;intestinal parasite of humans and pigs
laurel cherry;small flowering evergreen tree of southern united states
douroucouli;nocturnal monkey of central and south america with large eyes and thick fur
alpine besseya;small pale plant with dense spikes of pale bluish-violet flowers. of high cold meadows from wyoming and utah to new mexico
citron tree;thorny evergreen small tree or shrub of india widely cultivated for its large lemonlike fruits that have thick warty rind
old english sheepdog;large sheepdog with a profuse shaggy blue-gray-and-white coat and short tail. believed to trace back to roman occupation of britain
etropus rimosus;n carolina to florida and eastern gulf of mexico
mate;the partner of an animal (especially a sexual partner). 'he loved the mare and all her mates'. 'camels hate leaving their mates'
trichys lipura;porcupine of borneo and sumatra having short spines and a long tail
longheaded thimbleweed;thimbleweed of northern north america
northern pin oak;small to medium deciduous oak of east central north america. leaves have sharply pointed lobes
rhus radicans;climbing plant common in eastern and central united states with ternate leaves and greenish flowers followed by white berries. yields an irritating oil that causes a rash on contact
staghorn coral;large branching coral resembling antlers
contopus virens;small olive-colored woodland flycatchers of eastern north america
bonxie;gull-like jaeger of northern seas
agamid;a lizard of the family agamidae
bull;uncastrated adult male of domestic cattle
silver linden;large tree native to eastern europe and asia minor having leaves with white tomentum on the under side. widely cultivated as an ornamental
field sparrow;common north american finch of brushy pasturelands
leucogenes leontopodium;perennial herb closely resembling european edelweiss. new zealand
salmon trout;speckled trout of european rivers. introduced in north america
kangaroo jerboa;brush-tailed rat kangaroo
silvertop palmetto;small stocky fan palm of southern florida and cuba
curly grass fern;rare small fern of northeastern north america having numerous slender spiraling fronds and forming dense tufts
american basswood;large american shade tree with large dark green leaves and rounded crown
populus trichocarpa;cottonwood of western north america with dark green leaves shining above and rusty or silvery beneath
engelmannia;common erect hairy perennial of plains and prairies of southern and central united states having sunflowerlike flowers
redhorse sucker;north american sucker with reddish fins
oscine;passerine bird having specialized vocal apparatus
elm tree;any of various trees of the genus ulmus: important timber or shade trees
finch;any of numerous small songbirds with short stout bills adapted for crushing seeds
rocket cress;noxious cress with yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus sisymbrium
pond skater;long-legged bug that skims about on the surface of water
scrubbird;small fast-running australian bird resembling a wren and frequenting brush or scrub
begonia feastii;rhizomatous begonia with roundish fleshy leaves reddish colored beneath
archeopteryx;extinct primitive toothed bird of the upper jurassic having a long feathered tail and hollow bones. usually considered the most primitive of all birds
tamarao;small buffalo of mindoro in the philippines
syringa vulgaris;large european lilac naturalized in north america having heart-shaped ovate leaves and large panicles of highly fragrant lilac or white flowers
pieris japonica;broad-leaved evergreen asiatic shrub with glossy leaves and drooping clusters of white flowers
legume;an erect or climbing bean or pea plant of the family leguminosae
agaric;a saprophytic fungus of the order agricales having an umbrellalike cap with gills on the underside
crossbred;esp an animal produced by a cross between two pure breeds
ozark chinquapin;shrubby tree closely related to the allegheny chinkapin but with larger leaves. southern midwest united states
festuca elatior;grass with wide flat leaves cultivated in europe and america for permanent pasture and hay and for lawns
packhorse;a horse used as a pack animal
butterfly fish;small usually brilliantly colored tropical marine fishes having narrow deep bodies with large broad fins. found worldwide
brambling;eurasian finch
eelpout;marine eellike mostly bottom-dwelling fishes of northern seas
molly;popular aquarium fish
manna lichen;any of several old world semicrustaceous or shrubby lecanoras that roll up and are blown about over african and arabian deserts and used as food by people and animals
feline;any of various lithe-bodied round-headed fissiped mammals many with retractile claws
crossbill;finch with a bill whose tips cross when closed
winter s bark;south american evergreen tree yielding winter's bark and a light soft wood similar to basswood
kaffir boom;small semi-evergreen broad-spreading tree of eastern south africa with orange-scarlet flowers and small coral-red seeds. yields a light soft wood used for fence posts or shingles
adam s needle;yucca with long stiff leaves having filamentlike appendages
endamoeba histolytica;the parasitic ameba that causes amebic dysentery in human beings
penny grass;foetid eurasian weed having round flat pods. naturalized throughout north america
rattlesnake root;herb of central and southern europe having purple florets
beard worm;slender animal with tentacles and a tubelike outer covering. lives on the deep ocean bottom
sciurus carolinensis;common medium-large squirrel of eastern north america. now introduced into england
pinon pine;small 2- or 3-needled pinon of mexico and southern texas
himalaya honeysuckle;shrub honeysuckle with drooping spikes of purplish flowers
silver maple;a common north american maple tree. 5-lobed leaves are light green above and silvery white beneath. source of hard close-grained but brittle light-brown wood
cetacean mammal;large aquatic carnivorous mammal with fin-like forelimbs no hind limbs, including: whales. dolphins. porpoises. narwhals
myosotis scorpiodes;small perennial herb having bright blue or white flowers
devilfish;bottom-living cephalopod having a soft oval body with eight long tentacles
lindheimera texana;texas annual with coarsely pinnatifid leaves. cultivated for its showy radiate yellow flower heads
stachys palustris;perennial herb with an odorless rhizome widespread in moist places in northern hemisphere
burn plant;very short-stemmed plant with thick leaves with soothing mucilaginous juice. leaves develop spiny margins with maturity. native to mediterranean region. grown widely in tropics and as houseplants
female;an animal that produces gametes (ova) that can be fertilized by male gametes (spermatozoa)
lemur catta;small lemur having its tail barred with black
calamagrostic quadriseta;tall australian reedlike grass sometimes used for hay
dianthus plumarius;european pink cultivated for its very fragrant pink or rosy flowers
whooping crane;rare north american crane having black-and-white plumage and a trumpeting call
protozoon;any of diverse minute acellular or unicellular organisms usually nonphotosynthetic
rosebay;late-spring-blooming rhododendron of eastern north america having rosy to pink-purple flowers
vinegar worm;minute eelworm that feeds on organisms that cause fermentation in e.g. vinegar
openbill;stork with a grooved bill whose upper and lower parts touch only at the base and tip
cardamom;rhizomatous herb of india having aromatic seeds used as seasoning
ommastrephes;extremely active cylindrical squid with short strong arms and large rhombic terminal fins
kinkajou;arboreal fruit-eating mammal of tropical america with a long prehensile tail
cardamon;rhizomatous herb of india having aromatic seeds used as seasoning
pomme de prairie;densely hairy perennial of central north america having edible tuberous roots
wolf spider;ground spider that hunts its prey instead of using a web
evergreen thorn;evergreen hawthorn of southeastern europe
lady palm;any of several small palms of the genus rhapis. cultivated as houseplants
vaccinium macrocarpon;trailing red-fruited plant
marsh harrier;old world harrier frequenting marshy regions
quercus lobata;tall graceful deciduous california oak having leathery leaves and slender pointed acorns
pisum sativum arvense;variety of pea plant native to the mediterranean region and north africa and widely grown especially for forage
american dogwood;common north american shrub with reddish purple twigs and white flowers
wild cherry tree;an uncultivated cherry tree
eryngium maritimum;european evergreen eryngo with twisted spiny leaves naturalized on united states east coast. roots formerly used as an aphrodisiac
ring snake;any of numerous small nonvenomous north american snakes with a yellow or orange ring around the neck
wilson s phalarope;breeds on the northern great plains of canada
shepherd s purse;white-flowered annual european herb bearing triangular notched pods. nearly cosmopolitan as an introduced weed
hydrangea petiolaris;deciduous climber with aerial roots having large flat flower heads
daisywheel printer;a printer that uses a daisy print wheel
mesophytic plant;land plant growing in surroundings having an average supply of water. compare xerophyte and hydrophyte
soap tree;tall arborescent yucca of southwestern united states
morello;any of several cultivated sour cherry trees bearing fruit with dark skin and juice
jiqui;cuban timber tree with hard wood very resistant to moisture
burweed marsh elder;tall annual marsh elder common in moist rich soil is central north america that can cause contact dermatitis. produces much pollen that is a major cause of hay fever
ocotillo;desert shrub of southwestern united states and mexico having slender naked spiny branches that after the rainy season put forth foliage and clusters of red flowers
fishtail palm;attractive east indian palm having distinctive bipinnate foliage
red sandalwood;tree of india and east indies yielding a hard fragrant timber prized for cabinetwork and dark red heartwood used as a dyewood
bastard pimpernel;weedy plant having short dry chafflike leaves
polyanthus;florists' primroses. considered a complex hybrid derived from oxlip, cowslip, and common primrose
mentzelia lindleyi;annual grown especially for its fragrant golden nocturnal flowers
sterculia;any tree of the genus sterculia
andryala;any plant of the genus andryala having milky sap and heads of bright yellow flowers
jamberry;annual of mexico and southern united states having edible purplish viscid fruit resembling small tomatoes
erodium moschatum;low annual european herb naturalized in america. similar to alfilaria
bronc;an unbroken or imperfectly broken mustang
pelican;large long-winged warm-water seabird having a large bill with a distensible pouch for fish
feverfew;bushy aromatic european perennial herb having clusters of buttonlike white-rayed flower heads. valued traditionally for medicinal uses. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
parr;the young of various fishes
dasyurid marsupial;small carnivorous nocturnal marsupials of australia and tasmania
oregon crab apple;small tree or shrub of western united states having white blossoms and tiny yellow or red fruit
bay rum tree;west indian tree. source of bay rum
western silvery aster;a variety of aster
california white oak;tall graceful deciduous california oak having leathery leaves and slender pointed acorns
arum palaestinum;ornamental plant of middle east cultivated for its dark purple spathe
whooper;common old world swan noted for its whooping call
coon;north american raccoon
passer domesticus;small hardy brown-and-gray bird native to europe
king vulture;large black-and-white vulture of south and central america have colorful wattles and wartlike protuberances on head and neck
heracleum sphondylium;tall coarse plant having thick stems and cluster of white to purple flowers
spiraea prunifolia;shrub having copious small white flowers in spring
yellow pea;western united states bushy herb having yellow pealike flowers
scomberomorus sierra;a spanish mackerel of western north america
tamandua tetradactyla;small toothless anteater with prehensile tale and four-clawed forelimbs. of tropical south and central america
schlumbergera buckleyi;epiphytic cactus of brazilian ancestry widely cultivated as a houseplant having jointed flat segments and usually rose-purple flowers that bloom in winter
japanese pagoda tree;handsome round-headed deciduous tree having compound dark green leaves and profuse panicles of fragrant creamy-white flowers. china and japan
buzzard;the common european short-winged hawk
germander speedwell;old world plant with axillary racemes of blue-and-white flowers
scotch thistle;biennial eurasian white hairy thistle having pale purple flowers. naturalized in north america
chinaberry;tree of northern india and china having purple blossoms and small inedible yellow fruits. naturalized in the southern united states as a shade tree
turtle;any of various aquatic and land reptiles having a bony shell and flipper-like limbs for swimming
dama dama;small eurasian deer
bougainvillea glabra;brazilian vine that tends to flower continuously
thymus serpyllum;aromatic dwarf shrub common on banks and hillsides in europe. naturalized in united states
hypericum calycinum;creeping evergreen shrub with bright yellow star-shaped summer flowers. useful as ground cover
andropogon furcatus;tall grass with smooth bluish leaf sheaths grown for hay in the united states
bonito;any of various scombroid fishes intermediate in size and characteristics between mackerels and tunas
lily turf;asiatic perennial tufted herb with grasslike evergreen foliage and clusters of dark mauve grapelike flowers. grown as ground cover
boa constrictor;very large boa of tropical america and west indies
snap willow;large willow tree with stiff branches that are easily broken
chigger;larval mite that sucks the blood of vertebrates including human beings causing intense irritation
soybean plant;erect bushy hairy annual herb having trifoliate leaves and purple to pink flowers. extensively cultivated for food and forage and soil improvement but especially for its nutritious oil-rich seeds. native to asia
trogium pulsatorium;a variety of booklouse
parasitic plant;plant living on another plant and obtaining from it organic nutriment
prunus pumila;small straggling american cherry growing on sandy soil and having minute scarcely edible purplish-black fruit
desert olive;spiny branching deciduous shrub of southwestern united states having clusters of insignificant yellow-white flowers appearing before leaves followed by attractive black berrylike fruits
loligo;somewhat flattened cylindrical squid
habenaria lacera;fringed orchid of the eastern united states having a greenish flower with the lip deeply lacerate
virginia crownbeard;tall perennial herb having clusters of white flowers. the eastern united states
bluepoint;small edible oyster typically from the south shore of long island
senecio doublasii;bluish-green bushy leafy plant covered with close white wool and bearing branched clusters of yellow flower heads. southwestern united states. toxic to range livestock
southern beech;any of various beeches of the southern hemisphere having small usually evergreen leaves
blephilia hirsuta;a variety of wood mint
broad leaved plantain;common european perennial naturalized worldwide. a troublesome weed
whiteface;hardy english breed of dairy cattle raised extensively in united states
bulrush;tall marsh plant with pokerlike seed heads that explode when mature shedding large quantities of down. its long flat leaves are used for making mats and chair seats. of north america, europe, asia and north africa
psidium guineense;south american tree having fruit similar to the true guava
sunrose;any plant of the genus helianthemum. vigorous plants of stony alpine meadows and dry scrub regions
blue pickerel;variety inhabiting the great lakes
acroclinium roseum;flower of southwestern australia having bright pink daisylike papery flowers. grown for drying
st. augustine grass;low mat-forming grass of southern united states and tropical america. grown as a lawn grass
castilleja sessiliflora;hairy plant with pinkish flowers. great plains to northern mexico
euphorbia corollata;common perennial united states spurge having showy white petallike bracts
desert holly;handsome low saltbush of arid southwestern united states and mexico having blue-green prickly-edged leaves often used for christmas decoration
agropyron cristatum;eurasian grass grown in united states great plains area for forage and erosion control
white poplar;a poplar that is widely cultivated in the united states. has white bark and leaves with whitish undersurfaces
corn campion;european annual having large trumpet-shaped reddish-purple flowers and poisonous seed. a common weed in grainfields and beside roadways. naturalized in america
bluethroat;songbird of northern europe and asia
cyperus alternifolius;african sedge widely cultivated as an ornamental water plant for its terminal umbrellalike cluster of slender grasslike leaves
muskwood;musk-scented shrub or tree of southern and southeastern australia having creamy-yellow flower heads
sea trout;silvery marine variety of brown trout that migrates to fresh water to spawn
buttonquail;small quail-like terrestrial bird of southern eurasia and north africa that lacks a hind toe. classified with wading birds but inhabits grassy plains
silky cornel;shrub of eastern north america having purplish stems and blue fruit
hyssop loosestrife;annual with small solitary pink flowers. originally of europe but widely naturalized in moist areas
hardinggrass;perennial grass of australia and south africa. introduced in north america as forage grass
periwinkle;chiefly trailing poisonous plants with blue flowers
setaria viridis;european foxtail naturalized in north america. often a troublesome weed
hairtail;long-bodied marine fishes having a long whiplike scaleless body and sharp teeth. closely related to snake_mackerel
fissipedia;in some classifications considered a suborder of carnivora
clostridium botulinum;anaerobic bacterium producing botulin the toxin that causes botulism
rock snake;very large python of tropical and southern africa
yard long bean;south american bean having very long succulent pods
false azalea;straggling shrub of northwestern north america having foliage with a bluish tinge and umbels of small bell-shaped flowers
himantopus mexicanus;stilt of southwestern united states to northern south america having black plumage extending from the head down the back of the neck
dobbin;a quiet plodding horse
boneset;european herb having small white, pink or purple flowers. naturalized as a weed in north america
lilac;any of various plants of the genus syringa having large panicles of usually fragrant flowers
thamnophis sauritus;slender yellow-striped north american garter snake. prefers wet places
monarda citriodora;an annual horsemint of central and western united states and northern mexico
liverleaf;any of several plants of the genus hepatica having 3-lobed leaves and white or pinkish flowers in early spring. of moist and mossy subalpine woodland areas of north temperate regions
pacific bottlenose dolphin;a bottlenose dolphin found in the pacific ocean
springer;a cow about to give birth
african green monkey;common savannah monkey with greenish-gray back and yellow tail
barred owl;large owl of eastern north america having its breast and abdomen streaked with brown
basset hound;smooth-haired breed of hound with short legs and long ears
bahia piassava;brazilian palm yielding fibers used in making ropes, mats, and brushes
canna lily;plants grown for their large bright yellow to red flowers
hungarian grass;coarse drought-resistant annual grass grown for grain, hay and forage in europe and asia and chiefly for forage and hay in united states
swamp plant;a semi-aquatic plant that grows in soft wet land. most are monocots: sedge, sphagnum, grasses, cattails, etc. possibly heath
chaetodipterus faber;deep-bodied disk-shaped food fish of warmer western atlantic coastal waters
encephalartos caffer;south african cycad. the farinaceous pith of the fruit used as food
prickleback;small elongate fishes of shallow northern seas. a long dorsal fin consists entirely of spines
heal all;common woodland herb of temperate north america having yellow nodding flowers and small round blue fruits
coral fungus;any of numerous fungi of the family clavariaceae often brightly colored that grow in often intricately branched clusters like coral
lambertia formosa;erect bushy shrub of eastern australia having terminal clusters of red flowers yielding much nectar
wild peach;large much-branched shrub grown primarily for its evergreen foliage
dog s tooth violet;perennial woodland spring-flowering plant. widely cultivated
ulmus laevis;eurasian elm closely resembling the american elm. thrives in a moist environment
agaricus campestris;common edible mushroom found naturally in moist open soil. the cultivated mushroom of commerce
common bean;the common annual twining or bushy bean plant grown for its edible seeds or pods
daisy bush;any of various mostly australian attractively shaped shrubs of the genus olearia grown for their handsome and sometimes fragrant evergreen foliage and profusion of daisy flowers with white or purple or blue rays
sleeping hibiscus;any of various plants of the genus malvaviscus having brilliant bell-shaped drooping flowers like incompletely opened hibiscus flowers
old witchgrass;north american grass with slender brushy panicles. often a weed on cultivated land
sea mew;the common gull of eurasia and northeastern north america
thin leaved stringybark;stringybark having white wood
green spleenwort;small often many-crowned fern with slim green fronds. widely distributed in cool parts of northern hemisphere
snail bean;perennial tropical american vine cultivated for its racemes of showy yellow and purple flowers having the corolla keel coiled like a snail shell. sometimes placed in genus phaseolus
costmary;tansy-scented eurasian perennial herb with buttonlike yellow flowers. used as potherb or salad green and sometimes for potpourri or tea or flavoring. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
brown soft scale;pest on citrus trees
robin;small old world songbird with a reddish breast
pyrrhuloxia sinuata;crested gray-and-red bird of southwest united states and mexico
new york fern;slender shield fern of moist woods of eastern north america. sometimes placed in genus dryopteris
euterpe oleracea;brazilian palm of genus euterpe whose leaf buds are eaten like cabbage when young
pieris floribunda;ornamental evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having small white bell-shaped flowers
bearwood;shrubby tree of united states pacific coast. yields cascara sagrada
physalis philadelphica;mexican annual naturalized in eastern north america having yellow to purple edible fruit resembling small tomatoes
seedling;young plant or tree grown from a seed
ascaris lumbricoides;intestinal parasite of humans and pigs
cole;a hardy cabbage with coarse curly leaves that do not form a head
lavandula officinalis;aromatic mediterranean shrub widely cultivated for its lilac flowers which are dried and used in sachets
greenwing;common teal of eurasia and north america
coriander plant;old world herb with aromatic parsleylike leaves and seed
papaver orientale;commonly cultivated asiatic perennial poppy having stiff heavily haired leaves and bright scarlet or pink to orange flowers
pomfret;deep-bodied sooty-black pelagic spiny-finned fish of north atlantic and north pacific. valued for food
uruguay potato;south american potato vine
scrub palmetto;small hardy clump-forming spiny palm of southern united states
house mouse;brownish-gray old world mouse now a common household pest worldwide
climbing hydrangea;deciduous climber with aerial roots having white to creamy flowers in fairly flat heads
clustered poppy mallow;densely hairy perennial having mostly triangular basal leaves and rose-purple flowers in panicled clusters
balanus balanoides;barnacle that attaches to rocks esp. in intertidal zones
round whitefish;bronze-backed whitefish of northern north america and siberia
hakea laurina;tall straggling shrub with large globose crimson-yellow flowers. western australia
protohippus;pliocene horse approaching donkeys in size
auriparus flaviceps;very small yellow-headed titmouse of western north america
sabinea carinalis;small dominican tree bearing masses of large crimson flowers before the fine pinnate foliage emerges
lonicera tatarica;a honeysuckle shrub of southern russia to central asia
pieris rapae;small widely distributed form
hawk owl;gray-and-white diurnal hawk-like owl of northern parts of the northern hemisphere
maiden blue eyed mary;small widely branching western plant with tiny blue-and-white flowers. british columbia to ontario and south to california and colorado
harvest lice;erect perennial old world herb of dry grassy habitats
boletus variipes;an edible (but not choice) fungus found on soil under hardwoods. has a dry convex cap with whitish under surface and a reticulate stalk
eleocharis acicularis;fine-leaved aquatic spike rush. popular as aerator for aquariums
fritillaria pluriflora;california herb with pinkish purple flowers
chinese water chestnut;chinese sedge yielding edible bulb-shaped tubers
plane;a power tool for smoothing or shaping wood
yellow jasmine;poisonous woody evergreen vine of southeastern united states having fragrant yellow funnel-shaped flowers
horsefly;winged fly parasitic on horses
juniper;desert shrub of syria and arabia having small white flowers. constitutes the juniper of the old testament. sometimes placed in genus genista
tyrannosaurus;large carnivorous bipedal dinosaur having enormous teeth with knifelike serrations. may have been a scavenger rather than an active predator. upper cretaceous. north america
hydrophytic plant;a plant that grows partly or wholly in water whether rooted in the mud, as a lotus, or floating without anchorage, as the water hyacinth
neomys anomalus;a type of water shrew
false chamomile;any of various autumn-flowering perennials having white or pink to purple flowers that resemble asters. wild in moist soils from new jersey to florida and texas
boletus edulis;a edible and choice fungus. has a convex cap that is slightly viscid when fresh and moist but soon dries and a thick bulbous tan stalk
sciurus vulgaris;common reddish-brown squirrel of europe and parts of asia
cone pepper;plant bearing erect pungent conical red or yellow or purple fruits. sometimes grown as an ornamental
cankerworm;green caterpillar of a geometrid moth. pest of various fruit and shade trees
digitigrade mammal;an animal that walks so that only the toes touch the ground as e.g. dogs and cats and horses
procaryote;a unicellular organism having cells lacking membrane-bound nuclei. bacteria are the prime example but also included are blue-green algae and actinomycetes and mycoplasma
chilean cedar;small well-shaped south american evergreen having coppery bark and pretty foliage
anemia adiantifolia;fern of florida and west indies and central america with rhizome densely clad in grown hairs
mother carey s hen;medium-sized storm petrel
euarctos americanus;brown to black north american bear. smaller and less ferocious than the brown bear
new world chat;birds having a chattering call
easter cactus;spring-blooming south american cactus with oblong joints and coral-red flowers. sometimes placed in genus schlumbergera
billfish;giant warm-water game fish having a prolonged and rounded toothless upper jaw
raven;large black bird with a straight bill and long wedge-shaped tail
raffia palm;a large feather palm of africa and madagascar having very long pinnatisect fronds yielding a strong commercially important fiber from its leafstalks
brachystegia speciformis;small shrubby african tree having compound leaves and racemes of small fragrant green flowers
xerophilous plant;plant adapted for life with a limited supply of water. compare hydrophyte and mesophyte
cryptoprocta;large primitive catlike carnivores inhabiting forests of madagascar
gold fern;fern of west indies and south america having fronds with bright golden-yellow undersides
cobra;venomous asiatic and african elapid snakes that can expand the skin of the neck into a hood
hobby;small old world falcon formerly trained and flown at small birds
oxytropis lambertii;tufted locoweed of southwestern united states having purple or pink to white flowers
pickerel weed;american plant having spikes of blue flowers and growing in shallow water of streams and ponds
mock orange;shrubby thorny deciduous tree of southeastern united states with white flowers and small black drupaceous fruit
brazilian ironwood;thornless tree yielding heavy wood
lecanora;any lichen of the genus lecanora. some used in dyeing. some used for food
bogbean;perennial plant of europe and america having racemes of white or purplish flowers and intensely bitter trifoliate leaves. often rooting at water margin and spreading across the surface
bracken;large coarse fern often several feet high. essentially weed ferns. cosmopolitan
black pea;perennial of europe and north africa. foliage turns black in drying
prunus insititia;small wild or half-domesticated eurasian plum bearing small ovoid fruit in clusters
farm horse;a quiet plodding horse
tabasco pepper;plant bearing very hot medium-sized oblong red peppers. grown principally in the gulf coast states for production of hot sauce
bitterweed;any of numerous chiefly north american weedy plants constituting the genus ambrosia that produce highly allergenic pollen responsible for much hay fever and asthma
scorpaenid;any of numerous carnivorous usually bottom-dwelling warm-water marine fishes found worldwide but most abundant in the pacific
american chestnut;large tree found from maine to alabama
blue belly;common western lizard. seen on logs or rocks
blue mountain tea;goldenrod of eastern america (especially blue mountains of pennsylvania) having aromatic leaves from which a medicinal tea is made
colugo;arboreal nocturnal mammal of southeast asia and the philippines resembling a lemur and having a fold of skin on each side from neck to tail that is used for long gliding leaps
birch;any betulaceous tree or shrub of the genus betula having a thin peeling bark
new world beaver;a variety of beaver found in almost all areas of north america except florida
chat;songbirds having a chattering call
pupa;an insect in the inactive stage of development (when it is not feeding) intermediate between larva and adult
arctic wolf;wolf of arctic north america having white fur and a black-tipped tail
proboscis worm;soft unsegmented marine worms having a threadlike proboscis and the ability to stretch and contract
patas;reddish long-tailed monkey of west africa
piggyback plant;vigorous perennial herb with flowers in erect racemes and having young plants develop at the junction of a leaf blade and the leafstalk
aotus trivirgatus;nocturnal monkey of central and south america with large eyes and thick fur
bittersweet nightshade;poisonous perennial old world vine having violet flowers and oval coral-red berries. widespread weed in north america
gomphothere;extinct elephants of central and south america. of the miocene and pleistocene
lungfish;air-breathing fish having an elongated body and fleshy paired fins. certain species construct mucus-lined mud coverings in which to survive drought
ostrya virginiana;medium-sized hop hornbeam of eastern north america
nut grass;a widely distributed perennial sedge having small edible nutlike tubers
giant fir;lofty fir of the pacific coast of northwestern america having long curving branches and deep green leaves
bird;warm-blooded egg-laying vertebrates characterized by feathers and forelimbs modified as wings
aloe vera;very short-stemmed plant with thick leaves with soothing mucilaginous juice. leaves develop spiny margins with maturity. native to mediterranean region. grown widely in tropics and as houseplants
winged pea;sprawling european annual having a 4-winged edible pod
borage;hairy blue-flowered european annual herb long used in herbal medicine and eaten raw as salad greens or cooked like spinach
pedunculate oak;medium to large deciduous european oak having smooth leaves with rounded lobes. yields hard strong light-colored wood
angelfish;sharks with broad flat bodies and winglike pectoral fins but that swim the way sharks do
salad burnet;european garden herb with purple-tinged flowers and leaves that are sometimes used for salads
dragon s head;american herb having sharply serrate lanceolate leaves and spikes of double-lipped blue to violet flowers
caesalpinia bonducella;tropical tree with large prickly pods of seeds that resemble beans and are used for jewelry and rosaries
xerographic printer;a page printer that uses the xerographic process
hampshire down;british breed of hornless dark-faced mutton sheep
moosewood;maple of eastern north america with striped bard and large 2-lobed leaves clear yellow in autumn
uta stansburiana;one of the most abundant lizards in the arid western united states
pile driver;a machine that drives piling into the ground
surfperch;small to medium-sized shallow-water fishes of the north american pacific coast
narrow leaved flame flower;similar to talinum aurantiacum but with narrower leaves and yellow-orange flowers. southwestern united states
equus kiang;wild ass of tibet and mongolia
tailflower;any of various tropical american plants cultivated for their showy foliage and flowers
atriplex mexicana;eurasian aromatic oak-leaved goosefoot with many yellow-green flowers. naturalized north america
hibiscus elatus;erect forest tree of cuba and jamaica having variably hairy leaves and orange-yellow or orange-red flowers. yields a moderately dense timber for cabinetwork and gunstocks
large cranberry;trailing red-fruited plant
geum alleppicum strictum;erect subshrub with deep yellow flowers. europe and asia and north america
clematis viorna;scandent subshrub of southeastern united states having large red-purple bell-shaped flowers with leathery recurved sepals
melagueta pepper;west african plant bearing pungent peppery seeds
caltha palustris;swamp plant of europe and north america having bright yellow flowers resembling buttercups
panthera uncia;large feline of upland central asia having long thick whitish fur
boykinia occidentalis;plant with leaves mostly at the base and openly branched clusters of small white flowers. western north america
mainframe computer;a large digital computer serving 100-400 users and occupying a special air-conditioned room
wheat rust;rust fungus that attacks wheat
angora;a long-haired breed similar to the persian cat
japan clover;an annual of tropical asia naturalized in united states
hog nosed badger;se asian badger with a snout like a pig
queensland kauri;australian timber tree resembling the kauri but having wood much lighter in weight and softer
king protea;south african shrub whose flowers when open are cup- or goblet-shaped resembling globe artichokes
cat s feet;low-growing perennial herb having leaves with whitish down and clusters of small white flowers
prairie coneflower;plant similar to the mexican hat coneflower. from british columbia to new mexico
pea weevil;larvae live in and feed on seeds of the pea plant
artemisia filifolia;silver-haired shrub of central and southern united states and mexico. a troublesome weed on rangelands
white dipladenia;shrubby climber having glossy leaves and white funnel-shaped flowers with yellow throats
pteretis struthiopteris;tall fern of northern temperate regions having graceful arched fronds and sporophylls resembling ostrich plumes
vermillion rockfish;commercially important fish of the north american pacific coast
western paper birch;birch of western united states resembling the paper birch but having brownish bark
kei apple;vigorous south african spiny shrub grown for its round yellow juicy edible fruits
francis turbine;a type of hydroelectric turbine
meerkat;south african mongoose-like viverrine having a face like a lemur and only four toes
begonia dregei;tuberous or semi-tuberous south african begonia having shallowly lobed ovate leaves and small white flowers
bedbug;bug of temperate regions that infests esp. beds and feeds on human blood
florida strap fern;common epiphytic or sometimes terrestrial fern having pale yellow-green strap-shaped leaves. florida to west indies and mexico and south to uruguay
oxydendrum arboreum;deciduous shrubby tree of eastern north america having deeply fissured bark and sprays of small fragrant white flowers and sour-tasting leaves
rougeberry;bushy houseplant having white to pale pink flowers followed by racemes of scarlet berries. tropical americas
pulex irritans;the most common flea attacking humans
mustelid;fissiped fur-bearing carnivorous mammals
lutjanus blackfordi;esteemed food fish with pinkish red head and body. common in american atlantic coastal waters and gulf of mexico
peregrine falcon;a widely distributed falcon formerly used in falconry
shoo fly;coarse south american herb grown for its blue-and-white flowers followed by a bladderlike fruit enclosing a dry berry
honeyflower;australian shrub whose flowers yield honey copiously
beast;a living organism characterized by voluntary movement
toxicodendron diversilobum;poisonous shrub of the north american pacific coast causing a rash on contact
japanese lawn grass;lawn grass common in china and japan. grown also in united states
leucanthemum maximum;similar to oxeye daisy
false dragonhead;north american plant having a spike of two-lipped pink or white flowers
thelypteris hexagonoptera;beech fern of north american woodlands having straw-colored stripes
quercus chrysolepis;medium-sized evergreen of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico with oblong leathery often spiny-edged leaves
davalia bullata mariesii;feathery fern of tropical asia and malaysia
southern porgy;porgy of southern atlantic coastal waters of north america
pinus aristata;small slow-growing upland pine of western united states (rocky mountains) having dense branches with fissured rust-brown bark and short needles in bunches of 5 and thorn-tipped cone scales. among the oldest living things some over 4500 years old
marmota flaviventris;heavy-bodied yellowish-brown marmot of rocky areas of western north america
boxberry;creeping woody plant of eastern north america with shiny evergreen leaves and scarlet berries
cabernet sauvignon grape;superior red wine grapes grown especially in the bordeaux region of france and northern california
nutsedge;a widely distributed perennial sedge having small edible nutlike tubers
lotus tree;shrubby deciduous tree of the mediterranean region
poisonberry;eurasian herb naturalized in america having white flowers and poisonous hairy foliage and bearing black berries that are sometimes poisonous but sometimes edible
trichostema lanatum;aromatic wooly-leaved plant of southern california and mexico
petasites fragrans;european herb with vanilla-scented white-pink flowers
asclepias exaltata;milkweed of the eastern united states with leaves resembling those of pokeweed
passiflora mollissima;cultivated for fruit
felid;any of various lithe-bodied round-headed fissiped mammals many with retractile claws
gymnosporangium juniperi virginianae;rust fungus causing rust spots on apples and pears etc
himalayan rhubarb;asian herb (himalaya)
trumpetfish;tropical atlantic fish with a long snout. swims snout down
aegyptopithecus;extinct primate of about 38 million years ago. fossils found in egypt
roselle;east indian sparsely prickly annual herb or perennial subshrub widely cultivated for its fleshy calyxes used in tarts and jelly and for its bast fiber
blueberry;any of numerous shrubs of the genus vaccinium bearing blueberries
veronica michauxii;plant of wet places in eurasia and america
velvet plant;any of various plants of the genus verbascum having large usually woolly leaves and terminal spikes of yellow or white or purplish flowers
acanthisitta chloris;small green-and-bronze bird
cooter;large river turtle of the southern united states and northern mexico
gray lemming;old world lemming
dalo;herb of the pacific islands grown throughout the tropics for its edible root and in temperate areas as an ornamental for its large glossy leaves
mountain oak;tall timber tree with hard heavy pinkish or light brown wood
habenaria unalascensis;similar to coastal rein orchid but with smaller flowers. alaska to baja california and east to the dakotas and colorado
bloomeria crocea;california plant having grasslike leaves and showy orange flowers
hair tailed mole;mole of eastern north america
great maple;eurasian maple tree with pale gray bark that peels in flakes like that of a sycamore tree. leaves with five ovate lobes yellow in autumn
new zealand honeysuckle;slender elegant tree of new zealand having racemes of red flowers and yielding valuable mottled red timber
hairstreak;small butterflies having striped markings under the wings
morelia spilotes variegatus;australian python with a variegated pattern on its back
texas purple spike;orchid with slender nearly leafless reddish-brown stems with loose racemes of reddish-brown flowers. of open brushy woods of southeastern arizona and central texas
stinking yew;rare small evergreen of northern florida. its glossy green leaves have an unpleasant fetid smell when crushed
ctenocephalides felis;breeds chiefly on cats and dogs and rats
bacterium;single-celled or noncellular spherical or spiral or rod-shaped organisms lacking chlorophyll that reproduce by fission. important as pathogens and for biochemical properties. taxonomy is difficult. often considered plants
humulus japonicus;ornamental vine native to eastern asia. cultivated for its variegated foliage
lycaenid butterfly;any of various butterflies of the family lycaenidae
gallus gallus;se asian jungle fowl considered ancestral to domestic fowl
lobefin;any fish of the order crossopterygii. most known only in fossil form
calvary clover;an annual of the mediterranean area having spiny seed pods and leaves with dark spots
ictalurus punctatus;freshwater food fish common throughout central united states
hercules club;densely spiny ornamental of southeastern united states and west indies
spindle horn;cow-like creature with the glossy coat of a horse and the agility of a goat and the long horns of an antelope. characterized as a cow that lives the life of a goat
antelope;graceful old world ruminant with long legs and horns directed upward and backward: e.g. gazelles. springboks. impalas. addax. gerenuks. blackbucks. dik-diks
prairie fowl;brown mottled north american grouse of western prairies
old squaw;a common long-tailed sea duck of the northern parts of the united states
beefwood;any of several australian trees of the genus casuarina yielding heavy hard red wood used in cabinetwork
swiss mountain pine;low shrubby pine of central europe with short bright green needles in bunches of two
tumor virus;a cell-free filtrate held to be a virus responsible for a specific neoplasm
trifoliata;small fast-growing spiny deciduous chinese orange tree bearing sweetly scented flowers and decorative but inedible fruit: used as a stock in grafting and for hedges
phage;virus parasitic in bacteria. multiplies within its host
peppermint gum;red gum tree of tasmania
halfbeak;tropical and subtropical marine and freshwater fishes having an elongated body and long protruding lower jaw
tailed toad;western north american frog with a tail-like copulatory organ
sambur;south asian deer with three-tined antlers
silene acaulis;tuft- or mat-forming dwarf perennial of arctic regions of western and central europe and north america
northern pike;voracious pisciverous pike of waters of northern hemisphere
southern white cedar;slow-growing medium-sized cedar of east coast of the united states. resembles american arborvitae
dryopithecus rudapithecus hungaricus;fossil hominoids from north central hungary. late miocene
pinckneya pubens;ornamental shrub or small tree of swampy areas in southwestern united states having large pink or white sepals and yielding georgia bark for treating fever
jumbie bead;west indian tree similar to ormosia monosperma but larger and having smaller leaflets and smaller seeds
blolly;evergreen climbing shrub of southern florida and west indies grown for its racemes of fragrant white to creamy flowers followed by globose white succulent berries
purple poppy mallow;hairy perennial of central united states having round deeply-lobed leaves and loose panicles of large crimson-purple or cherry-red flowers
elephant seal;either of two large north atlantic earless seals having snouts like trunks
agrostis alba;slender european grass of shady places. grown also in northeastern america and temperate asia
silverfish;a silvery variety of carassius auratus
albuca;any of various plants of the genus albuca having large clusters of pale yellow flowers. south africa
cyclopes didactylus;squirrel-sized south american toothless anteater with long silky golden fur
thelypteris palustris pubescens;fern of northeastern north america
geum strictum;erect subshrub with deep yellow flowers. europe and asia and north america
lithocarpus glaber;small evergreen tree of china and japan
ambloplites rupestris;game and food fish of upper mississippi and great lakes
taraxacum kok saghyz;perennial dandelion native to kazakh republic of russia cultivated for its fleshy roots which have high rubber content
early spider orchid;spring-blooming spider orchid having a flower with yellow or green or pink sepals and a broad brown velvety lip
california fern;large branching biennial herb native to eurasia and africa and adventive in north america having large fernlike leaves and white flowers. usually found in damp habitats. all parts extremely poisonous
rosewood tree;any of those hardwood trees of the genus dalbergia that yield rosewood--valuable cabinet woods of a dark red or purplish color streaked and variegated with black
tenpounder;game fish resembling the tarpon but smaller
nonvascular plant;any of numerous plants of the division bryophyta
tremella foliacea;a jelly fungus with a fruiting body 5-15 cm broad and gelatinous in consistency. resembles a bunch of leaf lettuce. mostly water and brownish in color
kittiwake;small pearl-gray gull of northern regions. nests on cliffs and has a rudimentary hind toe
aspidiotus perniciosus;small east asian insect naturalized in the united states that damages fruit trees
molly miller;inhabits both coasts of tropical atlantic
pitcher plant;any of several insectivorous herbs of the order sarraceniales
bessy cerca;tropical atlantic fish
duck;small wild or domesticated web-footed broad-billed swimming bird usually having a depressed body and short legs
giant red paintbrush;wildflower of western north america having ragged clusters of crimson or scarlet flowers
buffalo gourd;perennial vine of dry parts of central and southwestern united states and mexico having small hard mottled green inedible fruit
kniphofia;a plant of the genus kniphofia having long grasslike leaves and tall scapes of red or yellow drooping flowers
whippoorwill;american nocturnal goatsucker with gray-and-white plumage
humblebee;robust hairy social bee of temperate regions
guereza;a colobus monkey with a reddish brown coat and white silky fringes down both sides of the body
cuckoo bread;eurasian plant with heart-shaped trifoliate leaves and white pink- or purple-veined flowers
todea superba;new zealand with pinnate fronds and a densely woolly stalks. sometimes included in genus todea
horse gentian;coarse weedy american perennial herb with large usually perfoliate leaves and purple or dull red flowers
leaf roller;moth whose larvae form nests by rolling and tying leaves with spun silk
melicocca bijugatus;tropical american tree bearing a small edible fruit with green leathery skin and sweet juicy translucent pulp
raphicerus campestris;small plains antelope of southeastern africa
apatura iris;large european butterfly the male of which has wings shaded with purple
texas horned lizard;of arid and semiarid open country
planaria;free-swimming mostly freshwater flatworms. popular in laboratory studies for the ability to regenerate lost parts
cyclamen;mediterranean plant widely cultivated as a houseplant for its showy dark green leaves splotched with silver and nodding white or pink to reddish flowers with reflexed petals
winged bean;tuberous-rooted twining annual vine bearing clusters of purplish flowers and pods with four jagged wings. old world tropics
hay scented fern;fern of eastern north america with pale green fronds and hay-like aroma
mantis religioso;the common mantis
chigoe flea;small tropical flea. the fertile female burrows under the skin of the host including humans
nettle leaved bellflower;european bellflower with blue-purple to lilac flowers formerly used to treat sore throat
rock brake;chiefly lithophytic or epiphytic fern of north america and east asia
horsemint;tall erect perennial or annual having lanceolate leaves and heads of purple-spotted creamy flowers. many subspecies grown from eastern to southwestern united states and in mexico
hog;a sheep up to the age of one year. one yet to be sheared
dipogon lignosus;south african evergreen partly woody vine grown for its clusters of rosy purple flowers followed by edible pods like snap beans. also grown as green manure. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
mayweed;widespread rank-smelling weed having white-rayed flower heads with yellow discs
plecotus townsendi;bat of western north america having extremely large ears
cleavers;annual having the stem beset with curved prickles. north america and europe and asia
king fern;fern of rain forests of tropical australia and new zealand and south africa
fig marigold;any of several south african plants of the genus mesembryanthemum cultivated for showy pink or white flowers
hydrozoan;colonial coelenterates having the polyp phase dominant
vermillion flycatcher;tropical american flycatcher found as far north as southern texas and arizona. adult male has bright scarlet and black plumage
equus burchelli;of the plains of central and eastern africa
lathyrus odoratus;climbing garden plant having fragrant pastel-colored flowers
warrigal;australian wild horse
rauli beech;large chilean timber tree yielding coarse lumber
serviceberry;any of various north american trees or shrubs having showy white flowers and edible blue-black or purplish fruit
eupatorium perfoliatum;perennial herb of southeastern united states having white-rayed flower heads. formerly used as in folk medicine
gudgeon;small spiny-finned fish of coastal or brackish waters having a large head and elongated tapering body having the ventral fins modified as a sucker
gean;wild or seedling sweet cherry used as stock for grafting
coral snake;any of several venomous new world snakes brilliantly banded in red and black and either yellow or white. widely distributed in south and central america
bowhead whale;large-mouthed arctic whale
spotted sandpiper;common north american sandpiper
parkia javanica;tall evergreen rain forest tree with wide-spreading crown having yellow-white flowers. grown as an ornamental in parks and large gardens
sawyer;any of several beetles whose larvae bore holes in dead or dying trees especially conifers
woody pear;tree bearing pear-shaped fruit with a thick woody epicarp
fossa;largest carnivore of madagascar. intermediate in some respects between cats and civets
schaffneria nigripes;a fern of the genus schaffneria
spruce pine;shrubby 2-needled pine of coastal northwestern united states. red to yellow-brown bark fissured into small squares
solea lascaris;small european sole
gymnadenia odoratissima;similar to gymnadenia conopsea but with smaller flowers on shorter stems and having much shorter spurs
bitterweed;widespread european weed with spiny tongue-shaped leaves and yellow flowers. naturalized in united states
langsat;east indian tree bearing an edible yellow berry
tritoma;a plant of the genus kniphofia having long grasslike leaves and tall scapes of red or yellow drooping flowers
ovis montana dalli;large white wild sheep of northwestern canada and alaska
false lily of the valley;small white-flowered plant of western europe to japan
phoebe bird;small dun-colored north american flycatcher
bean aphid;blackish aphid that infests e.g. beans and sugar beets
smoothhound;smooth dogfish of european coastal waters
rat;any of various long-tailed rodents similar to but larger than a mouse
black mamba;southern african mamba dreaded because of its quickness and readiness to bite
vipera berus;small terrestrial viper common in northern eurasia
sirenian mammal;any of two families of large herbivorous aquatic mammals with paddle-shaped tails and flipper-like forelimbs and no hind limbs
chiropteran;nocturnal mouselike mammal with forelimbs modified to form membranous wings and anatomical adaptations for echolocation by which they navigate
cibotium barometz;asiatic tree fern having dense matted hairs sometimes used as a styptic
japanese honeysuckle;an asiatic trailing evergreen honeysuckle with half-evergreen leaves and fragrant white flowers turning yellow with age. has become a weed in some areas
arnoseris minima;small european herb with small yellow flowers
wood lily;lily of eastern north america having orange to orange-red purple-spotted flowers
eschscholtzia californica;of pacific coast of north america. widely cultivated for its yellow to red flowers
yellow mountain saxifrage;tufted evergreen perennial having ciliate leaves and yellow corymbose flowers often spotted orange
aster shortii;perennial of southeastern united states having usually blue flowers
wall rue;small delicate spleenwort found on a steep slope (as a wall or cliff) of eurasia and north america
showy lady s slipper;pale pink wild orchid of northeastern america having an inflated pouchlike lip
mammut americanum;north american mastodon. in some classifications considered a mammoth rather than a mastodon
menticirrhus saxatilis;whiting of the east coast of united states. closely resembles king whiting
rhynchoelaps australis;small venomous but harmless snake marked with black-and-white on red
dryopteris goldiana;north american fern with a blackish lustrous stipe
acacia auriculiformis;australian tree that yields tanning materials
spider monkey;arboreal monkey of tropical america with long slender legs and long prehensile tail
feeder;a machine that automatically provides a supply of some material (especially one that discharges feed into a trough for livestock)
bitterwood;medium to large tree of tropical north and south america having odd-pinnate leaves and long panicles of small pale yellow flowers followed by scarlet fruits
american gray birch;medium-sized birch of eastern north america having white or pale gray bark and valueless wood. occurs often as a second-browth forest tree
irish strawberry;small evergreen european shrubby tree bearing many-seeded scarlet berries that are edible but bland. of ireland, southern europe, asia minor
peromyscus gossypinus;large dark mouse of southeastern united states
sneezeweed;any of various plants of the genus helenium characteristically causing sneezing
jeffrey pine;tall symmetrical pine of western north america having long blue-green needles in bunches of 3 and elongated cones on spreading somewhat pendulous branches. sometimes classified as a variety of ponderosa pine
helleri;freshwater fish of central america having a long swordlike tail. popular aquarium fish
geum triflorum;north american perennial with hairy basal pinnate leaves and purple flowers and plume-tipped fruits
sweet bells;bushy deciduous shrub of the eastern united states with long racemes of pinkish flowers
microstrobos niphophilus;small shrub or tasmania having short stiff branches
swallow wort;perennial herb with branched woody stock and bright yellow flowers
chaulmoogra tree;east indian tree with oily seeds yield chaulmoogra oil used to treat leprosy
stenopelmatus fuscus;large wingless nocturnal grasshopper that burrows in loose soil along the united states pacific coast
joe pye weed;north american herb having whorled leaves and terminal clusters of small pinkish or purple flower heads
moorwort;wiry evergreen shrub having pendent clusters of white or pink flowers. of wet acidic areas in arctic and canada to northeastern united states
scarlet runner;tropical american high-climbing bean with red flowers and mottled black beans similar to phaseolus_vulgaris but perennial. a preferred food bean in g britain
surfbird;sandpiper-like shorebird of pacific coasts of north and south america
podocarp;any s-hemisphere evergreen of the genus podocarpus having a pulpy fruit with one hard seed
hollyhock;any of various tall plants of the genus alcea. native to the middle east but widely naturalized and cultivated for its very large variously colored flowers
horned violet;european viola with an unusually long corolla spur
petroselinum crispum tuberosum;parsley with smooth leaves and enlarged edible taproot resembling a savory parsnip
seahorse;either of two large northern marine mammals having ivory tusks and tough hide over thick blubber
southern cabbage butterfly;common north american form
viverricula indica;common small civet of southeast asia
workhorse;a horse used for plowing and hauling and other heavy labor
viola canadensis;tall north american perennial with heart-shaped leaves and purple-streaked white flowers
abies balsamea;medium-sized fir of northeastern north america. leaves smell of balsam when crushed. much used for pulpwood and christmas trees
corticium salmonicolor;fungus causing pink disease in citrus and coffee and rubber trees etc
glaucous bristlegrass;common weedy and bristly grass found in nearly all temperate areas
kapok;massive tropical tree with deep ridges on its massive trunk and bearing large pods of seeds covered with silky floss. source of the silky kapok fiber
american crayfish;common large crayfishes of eastern north america
zauschneria californica;shrublet of southwestern united states to mexico having brilliant scarlet flowers. sometimes placed in genus zauschneria
andromeda polifolia;erect to procumbent evergreen shrub having pendent clusters of white or pink flowers. of sphagnum peat bogs and other wet acidic areas in northern europe
bear s grape;evergreen mat-forming shrub of north america and northern eurasia having small white flowers and red berries. leaves turn red in autumn
canis niger;reddish-gray wolf of southwestern north america
needle palm;yucca with long stiff leaves having filamentlike appendages
hypericum maculatum;european perennial st john's wort. ireland and france to western siberia
water dog;a dog accustomed to water and usually trained to retrieve waterfowl
audubon s warbler;common warbler of western north america
white stork;the common stork of europe. white with black wing feathers and a red bill
tilletia foetida;similar to tilletia caries
pan troglodytes;intelligent somewhat arboreal ape of equatorial african forests
jacksnipe;a small short-billed old world snipe
five finger;any of a numerous plants grown for their 5-petal flowers. abundant in temperate regions. alleged to have medicinal properties
snake plant;stemless plant having narrow rigid leaves often cultivated as a houseplant
pussy willow;much-branched old world willow having large catkins and relatively large broad leaves
crane;large long-necked wading bird of marshes and plains in many parts of the world
wood hoopoe;tropical african bird having metallic blackish plumage but no crest
plumed tussock;tall grass of new zealand grown for plumelike flower heads
bedding plant;an ornamental plant suitable for planting in a flowerbed
castor bean plant;large shrub of tropical africa and asia having large palmate leaves and spiny capsules containing seeds that are the source of castor oil and ricin. widely naturalized throughout the tropics
erica cinerea;common low european shrub with purple-red flowers
bride s bonnet;plant with 1 or 2 white starlike flowers on short leafless stalks. alaska to california and east to oregon and montana
goldeneye;large-headed swift-flying diving duck of arctic regions
sinapis alba;eurasian mustard cultivated for its pungent seeds. a source of table mustard and mustard oil
mesquit;any of several small spiny trees or shrubs of the genus prosopis having small flowers in axillary cylindrical spikes followed by large sugar-rich pods
european spider crab;large european spider crab
large flowered fiddleneck;annual of the western united states having large coiled flower spikes. a threatened species
horsemint;an annual horsemint of central and western united states and northern mexico
moke;british informal
green arrow arum;perennial herb of the eastern united states having arrowhead-shaped leaves and an elongate pointed spathe and green berries
rue anemone;woodland flower native to eastern north america having cup-shaped flowers reminiscent of anemone but more delicate
kingcup;swamp plant of europe and north america having bright yellow flowers resembling buttercups
cardamine douglasii;small perennial herb of cooler regions of north america with racemose purple flowers
apatosaur;huge quadrupedal herbivorous dinosaur common in n. america in the late jurassic
goldcup;any of various plants of the genus ranunculus
paving machine;a machine for laying pavement
atlantic walrus;of north atlantic and arctic waters
water shamrock;perennial plant of europe and america having racemes of white or purplish flowers and intensely bitter trifoliate leaves. often rooting at water margin and spreading across the surface
new caledonian yew;large yew native to new caledonia. cultivated in eastern australia and new zealand and hawaii
dryland blueberry;low deciduous shrub of the eastern united states bearing dark blue sweet berries
rubus chamaemorus;creeping raspberry of north temperate regions with yellow or orange berries
king whiting;whiting of the southeastern coast of north america
yearling;an animal in its second year
equus caballus gomelini;european wild horse extinct since the early 20th century
malosma laurina;small aromatic evergreen shrub of california having paniculate leaves and whitish berries. in some classifications included in genus rhus
ague grass;colicroot having a scurfy or granuliferous perianth and white flowers. southeastern united states
sand lizard;a common and widely distributed lizard of europe and central asia
abaca;philippine plant having leafstalks that yield manila hemp used for rope and paper etc
lawson s cedar;large timber tree of western north america with trunk diameter to 12 feet and height to 200 feet
bird s nest fern;tropical old world or australian epiphytic fern frequently forming tufts in tree crotches
sansevieria trifasciata;stemless plant having narrow rigid leaves often cultivated as a houseplant
pole horse;a horse harnessed alongside the shaft or pole of a vehicle
african coral snake;small widely distributed arboreal snake of southern africa banded in black and orange
ling;water chestnut whose spiny fruit has two rather than 4 prongs
jaculus jaculus;a variety of jerboa
greylag goose;common gray wild goose of europe. ancestor of many domestic breeds
vigna unguiculata sesquipedalis;south american bean having very long succulent pods
chrysanthemum;of china
weeping tree broom;small shrubby tree of new zealand having weeping branches and racemes of white to violet flowers followed by woolly indehiscent 2-seeded pods
great barracuda;large (up to 6 ft) grayish-brown barracuda highly regarded as a food and sport fish. may be dangerous to swimmers
poephila castanotis;small australian weaverbird with markings like a zebra's
vanilla planifolia;climbing non-ornamental orchid bearing a podlike fruit yielding vanilla beans. widely cultivated from florida southward throughout tropical america
ipomoea tricolor;annual or perennial climbing herb of central america having sky-blue flowers. most commonly cultivated morning glory
cattail millet;tall grass having cattail like spikes. grown in africa and asia for its grain and in the united states chiefly for forage. sometimes used in making beer
orthopteran;any of various insects having leathery forewings and membranous hind wings and chewing mouthparts
puss;informal terms
prongbuck;fleet antelope-like ruminant of western north american plains with small branched horns
dotted gayfeather;herb with many stems bearing narrow slender wands of crowded rose-lavender flowers. central united states and canada to texas and northern mexico
doctorfish;surgeon fish of the west indies
sweet pepperbush;shrub of eastern and southern coastal united states having beautiful racemes of spice-scented white flowers
australian turtledove;small australian dove
phasianid;a kind of game bird in the family phasianidae
tulipwood tree;any of various trees yielding variously colored woods similar to true tulipwood
london plane;very large fast-growing tree much planted as a street tree
cedarbird;widely distributed over temperate north america
leech;carnivorous or bloodsucking aquatic or terrestrial worms typically having a sucker at each end
field wormwood;european wormwood similar to common wormwood in its properties
gas turbine;converts the chemical energy of a liquid fuel into mechanical energy by internal combustion. gaseous products of the fuel (which is burned in compressed air) are expanded through a turbine
acer campestre;shrubby eurasian maple often used as a hedge
spotted crake;eurasian rail of swamps and marshes
bufo speciosus;nocturnal burrowing toad of mesquite woodland and prairies of the united states southwest
staff vine;twining shrub of north america having three-valved yellow capsules enclosing scarlet seeds
cacomistle;raccoon-like omnivorous mammal of mexico and the southwestern united states having a long bushy tail with black and white rings
raspberry bush;woody brambles bearing usually red but sometimes black or yellow fruits that separate from the receptacle when ripe and are rounder and smaller than blackberries
crab eating dog;wild dog of northern south america
horsebean;seed of the broad-bean plant
shoebird;large stork-like bird of the valley of the white nile with a broad bill suggesting a wooden shoe
rangifer caribou;any of several large caribou living in coniferous forests of southern canada. in some classifications included in the species rangifer tarandus
aster falcatus;perennial of western north america having white flowers
common milkwort;small european perennial with numerous branches having racemes of blue, pink or white flowers. formerly reputed to promote human lactation
spat;a young oyster or other bivalve
turdus iliacus;small european thrush having reddish flanks
jafnea semitosta;the fruiting bodies of this discomycete have a firm texture and long retain their cup shape. the pale brown interior blends with the color of dead leaves
rudbeckia laciniata;tall leafy plant with erect branches ending in large yellow flower heads with downward-arching rays. rocky mtns south to arizona and east to atlantic coast
cleome pinnata;perennial of southwestern united states having leathery blue-green pinnatifid leaves and thick plumelike spikes of yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus cleome
bankia setaceae;giant shipworm of the pacific coast of north america
christmas fern;north american evergreen fern having pinnate leaves and dense clusters of lance-shaped fronds
ochna serrulata;shrub with narrow-elliptic glossy evergreen leaves and yellow flowers with leathery petaloid sepals
ringed snake;harmless european snake with a bright yellow collar. common in england
jerusalem sage;a spreading subshrub of mediterranean regions cultivated for dense axillary whorls of purple or yellow flowers
mole plant;showy poinsettia found from southern united states to peru. often confused with euphoria cyathophora
circassian walnut;eurasian walnut valued for its large edible nut and its hard richly figured wood. widely cultivated
kudu lily;south african shrub having a swollen succulent stem and bearing showy pink and white flowers after the leaves fall. popular as an ornamental in tropics
amazon ant;small reddish slave-making ant species
fagus sylvatica pendula;variety of european beech with pendulous limbs
hawksbill;pugnacious tropical sea turtle with a hawk-like beak. source of food and the best tortoiseshell
phalaropus fulicarius;phalarope of northern oceans and lakes
carpet beetle;small beetle whose larvae are household pests feeding on woolen fabrics
leguminous plant;an erect or climbing bean or pea plant of the family leguminosae
yellow nutgrass;european sedge having small edible nutlike tubers
new england aster;common perennial of eastern north america having showy purplish flowers. a parent of the michaelmas daisy
lathyrus vernus;bushy european perennial having nodding racemose violet-blue flowers
cypraea tigris;cowrie whose shell is used for ornament
astroloma humifusum;small prostrate or ascending shrub having scarlet flowers and thin-fleshed succulent fruit resembling cranberries. sometimes place in genus styphelia
snakeberry;north american perennial herb with ternately compound leaves and racemes of small white flowers followed by bright red oval poisonous berries
fucus serratus;brown algae seaweed with serrated edges
wild red oat;mediterranean oat held to be progenitor of modern cultivated oat
lupinus albus;white-flowered eurasian herb widely cultivated for forage and erosion control
white tailed jackrabbit;largest hare of northern plains and western mountains of united states. brownish-gray in summer and pale gray in winter. tail nearly always all white
marsh milkweed;north american herb having whorled leaves and terminal clusters of flowers spotted with purple
gipsy moth;european moth introduced into north america. a serious pest of shade trees
cockatiel;small gray australian parrot with a yellow crested head
jumping bristletail;wingless insect living in dark moist places as under dead tree trunks. they make erratic leaps when disturbed
grison vittatus;carnivore of central and south america resembling a weasel with a grayish-white back and dark underparts
siberian pea tree;large spiny shrub of eastern asia having clusters of yellow flowers. often cultivated in shelterbelts and hedges
snapping shrimp;small shrimp that makes a snapping noise with one of their enlarged chelae
southern bog lemming;of low bogs and meadows of northeastern and central united states and southern canada
mountain clubmoss;of northern europe and america. resembling a miniature fir
gemsbuck;large south african oryx with a broad black band along its flanks
cassie;tropical american thorny shrub or small tree. fragrant yellow flowers used in making perfumery
baker s yeast;used as a leaven in baking and brewing
salix repens;small trailing bush of europe and asia having straggling branches with silky green leaves of which several varieties are cultivated
cortinarius atkinsonianus;an edible fungus with a slimy viscid cap that is initially yellow but turns olive and then tawny. flesh is lavender
dwarf white trillium;a low perennial white-flowered trillium found in the southeastern united states
bird of jove;any of various large keen-sighted diurnal birds of prey noted for their broad wings and strong soaring flight
mesua ferrea;handsome east indian evergreen tree often planted as an ornamental for its fragrant white flowers that yield a perfume. source of very heavy hardwood used for railroad ties
anthyllis vulneraria;perennial eurasian herb having heads of red or yellow flowers and common in meadows and pastures. formerly used medicinally for kidney disorders
araneus cavaticus;an orange and tan spider with darkly banded legs that spins an orb web daily. 'the barn spider was made famous in e. b. white's book 'charlotte's web''
amadavat;red asian weaverbirds often kept as cage birds
possum haw;deciduous shrub of southeastern and central united states
durian tree;tree of southeastern asia having edible oval fruit with a hard spiny rind
flowering fern;any fern of the genus osmunda: large ferns with creeping rhizomes. naked sporangia are on modified fronds that resemble flower clusters
conradina glabra;small shrub of apalachicola river area in southeastern united states having highly aromatic pinkish flowers. a threatened species
sheeptick;wingless fly that is an external parasite on sheep and cattle
dasyurid;small carnivorous nocturnal marsupials of australia and tasmania
petty spurge;an old world spurge introduced as a weed in the eastern united states
lobster;any of several edible marine crustaceans of the families homaridae and nephropsidae and palinuridae
swimming crab;marine crab with some legs flattened and fringed for swimming
white lipped peccary;blackish peccary with whitish cheeks. larger than the collared peccary
acer spicatum;small shrubby maple of eastern north america. scarlet in autumn
rove beetle;active beetle typically having predatory or scavenging habits
dendrocalamus giganteus;immense tropical southeast asian bamboo with tough hollow culms that resemble tree trunks
wahoo;large fast-moving predacious food and game fish. found worldwide
lesser galangal;chinese perennial with pyramidal racemes of rose-veined white flowers and pungent aromatic roots used medicinally and as flavoring
flat leaf parsley;a variety of parsley having flat leaves
calico bush;a north american evergreen shrub having glossy leaves and white or rose-colored flowers
rock kangaroo;slender long-legged australian wallabies living in caves and rocky areas
haliotis tuberculata;found near the channel islands
rheum australe;asian herb (himalaya)
dialeurodes citri;whitefly that attacks citrus trees
american spicebush;deciduous shrub of the eastern united states having highly aromatic leaves and bark and yellow flowers followed by scarlet or yellow berries
erne;bulky grayish-brown eagle with a short wedge-shaped white tail. of europe and greenland
trumpeter;large gregarious forest-dwelling cranelike bird of south america having glossy black plumage and a loud prolonged cry. easily domesticated
northern bedstraw;north american stoloniferous perennial having white flowers. sometimes used as an ornamental
century plant;tropical american plants with basal rosettes of fibrous sword-shaped leaves and flowers in tall spikes. some cultivated for ornament or for fiber
imperial moth;large american moth having yellow wings with purplish or brownish markings. larvae feed on e.g. maple and pine trees
tung tree;chinese tree bearing seeds that yield tung oil
abies concolor;medium to tall fir of central to western united states having a narrow erect crown and soft wood
common birch;european birch with silvery white peeling bark and markedly drooping branches
platypus;small densely furred aquatic monotreme of australia and tasmania having a broad bill and tail and webbed feet. only species in the family ornithorhynchidae
hipsurus caryi;pacific coast fish
haldea striatula;in some classifications placed in genus haldea. small reddish-gray snake of eastern north america
corn mayweed;ubiquitous european annual weed with white flowers and finely divided leaves naturalized and sometimes cultivated in eastern north america. sometimes included in genus matricaria
cardamine bulbosa;small white-flowered cress common in wet places in eastern north america
ursus horribilis;powerful brownish-yellow bear of the uplands of western north america
macrocephalon maleo;celebes megapode that lays eggs in holes in sandy beaches
tall field buttercup;perennial european buttercup with yellow spring flowers widely naturalized especially in eastern north america
shrew mole;slender mole having a long snout and tail
whorled caraway;a caraway with whorled leaves
shamrock;clover native to ireland with yellowish flowers. often considered the true or original shamrock
silver pine;timber tree of new zealand having shiny white wood
lesser calamint;low-growing strongly aromatic perennial herb of southern europe to gb naturalized in united states
mill;a machine that processes materials by grinding or crushing
abyssinian;a small slender short-haired breed of african origin having brownish fur with a reddish undercoat
mustela nigripes;ferret of prairie regions of united states. nearly extinct
grass of parnassus;any of various usually evergreen bog plants of the genus parnassia having broad smooth basal leaves and a single pale flower resembling a buttercup
donkey engine;a small engine (as one used on board ships to operate a windlass)
hoop snake;any of various harmless north american snakes that were formerly believed to take tail in mouth and roll along like a hoop
caracul;hardy coarse-haired sheep of central asia. lambs are valued for their soft curly black fur
alkanet;perennial or biennial herb cultivated for its delicate usually blue flowers
phytolacca acinosa;pokeweed of southeastern asia and china
granadilla tree;west indian tree yielding a fine grade of green ebony
yucca filamentosa;yucca with long stiff leaves having filamentlike appendages
red bellied terrapin;freshwater turtle of chesapeake bay tributaries having red markings on the lower shell
dundathu pine;australian timber tree resembling the kauri but having wood much lighter in weight and softer
bufo boreas;of a great variety of habitats from southern alaska to baja california west of the rockies
bullfrog;largest north american frog. highly aquatic with a deep-pitched voice
pilea pumilla;a plants of the genus pilea having drooping green flower clusters and smooth translucent stems and leaves
vervet monkey;south african monkey with black face and hands
felis domesticus;any domesticated member of the genus felis
jewbush;low tropical american shrub having powerful emetic properties
musa basjoo;asiatic banana plant cultivated especially as a foliage plant in japan
libocedrus decurrens;tall tree of north american pacific coast having cypress-like foliage and cinnamon-red bark
tarwood;new zealand shrub
pavior;a machine for laying pavement
false bugbane;tall perennial of the eastern united states having large basal leaves and white summer flowers
floating fern;small free-floating aquatic fern from the eastern united states to tropical america. naturalized in western and southern europe
ragged fringed orchid;fringed orchid of the eastern united states having a greenish flower with the lip deeply lacerate
black squirrel;fox squirrel or gray squirrel in the black color phase
fishworm;terrestrial worm that burrows into and helps aerate soil. often surfaces when the ground is cool or wet. used as bait by anglers
southeastern pocket gopher;gopher of alabama georgia and florida
tree martin;of australia and polynesia. nests in tree cavities
scotch marigold;the common european annual marigold
narrow leaved everlasting pea;european perennial with mottled purple-pink flowers. sometimes cultivated for fodder or as green manure
ancient pine;small slow-growing pine of western united states similar to the bristlecone pine. chocolate brown bark in plates and short needles in bunches of 5. crown conic but becoming rough and twisted. oldest plant in the world growing to 5000 years in cold semi-desert mountain tops
rose geranium;any of several southern african geraniums having fragrant 3- to 5-lobed leaves and pink flowers
coral root;a wildflower of the genus corallorhiza growing from a hard mass of rhizomes associated with a fungus that aids in absorbing nutrients from the forest floor
wilson s warbler;yellow wood warbler with a black crown
leichtlin s camas;west of cascade mountains
basket fern;giant epiphytic or lithophytic fern. asia to polynesia and australia
coral drops;half-hardy mexican herb cultivated for its drooping terminal umbels of showy red-and-white flowers
bracket fungus;a woody fungus that forms shelflike sporophores
white perch;small silvery food and game fish of eastern united states streams
pagophila eburnea;white arctic gull. migrates as far south as england and new brunswick
arnica cordifolia;wildflower with heart-shaped leaves and broad yellow flower heads. of alpine areas west of the rockies from alaska to southern california
shawnee salad;showy perennial herb with white flowers. leaves sometimes used as edible greens in southeastern united states
minniebush;low shrub of the eastern united states with downy twigs
purple locoweed;tufted locoweed of southwestern united states having purple or pink to white flowers
sweet pea;climbing garden plant having fragrant pastel-colored flowers
damson plum;plum tree long cultivated for its edible fruit
gnawing mammal;relative large gnawing animals. distinguished from rodents by having two pairs of upper incisors specialized for gnawing
japanese poinsettia;showy poinsettia found from southern united states to peru. often confused with euphoria cyathophora
prawn;shrimp-like decapod crustacean having two pairs of pincers. most are edible
piranha;small voraciously carnivorous freshwater fishes of south america that attack and destroy living animals
mulberry tree;any of several trees of the genus morus having edible fruit that resembles the blackberry
civet cat;raccoon-like omnivorous mammal of mexico and the southwestern united states having a long bushy tail with black and white rings
wild emmer;found wild in palestine. held to be prototype of cultivated wheat
wood sorrel;any plant or flower of the genus oxalis
bengal tiger;southern short-haired tiger
japanese allspice;deciduous japanese shrub cultivated for its fragrant yellow flowers
malaxis ophioglossoides;north american orchid having a solitary leaf and flowers with threadlike petals
egretta albus;the common american egret. a variety of the old world casmerodius albus
geophyte;a perennial plant that propagates by underground bulbs or tubers or corms
prairie sunflower;similar to the common sunflower with slender usually branching stems common in central united states
cream violet;leafy-stemmed violet of eastern north america having large white or creamy flowers faintly marked with purple
jersey elm;a variety of the english elm with erect branches and broader leaves
native fuchsia;erect deciduous shrub or tree to 10 feet with maroon-flushed flowers. new zealand
pipal;fig tree of india noted for great size and longevity. lacks the prop roots of the banyan
allspice;deciduous shrubs having aromatic bark. eastern china. southwestern and eastern united states
crucian carp;european carp closely resembling wild goldfish
earthworm;terrestrial worm that burrows into and helps aerate soil. often surfaces when the ground is cool or wet. used as bait by anglers
melicocca bijuga;tropical american tree bearing a small edible fruit with green leathery skin and sweet juicy translucent pulp
armored dinosaur;dinosaurs having bony armour
crapaud;large toothed frog of south and central america resembling the bullfrog
bear s foot;digitate-leaved hellebore with an offensive odor and irritant qualities when taken internally
plectranthus;any of various ornamental plants of the genus plectranthus
oregon pine;lofty douglas fir of northwestern north america having short needles and egg-shaped cones
wild climbing hempweed;herb of tropical america having vanilla-scented flowers. climbs up trees
manx cat;a short-haired tailless breed of cat believed to originate on the isle of man
snakehead;showy perennial of marshlands of eastern and central north america having waxy lanceolate leaves and flower with lower part creamy white and upper parts pale pink to deep purple
plume grass;a reedlike grass of the genus erianthus having large plumes
exploding cucumber;mediterranean vine having oblong fruit that when ripe expels its seeds and juice violently when touched
salai;east indian tree yielding a resin used medicinally and burned as incense
rose chafer;common north american beetle: larvae feed on roots and adults on leaves and flowers of e.g. rose bushes or apple trees or grape vines
anoa mindorensis;small buffalo of mindoro in the philippines
paramyxovirus;a group of viruses including those causing mumps and measles
sabbatia angularis;pink-flowered marsh plant of the eastern united states
gentianopsis holopetala;small blue-flowered fringed gentian of sierra nevada mountains
burdock;any of several erect biennial herbs of temperate eurasia having stout taproots and producing burs
carambola;east indian tree bearing deeply ridged yellow-brown fruit
rose globe lily;globe lily with deep rose-pink or purple egg-shaped flowers on flexuous stems. western slopes of sierra nevada in san joaquin valley
canada garlic;north american bulbous plant
indigo plant;deciduous subshrub of southeastern asia having pinnate leaves and clusters of red or purple flowers. a source of indigo dye
maned wolf;reddish-gray wolf of southwestern north america
lilium michiganense;lily of central north america having recurved orange-red flowers with deep crimson spots
acer argutum;small shrubby japanese plant with leaves having 5 to 7 acuminate lobes. yellow in autumn
fennel flower;nigella of spain and southern france
nycticebus tardigradua;stocky lemur of southeastern asia
pheasant cuckoo;australian bird with a tail like a pheasant
columba fasciata;wild pigeon of western north america. often mistaken for the now extinct passenger pigeon
jaguarundi cat;long-bodied long-tailed tropical american wildcat
pea plant;a leguminous plant of the genus pisum
pecan;tree of southern united states and mexico cultivated for its nuts
mandrillus leucophaeus;similar to the mandrill but smaller and less brightly colored
viola tricolor hortensis;large-flowered garden plant derived chiefly from the wild pansy of europe and having velvety petals of various colors
tragopogon dubius;european perennial naturalized throughout united states having hollow stems with a few long narrow tapered leaves and each bearing a solitary pale yellow flower
mountain viscacha;a rodent native to the mountains of chile and peru and now bred in captivity
platycerium bifurcatum;commonly cultivated fern of australia and southeastern asia and polynesia
calabura;a fast-growing tropical american evergreen having white flowers and white fleshy edible fruit. bark yields a silky fiber used in cordage and wood is valuable for staves
foamflower;stoloniferous white-flowered spring-blooming woodland plant
transvaal kafferboom;small semi-evergreen of south africa having dense clusters of clear scarlet flowers and red seeds
dobson fly;large soft-bodied insect having long slender mandibles in the male. aquatic larvae often used as bait
nitrous bacteria;soil bacteria that oxidize ammonia to nitrites
wandflower;a showy often-cultivated plant with tawny yellow often purple-spotted flowers
brooklime;plant of western north america and northeastern asia having prostrate stems with dense racemes of pale violet to lilac flowers
hymenopteran;insects having two pairs of membranous wings and an ovipositor specialized for stinging or piercing
swamp rabbit;of marshy coastal areas from north carolina to florida
white heart hickory;smooth-barked north american hickory with 7 to 9 leaflets bearing a hard-shelled edible nut
chamaemelum nobilis;eurasian plant apple-scented foliage and white-rayed flowers and feathery leaves used medicinally. in some classification systems placed in genus anthemis
common scurvy grass;a widely distributed arctic cress reputed to have value in treatment or prevention of scurvy. a concentrated source of vitamin c
herpes zoster;a herpes virus that causes shingles
strainer vine;any of several tropical annual climbers having large yellow flowers and edible young fruits. grown commercially for the mature fruit's dried fibrous interior that is used as a sponge
white honeysuckle;shrub growing in swamps throughout the eastern united states and having small white to pinkish honeysucklelike flowers
bear cat;reddish-brown old world raccoon-like carnivore. in some classifications considered unrelated to the giant pandas
nyctanassa violacea;north american night heron
arthropod;invertebrate having jointed limbs and a segmented body with an exoskeleton made of chitin
africanized honey bee;a strain of bees that originated in brazil in the 1950s as a cross between an aggressive african bee and a honeybee. retains most of the traits of the african bee. now spread as far north as texas
safflower;thistlelike eurasian plant widely grown for its red or orange flower heads and seeds that yield a valuable oil
ulmus hollandica vegetata;erect vigorous hybrid ornamental
caesalpinia sepiaria;spreading thorny shrub of tropical asia bearing large erect racemes of red-marked yellow flowers
brosme brosme;large edible marine fish of northern coastal waters. related to cod
striped bass;marine food and game fish with dark longitudinal stripes. migrates upriver to spawn. sometimes placed in the genus morone (morone saxatilis)
titi;deciduous shrubby tree of eastern north america having deeply fissured bark and sprays of small fragrant white flowers and sour-tasting leaves
pine spittlebug;north american insect that attacks pines
amur privet;eastern asian shrub cultivated especially for its persistent foliage
carpenteria californica;california evergreen shrub having glossy opposite leaves and terminal clusters of a few fragrant white flowers
phalanger;small furry australian arboreal marsupials having long usually prehensile tails
zoarces viviparus;an eelpout of northern europe that is viviparous
pigeon pea;tropical woody herb with showy yellow flowers and flat pods. much cultivated in the tropics
galago;agile long-tailed nocturnal african lemur with dense woolly fur and large eyes and ears
circaea alpina;an alpine variety of enchanter's_nightshade
argemone mexicana;annual herb with prickly stems and large yellow flowers. southern united states to west indies and mexico
silurid;old world freshwater catfishes having naked skin and a long anal fin more or less merged with the eellike caudal fin
blennius pholis;european scaleless blenny
mosquito fern;small free-floating aquatic fern from the eastern united states to tropical america. naturalized in western and southern europe
meadow spikemoss;spikemoss forming dense mats. eastern north america
mango tree;large evergreen tropical tree cultivated for its large oval smooth-skinned fruit
peruvian mastic tree;small peruvian evergreen with broad rounded head and slender pendant branches with attractive clusters of greenish flowers followed by clusters of rose-pink fruits
felis serval;slender long-legged african wildcat having large untufted ears and tawny black-spotted coat
lion cub;a young lion
galtonia candicans;southern african herb with white bell-shaped flowers
merostomata;used in some classifications. includes the orders xiphosura and eurypterida
bachelor s button;tropical american herb having rose to red or purple flowers that can be dried without losing color
ulmus procera;broad spreading rough-leaved elm common throughout europe and planted elsewhere
durra;sorghums of dry regions of asia and north africa
guinea flower;any of several australasian evergreen vines widely cultivated in warm regions for their large bright yellow single flowers
silver jenny;silvery mojarra found along sandy shores of the western atlantic
may bug;any of various large usually brown north american leaf-eating beetles common in late spring. the larvae feed on roots of grasses etc.
snapper;any of several large sharp-toothed marine food and sport fishes of the family lutjanidae of mainly tropical coastal waters
amorpha canescens;shrub of sandy woodlands and stream banks of western united states having hoary pinnate flowers and dull-colored racemose flowers. thought to indicate the presence of lead ore
prairie mimosa;perennial herb of north american prairies having dense heads of small white flowers
neem tree;large semi-evergreen tree of east india. trunk exudes a tenacious gum. bitter bark used as a tonic. seeds yield an aromatic oil. sometimes placed in genus melia
prince of wales plume;new zealand with pinnate fronds and a densely woolly stalks. sometimes included in genus todea
myrica cerifera;evergreen aromatic shrubby tree of southeastern united states having small hard berries thickly coated with white wax used for candles
michigan lily;lily of central north america having recurved orange-red flowers with deep crimson spots
tuberous vetch;european herb bearing small tubers used for food and in scotland to flavor whiskey
flowering crab;derived from the iowa_crab and cultivated for its large double pink blossoms
proconsul;an anthropoid ape of the genus proconsul
false morel;a fungus of the family helvellaceae
strawberry shrub;hardy shrub of southeastern united states having clove-scented wood and fragrant red-brown flowers
adjutant stork;large indian stork with a military gait
deepwater pipefish;8 inches. from eastern florida to western caribbean
floccose chanterelle;a mildly poisonous fungus with a fruiting body shaped like a hollow trumpet
melampsora lini;fungus causing flax rust
jacob s staff;desert shrub of southwestern united states and mexico having slender naked spiny branches that after the rainy season put forth foliage and clusters of red flowers
clupeid fish;any of numerous soft-finned schooling food fishes of shallow waters of northern seas
spring peeper;small brown tree toad having a shrill call heard near wetlands of eastern united states and canada in early spring
xenorhyncus asiaticus;large mostly white australian stork
catamountain;bushy-tailed european wildcat resembling the domestic tabby and regarded as the ancestor of the domestic cat
wrasse;chiefly tropical marine fishes with fleshy lips and powerful teeth. usually brightly colored
quercus sessiliflora;deciduous european oak valued for its tough elastic wood
yellowfin croaker;fish of north american pacific coast
porphyrio porphyrio;purple gallinule of southern europe
ring necked parakeet;african parakeet
black backed gull;white gull having a black back and wings
golden wattle;shrubby australian tree having clusters of fragrant golden yellow flowers. widely cultivated as an ornamental
whitetail antelope squirrel;small ground squirrel of western united states
okapia johnstoni;similar to the giraffe but smaller with much shorter neck and stripe on the legs
baby bird;young bird not yet fledged
gastrula;double-walled stage of the embryo succeeding the blastula
pikeblenny;tropical american fishes. males are aggressively defensive of their territory
hydra;small tubular solitary freshwater hydrozoan polyp
golden mole;mole of southern africa having iridescent guard hairs mixed with the underfur
wyethia helianthoides;herb with basal leaves and leafy hairy stems bearing solitary flower heads with white or pale cream rays. northwestern united states
stromateid fish;small marine fish with a short smooth-scaled compressed body and feeble spines
cymbidium;any of various plants of the genus cymbidium having narrow leaves and a long drooping cluster of numerous showy and variously colored boat-shaped flowers. extensively hybridized and cultivated as houseplants and important florists' flowers
king of the herring;thin deep-water tropical fish 20 to 30 feet long having a red dorsal fin
longfin mako;similar to shortfin mako but darker blue
lythrum hyssopifolia;annual with small solitary pink flowers. originally of europe but widely naturalized in moist areas
yucca baccata;tall woody-stemmed yucca of southwestern united states and mexico having stiff swortlike pointed leaves and a large cluster of white flowers
digger wasp;solitary wasp that digs nests in the soil and stocks them with paralyzed insects for the larvae
przevalski s horse;wild horse of central asia that resembles an ass. now endangered
celastrus orbiculatus;ornamental asiatic vine with showy orange-yellow fruit with a scarlet aril. naturalized in north america
lupinus perennis;stout perennial of eastern and central north america having palmate leaves and showy racemose blue flowers
bee orchid;european orchid whose flowers resemble bumble bees in shape and color
bladderwrack;similar to and found with black rockweed
sweet chestnut;wild or cultivated throughout southern europe, northwestern africa and southwestern asia
gomphrena globosa;tropical american herb having rose to red or purple flowers that can be dried without losing color
snakeweed;low-growing sticky subshrub of southwestern united states having narrow linear leaves on many slender branches and hundreds of tiny yellow flower heads
vine cactus;desert shrub of southwestern united states and mexico having slender naked spiny branches that after the rainy season put forth foliage and clusters of red flowers
starved aster;a variety of aster
closed gentian;gentian of eastern north america having tubular blue or white flowers that open little if at all
cow s head;a morel with the ridged and pitted fertile portion attached to the stipe for about half its length
queenfish;silvery and bluish drumfish of shallow california coastal waters
gudgeon;small slender european freshwater fish often used as bait by anglers
blue ash;ash of central and southern united states with bluish-green foliage and hard brown wood
bunt;fungus that destroys kernels of wheat by replacing them with greasy masses of smelly spores
bougainvillea;any of several south american ornamental woody vines of the genus bougainvillea having brilliant red or purple flower bracts. widely grown in warm regions
spring vetch;herbaceous climbing plant valuable as fodder and for soil-building
sweet grass;any of several moisture-loving grasses of the genus glyceria having sweet flavor or odor
automaton;"a mechanism that can move automatically"
japanese quince;deciduous thorny shrub native to china having red or white blossoms
wisent;european bison having a smaller and higher head than the north american bison
white fringed orchid;bog orchid of eastern north america with a spike of pure white fringed flowers
stapelias asterias;stapelia of cape province africa having mostly dark red-brown flowers with flat starlike corollas
radiolarian;protozoa with amoeba-like bodies and radiating filamentous pseudopods
catoptrophorus semipalmatus;large north american shorebird of eastern and gulf coasts
spindleberry tree;any shrubby trees or woody vines of the genus euonymus having showy usually reddish berries
checkered lily;any liliaceous plant of the genus fritillaria having nodding variously colored flowers
scale insect;small homopterous insect that usually lives and feeds on plants and secretes a protective waxy covering
pomelo tree;southeastern asian tree producing large fruits resembling grapefruits
madagascar periwinkle;commonly cultivated old world woody herb having large pinkish to red flowers
spring cress;small white-flowered cress common in wet places in eastern north america
cicada;stout-bodied insect with large membranous wings. male has drum-like organs for producing a high-pitched drone
tringa flavipes;a variety of yellowlegs
early winter cress;of southwestern europe. cultivated in florida
allspice tree;tropical american tree having small white flowers and aromatic berries
wild morning glory;common eurasian and american wild climber with pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus convolvulus
retrorocket;a small rocket engine on a larger rocket or spacecraft that is fired to slow or alter its course
acanthurus chirurgus;surgeon fish of the west indies
leuciscus cephalus;european freshwater game fish with a thick spindle-shaped body
lamb;young sheep
acacia pycnantha;shrubby australian tree having clusters of fragrant golden yellow flowers. widely cultivated as an ornamental
army cutworm;moth whose larvae destroy grains and forage plants
equisetum fluviatile;eurasia. northern north america to virginia
fagus grandifolia;north american forest tree with light green leaves and edible nuts
mexican poppy;annual herb with prickly stems and large yellow flowers. southern united states to west indies and mexico
bilberry;erect blueberry of western united states having solitary flowers and somewhat sour berries
benjamin bush;deciduous shrub of the eastern united states having highly aromatic leaves and bark and yellow flowers followed by scarlet or yellow berries
salvia verbenaca;eurasian sage with blue flowers and verbenalike foliage. naturalized in united states
dutch elm;any of various hybrid ornamental european shade trees ranging from dwarf to tall
coccid insect;scale insects and mealybugs
chain fern;a fern of the genus woodwadia having the sori in chainlike rows
solanum wendlandii;vine of costa rica sparsely armed with hooklike spines and having large lilac-blue flowers
carya tomentosa;smooth-barked north american hickory with 7 to 9 leaflets bearing a hard-shelled edible nut
cynodon dactylon;trailing grass native to europe now cosmopolitan in warm regions. used for lawns and pastures especially in southern united states and india
dwarf chinquapin oak;deciduous shrubby tree of northeastern and central united states having a sweet edible nut and often forming dense thickets
horseshoe vetch;european woody-pased perennial with yellow umbellate flowers followed by flattened pods that separate into horseshoe-shaped joints
scarlet bugler;plant with bright red tubular flowers in long narrow clusters near tips of erect stems. coastal ranges from central california southward
roystonea regia;tall feather palm of southern florida and cuba
lagenaria siceraria;old world climbing plant with hard-shelled bottle-shaped gourds as fruits
mammee apple;tropical american tree having edible fruit with a leathery rind
munj;tough asiatic grass whose culms are used for ropes and baskets
fungus;a parasitic plant lacking chlorophyll and leaves and true stems and roots and reproducing by spores
evergreen magnolia;evergreen tree of southern united states having large stiff glossy leaves and huge white sweet-smelling flowers
penstemon dolius;low plant with light blue and violet flowers in short clusters near tips of stems. nevada to utah
malamute;breed of sled dog developed in alaska
stone curlew;large-headed large-eyed crepuscular or nocturnal shorebird of the old world and tropical america having a thickened knee joint
pacific bonito;probably a northern strain of chile bonito
anise hyssop;much-branched north american herb with an odor like fennel
elodea densa;aquatic plant with deep green foliage useful as an aquarium oxygenator. sometimes placed in genus egeria
money plant;southeastern european plant cultivated for its fragrant purplish flowers and round flat papery silver-white seedpods that are used for indoor decoration
spinning wheel;a small domestic hand- or foot-driven machine driving a single spindle
bitter pignut;hickory of the eastern united states having a leaves with 7 or 9 leaflets and thin-shelled very bitter nuts
automeris io;large yellow american moth having a large eyelike spot on each hind wing. the larvae have stinging spines
oestrus ovis;larvae are parasitic on sheep
malva moschata;erect old world perennial with faintly musk-scented foliage and white or pink flowers. adventive in united states
otter hound;hardy british hound having long pendulous ears and a thick coarse shaggy coat with an oily undercoat. bred for hunting otters
scilla nonscripta;sometimes placed in genus scilla
sessile trillium;trillium of northeastern united states with sessile leaves and red or purple flowers having a pungent odor
clianthus formosus;sprawling shrubby perennial noted for its scarlet black-marked flowers. widely distributed in dry parts of australia
giant northwest shipworm;giant shipworm of the pacific coast of north america
pinus banksiana;slender medium-sized 2-needled pine of eastern north america. with yellow-green needles and scaly gray to red-brown fissured bark
mojave rattlesnake;extremely dangerous. most common in areas of scattered scrubby growth. from mojave desert to w. texas and into mexico
mantis crab;tropical marine burrowing crustaceans with large grasping appendages
celtis laevigata;deciduous shade tree with small black berries. southern united states. yields soft yellowish wood
breadfruit;native to pacific islands and having edible fruit with a texture like bread
bitch;female of any member of the dog family
colza;eurasian plant cultivated for its seed and as a forage crop
coreopsis tinctoria;north american annual widely cultivated for its yellow flowers with purple-red to brownish centers. in some classifications placed in a subgenus calliopsis
arborvitae;any of several asian and north american conifers of the genera thuja and thujopsis
cherimoya tree;small tropical american tree bearing round or oblong soft-fleshed fruit
indian senna;erect shrub having racemes of tawny yellow flowers. the dried leaves are used medicinally as a cathartic. sometimes placed in genus cassia
simarouba glauca;medium to large tree of tropical north and south america having odd-pinnate leaves and long panicles of small pale yellow flowers followed by scarlet fruits
salix pentandra;european willow tree with shining leathery leaves. widely naturalized in the eastern united states
pelargonium hortorum;an upright geranium having scalloped leaves with a broad color zone inside the margin and white or pink or red flowers
cinnamomum cassia;chinese tree with aromatic bark. yields a less desirable cinnamon than ceylon cinnamon
purple orchis;north american orchid having a spike of violet-purple flowers mixed with white. sepals and petals form a hood
centaurium scilloides;tufted perennial of western europe and azores having bright pink to white flowers
lupine;any plant of the genus lupin. bearing erect spikes of usually purplish-blue flowers
bastard indigo;erect to spreading hairy shrub of united states pacific coast having racemes of red to indigo flowers
bur marigold;any of several plants of the genus bidens having yellow flowers and prickly fruits that cling to fur and clothing
ursus arctos;large ferocious bear of eurasia
gnetum gnemon;small tropical tree with tiered branches and divaricate branchlets having broad glossy dark green leaves. exploited for its edible young leaves and seeds that provide a fine flour
alpine bearberry;deciduous creeping shrub bright red in autumn having black or blue-black berries. alpine and circumpolar
sac fungus;any of various ascomycetous fungi in which the spores are formed in a sac or ascus
sarcorhamphus papa;large black-and-white vulture of south and central america have colorful wattles and wartlike protuberances on head and neck
agastache mexicana;erect perennial of mexico having rose to crimson flowers
coral honeysuckle;evergreen north american honeysuckle vine having coral-red or orange flowers
waxberry;deciduous shrub of western north america having spikes of pink flowers followed by round white berries
barosaur;5-story-tall dinosaur
giant hornet;european hornet introduced into the united states
bastard feverfew;tropical american annual weed with small radiate heads of white flowers. adventive in southern united states
charronia flavigula;large yellow and black marten of s china and burma
wild hyacinth;sometimes placed in genus scilla
ribbon snake;slender yellow-striped north american garter snake. prefers wet places
leafnose bat;bat having a leaflike flap at the end of the nose. especially of the families phyllostomatidae and rhinolophidae and hipposideridae
cornish heath;bushy shrub having pink to white flowers. common on the moors of cornwall and in southwestern europe. cultivated elsewhere
pembroke welsh corgi;the smaller and straight-legged variety of corgi having pointed ears and a short tail
wicopy;deciduous shrub of eastern north america having tough flexible branches and pliable bark and small yellow flowers
mould;a fungus that produces a superficial growth on various kinds of damp or decaying organic matter
amoeba;naked freshwater or marine or parasitic protozoa that form temporary pseudopods for feeding and locomotion
layia platyglossa;california annual having flower heads with yellow rays tipped with white
grass finch;usually brightly-colored australian weaverbirds. often kept as cage birds
chimney swallow;american swift that nests in e.g. unused chimneys
wood tick;common tick that can transmit rocky mountain spotted fever and tularemia
ribbon fern;fern of north africa and azores and canary islands
black pine;new zealand conifer
enterovirus;any of a group of picornaviruses that infect the gastrointestinal tract and can spread to other areas (especially the nervous system)
tacca pinnatifida;perennial herb of east india to polynesia and australia cultivated for its large edible root yielding otaheite arrowroot starch
myxocephalus aenaeus;small sculpin of the coast of new england
wild thyme;aromatic dwarf shrub common on banks and hillsides in europe. naturalized in united states
heath violet;old world leafy-stemmed blue-flowered violet
tree wallaby;arboreal wallabies of new guinea and northern australia having hind and forelegs of similar length
tilia japonica;medium-sized tree of japan used as an ornamental
ash tree;any of various deciduous pinnate-leaved ornamental or timber trees of the genus fraxinus
secretary bird;large long-legged african bird of prey that feeds on reptiles
common yellowthroat;an american warbler
salt rush;rush of north american pacific coast
sonchus oleraceus;annual eurasian sow thistle with soft spiny leaves and rayed yellow flower heads
coccus;any spherical or nearly spherical bacteria
wild pansy;a common and long cultivated european herb from which most common garden pansies are derived
fuller s teasel;similar to the common teasel and similarly used. widespread in europe and north africa and western asia. naturalized in united states
tick;any of two families of small parasitic arachnids with barbed proboscis. feed on blood of warm-blooded animals
amniote;any member of the amniota
heartleaf;evergreen low-growing perennial having mottled green and silvery-gray heart-shaped pungent leaves. virginia to south carolina
red helleborine;orchid of mediterranean and asia having a lax spike of bright rose-pink flowers
vespula maculata;north american hornet
paroquet;any of numerous small slender long-tailed parrots
crete dittany;dwarf aromatic shrub of crete
helvella acetabulum;a helvella with a cup-shaped fertile body having a brown interior. the stalk is creamy white and heavily ribbed
pyrocephalus rubinus mexicanus;tropical american flycatcher found as far north as southern texas and arizona. adult male has bright scarlet and black plumage
seriphidium canum;low much-branched perennial of western united states having silvery leaves. an important browse and shelter plant
chenopodium bonus henricus;european plant naturalized in north america. often collected from the wild as a potherb
fur seal;eared seal of the s hemisphere. the thick soft underfur is the source of sealskin
diatom;microscopic unicellular marine or freshwater colonial alga having cell walls impregnated with silica
wax begonia;hybrid fibrous-rooted begonia having broad-ovate green to bronze- or black-red leaves and small clusters of white or pink or red flowers. widely used as a bedding plant
limestone salamander;similar to shasta salamander. lives in cliff crevices and taluses
threskiornis aethiopica;african ibis venerated by ancient egyptians
poor man s pulse;twining herb of old world tropics cultivated in india for food and fodder. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
water chestnut;a plant of the genus trapa bearing spiny four-pronged edible nutlike fruits
bentgrass;grass for pastures and lawns especially bowling and putting greens
regalecus glesne;thin deep-water tropical fish 20 to 30 feet long having a red dorsal fin
stictopelia cuneata;small australian dove
echidna;new guinea echidnas
narrow leaved spleenwort;north american fern with narrow fronds on yellowish leafstalks
guinea fowl;w african bird having dark plumage mottled with white. native to africa but raised for food in many parts of the world
european quaking aspen;old world aspen with a broad much-branched crown. northwestern europe and siberia to north africa
turtledove;small australian dove
silkgrass;valuable forage grass of dry upland areas and plains of western north america to northern mexico
anise;native to egypt but cultivated widely for its aromatic seeds and the oil from them used medicinally and as a flavoring in cookery
chrysopsis mariana;perennial golden aster of southeastern united states
suricate;burrowing diurnal meerkat of southern africa. often kept as a pet
maine lobster;lobster of atlantic coast of america
purple loosestrife;marsh herb with a long spike of purple flowers. originally of europe but now rampant in eastern united states
sandspur;grass of the eastern united states and tropical america having spikelets enclosed in prickly burs
bauhinia variegata;small east indian tree having orchidlike flowers and hard dark wood
flindersia australis;tall australian timber tree yielding tough hard wood used for staves etc
pelargonium limoneum;a common garden geranium with lemon-scented foliage
thrasher;large pelagic shark of warm seas with a whiplike tail used to round up small fish on which to feed
greater whitethroat;grayish-brown old world warbler with a white throat and underparts
panda;large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of china and tibet. in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family ailuropodidae
bernese mountain dog;large powerful long-haired black-coated swiss dog with deep tan or russet markings on legs and white blaze and feet and chest marking. formerly used for draft
hedge pink;plant of european origin having pink or white flowers and leaves yielding a detergent when bruised
jackass penguin;small penguin of south america and southern africa with a braying call
noctuid;usually dull-colored medium-sized nocturnal moth. the usually smooth-bodied larvae are destructive agricultural pests
hawkweed;any of various plants of the genus pilosella
gill over the ground;trailing european aromatic plant of the mint family having rounded leaves and small purplish flowers often grown in hanging baskets. naturalized in north america. sometimes placed in genus nepeta
medlar;small deciduous eurasian tree cultivated for its fruit that resemble crab apples
reseda luteola;european mignonette cultivated as a source of yellow dye. naturalized in north america
field bindweed;weakly climbing european perennial with white or pink flowers. naturalized in north america and an invasive weed
gnat;british usage
poisonous parasol;an agaric regarded as poisonous
polyporus frondosus;large grayish-brown edible fungus forming a mass of overlapping caps that somewhat resembles a hen at the base of trees
yellow rocket;noxious cress with yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus sisymbrium
brachyuran;typical crabs
malaclemys centrata;of marshes along atlantic and gulf coasts of united states
dangleberry;huckleberry of the eastern united states with pink flowers and sweet blue fruit
chainsaw;portable power saw. teeth linked to form an endless chain
velvet bent grass;common grass with slender stems and narrow leaves
cynoglossum amabile;biennial east asian herb grown for its usually bright blue flowers
satsuma;a variety of mandarin orange
maranta arundinaceae;white-flowered west indian plant whose root yields arrowroot starch
wormwood sage;silky-leaved aromatic perennial of dry northern parts of the northern hemisphere. has tawny florets
stock;not used technically. any animals kept for use or profit
callirhoe triangulata;densely hairy perennial having mostly triangular basal leaves and rose-purple flowers in panicled clusters
tufted pansy;european viola with an unusually long corolla spur
sarcocephalus esculentus;stout spreading or semiclimbing tropical shrub with round brownish-red warty fruit. africa
angora rabbit;domestic breed with long white silky hair
living rock;usually unbranched usually spineless cactus covered with warty tubercles and having magenta flowers and white or green fruit. resembles the related mescal. northeastern mexico and southwestern united states
cottonwood;american basswood of the allegheny region
record player;rotating records cause a stylus to vibrate and the vibrations are amplified acoustically or electronically
calabar bean vine;tropical african woody vine yielding calabar beans
petchary;a kingbird that breeds in the southeastern united states and winters in tropical america. similar to but larger than the eastern kingbird
neotoma fuscipes;host to lyme disease tick (ixodes pacificus) in northern california
tassel hyacinth;large beautiful mediterranean species having sterile bluish-violet flowers with fringed corollas forming a tuft above the fertile flowers
rosebud cherry;shrub or tree native to japan cultivated as an ornamental for its rose-pink flowers
pea crab;tiny soft-bodied crab living commensally in the mantles of certain bivalve mollusks
scorpaenoid;fishes having the the head armored with bony plates
primula;any of numerous short-stemmed plants of the genus primula having tufted basal leaves and showy flowers clustered in umbels or heads
maja squinado;large european spider crab
swallowwort;perennial herb with branched woody stock and bright yellow flowers
poster;a horse kept at an inn or post house for use by mail carriers or for rent to travelers
pan troglodytes schweinfurthii;long-haired chimpanzees of east-central africa including the gombe-kasakela population. closely related to the central chimpanzees
ibolium privet;fast-growing and tightly branched hybrid of ligustrum ovalifolium and ligustrum obtusifolium
bluestem;tall grass with smooth bluish leaf sheaths grown for hay in the united states
silene latifolia;bluish-green herb having sticky stems and clusters of large evening-opening white flowers with much-inflated calyx. sometimes placed in genus lychnis
new zealand wren;birds of new zealand that resemble wrens
scotch broom;deciduous erect spreading broom native to western europe. widely cultivated for its rich yellow flowers
alopex lagopus;thickly-furred fox of arctic regions. brownish in summer and white in winter
black moss;dense festoons of greenish-gray hairlike flexuous strands anchored to tree trunks and branches by sparse wiry roots. southeastern united states and west indies to south america
genus pithecanthropus;former genus of primitive apelike men now homo erectus
sicklepod;north american rock cress having very long curved pods
white dogtooth violet;north american dogtooth having solitary white flowers with yellow centers and blue- or pink-tinted exteriors
mountain rose;european alpine rose with crimson flowers
water hyacinth;a tropical floating aquatic plant having spikes of large blue flowers. troublesome in clogging waterways especially in southern united states
cyperus longus;european sedge having rough-edged leaves and spikelets of reddish flowers and aromatic roots
lotus;white egyptian lotus: water lily of egypt to southeastern africa. held sacred by the egyptians
mad dog skullcap;an american mint that yields a resinous exudate used especially formerly as an antispasmodic
japanese barberry;compact deciduous shrub having persistent red berries. widespread in cultivation especially for hedges
smooth haired fox terrier;a fox terrier with smooth hair
hazel;any of several shrubs or small trees of the genus corylus bearing edible nuts enclosed in a leafy husk
fairy armadillo;very small argentine armadillo with pale silky hair and pink plates on head and neck
blackburnian warbler;black-and-white north american wood warbler having an orange-and-black head and throat
game bird;any bird hunted as game
gaillardia pulchella;annual of central united states having showy long-stalked yellow flower heads marked with scarlet or purple in the center
pennisetum ruppelii;tall perennial ornamental grass with long nodding flower plumes of tropical africa and asia
aristolochia serpentaria;birthwort of the eastern united states woodlands
indigo broom;much-branched erect herb with bright yellow flowers. distributed from massachusetts to florida
big eared bat;large carnivorous old world bat with very large ears
amblyrhynchus cristatus;shore-dwelling seaweed-eating lizard of the galapagos islands
salpichroa rhomboidea;weedy vine of argentina having solitary white flowers followed by egg-shaped white or yellow fruit
codariocalyx motorius;erect tropical asian shrub whose small lateral leaflets rotate on their axes and jerk up and down under the influence of sunshine
orchid cactus;any cactus of the genus epiphyllum having flattened jointed irregularly branching stems and showy tubular flowers
salix pyrifolia;small shrubby tree of eastern north america having leaves exuding an odor of balsam when crushed
greater burdock;burdock having heart-shaped leaves found in open woodland, hedgerows and rough grassland of europe (except extreme n) and asia minor. sometimes cultivated for medicinal and culinary use
podiceps ruficollis;small european grebe
albizzia;any of numerous trees of the genus albizia
caimito;evergreen tree of west indies and central america having edible purple fruit star-shaped in cross section and dark green leaves with golden silky undersides
kalumpang;large tree of old world tropics having foul-smelling orange-red blossoms followed by red pods enclosing oil-rich seeds sometimes used as food
wake robin;any liliaceous plant of the genus trillium having a whorl of three leaves at the top of the stem with a single three-petalled flower
bishop s pine;2- or 3-needled pinon mostly of northwestern california coast
allium ampeloprasum;coarse old world perennial having a large bulb and tall stalk of greenish purple-tinged flowers. widely naturalized
california bluebell;desert plant of southern california with blue or violet tubular flowers in terminal racemes
bush;a low woody perennial plant usually having several major branches
saturniid;large brightly colored and usually tropical moth. larvae spin silken cocoons
pezophaps solitaria;extinct flightless bird related to the dodo
myrica gale;bog shrub of north temperate zone having bitter-tasting fragrant leaves
dugong dugon;sirenian tusked mammal found from eastern africa to australia. the flat tail is bilobate
brush turkey;black megapode of wooded regions of australia and new guinea
relative;an animal or plant that bears a relationship to another (as related by common descent or by membership in the same genus)
leucocytozoan;parasitic in birds
striped coral root;nearly leafless wildflower with erect reddish-purple stems bearing racemes of pale pinkish and brownish-striped flowers. western canada to mexico
lysichiton americanum;clump-forming deciduous perennial swamp plant of western north america similar to symplocarpus foetidus but having a yellow spathe
whistler;large north american mountain marmot
haliaeetus leucorhyphus;of southeast europe and central asia
cumfrey;perennial herbs of europe and iran. make rapidly growing groundcover for shaded areas
liquidambar;any tree of the genus liquidambar
plant louse;any of several small insects esp. aphids that feed by sucking the juices from plants
beefsteak plant;plant grown for its ornamental red or purple foliage
black greasewood;low hardy much-branched spiny shrub common in alkaline soils of western america
grama;pasture grass of plains of south america and western north america
indian banyan;east indian tree that puts out aerial shoots that grow down into the soil forming additional trunks
lily of the valley tree;broad-leaved evergreen asiatic shrub with glossy leaves and drooping clusters of white flowers
umbrina roncador;fish of north american pacific coast
catnip;hairy aromatic perennial herb having whorls of small white purple-spotted flowers in a terminal spike. used in the past as a domestic remedy. strongly attractive to cats
beach aster;slightly succulent perennial with basal leaves and hairy sticky stems each bearing a solitary flower head with narrow pink or lavender rays. coastal bluffs oregon to southern california
baptisia tinctoria;much-branched erect herb with bright yellow flowers. distributed from massachusetts to florida
swampy beggar ticks;bur marigold of eastern and northern united states and canada common in wet pastures and meadows
jupiter s beard;silvery hairy european shrub with evergreen foliage and pale yellow flowers
rye;hardy annual cereal grass widely cultivated in northern europe where its grain is the chief ingredient of black bread and in north america for forage and soil improvement
graptophyllum pictum;tropical old world shrub having purple or red tubular flowers and leaf markings resembling the profile of a human face
potamogale velox;amphibious african insectivorous mammal that resembles an otter
dwarf chestnut;shrubby chestnut tree of southeastern united states having small edible nuts
picea mariana;small spruce of boggy areas of northeastern north america having spreading branches with dense foliage. inferior wood
dovyalis caffra;vigorous south african spiny shrub grown for its round yellow juicy edible fruits
milk thistle;tall old world biennial thistle with large clasping white-blotched leaves and purple flower heads. naturalized in california and south america
striped marlin;pacific food and game fish marked with dark blue vertical stripes
phoenix dactylifera;tall tropical feather palm tree native to syria bearing sweet edible fruit
blow fly;large usually hairy metallic blue or green fly. lays eggs in carrion or dung or wounds
common morning glory;pantropical annual climbing herb with funnel-shaped blue, purple, pink or white flowers
umbrella tree;small deciduous open-crowned tree of eastern north america having creamy white flowers and large leaves in umbrellalike formations at ends of branches
cinchona officinalis;peruvian shrub or small tree having large glossy leaves and cymes of fragrant yellow to green or red flowers. cultivated for its medicinal bark
littleneck;a young quahog suitable to be eaten raw
blacksnake;blackish racer of the eastern united states that grows to six feet
rain tree;large ornamental tropical american tree withbipinnate leaves and globose clusters of flowers with crimson stamens and sweet-pulp seed pods eaten by cattle
crested cariama;brazilian cariama. sole representative of the genus cariama
varment;any usually predatory wild animal considered undesirable. e.g. coyote
brocket;male red deer in its second year
rattail cactus;commonly cultivated tropical american cactus having slender creeping stems and very large showy crimson flowers that bloom for several days
disciotis venosa;an edible morel with a cup-shaped or saucer-shaped fruiting body can be up to 20 cm wide. the fertile surface inside the cup has wrinkles radiating from the center. can be easily confused with inedible mushrooms
celosia argentea;weedy annual with spikes of silver-white flowers
cotton bollworm;larva of a noctuid moth. highly destructive to esp. corn and cotton and tomato crops
snakefly;predatory insect of western north america having a long necklike prothorax
angelique;any of various tall and stout herbs of the genus angelica having pinnately compound leaves and small white or greenish flowers in compound umbels
winter crookneck squash;any of various plants bearing hard-rinded squash having elongated recurved necks
philippine mahogany;philippine timber tree having hard red fragrant wood
epigaea repens;low-growing evergreen shrub of eastern north america with leathery leaves and clusters of fragrant pink or white flowers
running pine;a variety of clubmoss
lime;any of various related trees bearing limes
greater spearwort;semi-aquatic european crowfoot with spear-shaped leaves
cerripede;marine crustaceans with feathery food-catching appendages. free-swimming as larvae. as adults form a hard shell and live attached to submerged surfaces
ketembilla;small shrubby spiny tree cultivated for its maroon-purple fruit with sweet purple pulp tasking like gooseberries. sri lanka and india
nylghai;large indian antelope. male is blue-grey with white markings. female is brownish with no horns
sea tangle;any of various kelps esp. of the genus laminaria
raphanus sativus;eurasian plant widely cultivated for its edible pungent root usually eaten raw
dasypus novemcinctus;having nine hinged bands of bony plates. ranges from texas to paraguay
bacteriophage;virus parasitic in bacteria. multiplies within its host
pilosella aurantiaca;european hawkweed having flower heads with bright orange-red rays. a troublesome weed especially as naturalized in northeastern north america. sometimes placed in genus hieracium
black whale;small dark-colored whaled of united states atlantic coast. the largest male acts as pilot or leader for the school
polydactylus virginicus;found along western atlantic coast
grewia asiatica;drought-resistant asiatic treelike shrub bearing pleasantly acid small red edible fruits commonly used in sherbets
reaction engine;a jet or rocket engine based on a form of aerodynamic propulsion in which the vehicle emits a high-speed stream
orectolobus barbatus;shark of the western pacific with flattened body and mottled skin
wild carrot;a widely naturalized eurasian herb with finely cut foliage and white compound umbels of small white or yellowish flowers and thin yellowish roots
climbing hydrangea;climbing shrub with adhesive aerial roots having opposite leaves and small white flowers in terminal cymes. himalaya to taiwan and japan
barracuda;any voracious marine fish of the genus sphyraena having an elongated cylindrical body and large mouth with projecting lower jaw and long strong teeth
cheilanthes alabamensis;southeastern united states to northern mexico and jamaica
rosa damascena;large hardy very fragrant pink rose. cultivated in asia minor as source of attar of roses. parent of many hybrids
chicken roundworm;intestinal parasite of domestic fowl
vulture;any of various large diurnal birds of prey having naked heads and weak claws and feeding chiefly on carrion
california poppy;of pacific coast of north america. widely cultivated for its yellow to red flowers
molle;small peruvian evergreen with broad rounded head and slender pendant branches with attractive clusters of greenish flowers followed by clusters of rose-pink fruits
manna ash;southern mediterranean ash having fragrant white flowers in dense panicles and yielding manna
service tree;any of various north american trees or shrubs having showy white flowers and edible blue-black or purplish fruit
vinegar tree;deciduous shrubby tree or eastern north america with compound leaves that turn brilliant red in fall and dense panicles of greenish yellow flowers followed by crimson acidic berries
ibex;wild goat of mountain areas of eurasia and north africa having large recurved horns
sissu;east indian tree whose leaves are used for fodder. yields a compact dark brown durable timber used in shipbuilding and making railroad ties
anthericum torreyi;plant having basal grasslike leaves and a narrow open cluster of starlike yellowish-orange flowers atop a leafless stalk. southwestern united states. only species of anthericum growing in north america
oilfish;very large deep-water snake mackerel
bird of night;nocturnal bird of prey with hawk-like beak and claws and large head with front-facing eyes
virusoid;a plant virus with its rna arranged in a circular chromosome without a protein coat
blackjack oak;a common scrubby deciduous tree of central and southeastern united states having dark bark and broad 3-lobed (club-shaped) leaves. tends to form dense thickets
plaice;large european food fish
negaprion brevirostris;common shallow-water schooling shark of the atlantic from north carolina to brazil and off west africa. dangerous
peltandra virginica;perennial herb of the eastern united states having arrowhead-shaped leaves and an elongate pointed spathe and green berries
harvestman;spider-like arachnid with a small rounded body and very long thin legs
autumn sneezeweed;north american perennial with bright yellow late summer flowers flowers
stinking hellebore;digitate-leaved hellebore with an offensive odor and irritant qualities when taken internally
crotalaria sagitallis;tropical american annual herb having an inflated pod in which the ripe seeds rattle
whiteman s foot;common european perennial naturalized worldwide. a troublesome weed
sphagnum;any of various pale or ashy mosses of the genus sphagnum whose decomposed remains form peat
sarsaparilla;any of various prickly climbing plants of the tropical american genus smilax having aromatic roots and heart-shaped leaves
alpine celery pine;small shrubby celery pine of new zealand
blood cup;a scarlet european fungus with cup-shaped ascocarp
cherokee rose;chinese climbing rose with fragrant white blossoms
chrysopsis villosa;hairy perennial with yellow flower heads in branched clusters. found almost everywhere in dry places from canada to west central and western united states. sometimes placed in genus chrysopsis
monotropa uniflora;small waxy white or pinkish-white saprophytic woodland plant having scalelike leaves and a nodding flower. turns black with age
field lupine;white-flowered eurasian herb widely cultivated for forage and erosion control
red silk cotton tree;east indian silk cotton tree yielding fibers inferior to kapok
averrhoa bilimbi;east indian evergreen tree bearing very acid fruit
coracias garrulus;common european blue-and-green roller with a reddish-brown back
farm animal;not used technically. any animals kept for use or profit
blue lotus;blue egyptian lotus: held sacred by the egyptians
common mullein;tall-stalked very woolly mullein with densely packed yellow flowers. ancient greeks and romans dipped the stalks in tallow for funeral torches
olea cunninghamii;northern zealand tree having dense hard light-brown wood
forestiera;any plant of the genus forestiera
marasca cherry;dalmatian bitter wild cherry tree bearing fruit whose juice is made into maraschino liqueur
american bison;large shaggy-haired brown bison of north american plains
anas clypeata;freshwater duck of the northern hemisphere having a broad flat bill
sabbatia campestris;prairie herb with solitary lilac-colored flowers
jabiru;large mostly white australian stork
marum;mediterranean germander having small hairy leaves and reddish purple flowers. attractive to cats
black caraway;herb of the mediterranean region having pungent seeds used like those of caraway
smallpox virus;the virus that causes smallpox in humans
pollard;a usually horned animal that as either shed its horns or had them removed
sanderling;small sandpiper that breeds in the arctic and migrates south along sandy coasts in most of world
bouviers des flandres;rough-coated breed used originally in belgium for herding and guarding cattle
tamandu;small toothless anteater with prehensile tale and four-clawed forelimbs. of tropical south and central america
falcatifolium taxoides;rainforest tree or shrub of new caledonia having a conic crown and pale green sickle-shaped leaves. host species for the rare parasite yew
gopherus polypemus;burrowing edible land tortoise of southeastern north america
whiff;from new england to brazil
rose of jericho;densely tufted fern ally of southwestern united states to peru. curls up in a tight ball when dry and expands and grows under moist conditions
red elm;autumn-flowering elm of southeastern united states
black maire;northern zealand tree having dense hard light-brown wood
wryneck;old world woodpecker with a peculiar habit of twisting the neck
fiddlehead;new world fern having woolly cinnamon-colored spore-bearing fronds in early spring later surrounded by green fronds. the early uncurling fronds are edible
keurboom;tree with odd-pinnate leaves and racemes of fragrant pink to purple flowers
ichneumon fly;hymenopterous insect that resembles a wasp and whose larvae are parasitic on caterpillars and other insect larvae
copperhead;common coppery brown pit viper of upland eastern united states
spirodela polyrrhiza;cosmopolitan except south america and new zealand and some oceanic islands
planarian;free-swimming mostly freshwater flatworms. popular in laboratory studies for the ability to regenerate lost parts
plum fruited yew;south american evergreen tree or shrub
diospyros kaki;small deciduous asiatic tree bearing large red or orange edible astringent fruit
river gum;somewhat crooked red gum tree growing chiefly along rivers. has durable reddish lumber used in heavy construction
bog pimpernel;small creeping european herb having delicate pink flowers
barbados cherry;tropical american shrub bearing edible acid red fruit resembling cherries
japanese black pine;large japanese ornamental having long needles in bunches of 2. widely planted in united states because of its resistance to salt and smog
giant coreopsis;large treelike shrub having feathery leaves and clusters of large yellow flower heads. coastal southern california
conessi;tropical asian tree with hard white wood and bark formerly used as a remedy for dysentery and diarrhea
speckled trout;north american freshwater trout. introduced in europe
billfish;elongate european surface-dwelling predacious fishes with long toothed jaws. abundant in coastal waters
moss pink;low tufted perennial phlox with needlelike evergreen leaves and pink or white flowers. native to united states and widely cultivated as a ground cover
common vetchling;scrambling perennial eurasian wild pea having yellowish flowers and compressed seed pods. cultivated for forage
raphanus raphanistrum;eurasian weed having yellow or mauve or white flowers and podlike fruits
carlina acaulis;stemless perennial having large flowers with white or purple-brown florets nestled in a rosette of long spiny leaves hairy beneath. of alpine regions of southern and eastern europe
adelie penguin;medium-sized penguins occurring in large colonies on the adelie coast of antarctica
cynodont;small carnivorous reptiles
elops saurus;game fish resembling the tarpon but smaller
european wolf spider;large southern european spider once thought to be the cause of tarantism (uncontrollable bodily movement)
eacles imperialis;large american moth having yellow wings with purplish or brownish markings. larvae feed on e.g. maple and pine trees
cranberry tree;deciduous north american shrub or small tree having three-lobed leaves and red berries
kangaroo bear;sluggish tailless australian arboreal marsupial with gray furry ears and coat. feeds on eucalyptus leaves and bark
cowpen daisy;coarse grayish green annual yellow-flowered herb. southwestern united states to mexico
lomatia;any of various ornamental evergreens of the genus lomatia having attractive fragrant flowers
audad;wild sheep of northern africa
trumpets;pitcher plant of southeastern united states having erect wide-mouth yellow trumpet-shaped pitchers with erect lids
citrus maxima;southeastern asian tree producing large fruits resembling grapefruits
late purple aster;a variety of aster
pollywog;a larval frog or toad
marsh rosemary;any of various plants of the genus limonium of temperate salt marshes having spikes of whit or mauve flowers
paralichthys dentatus;flounder of eastern coast of north america
brassia lawrenceana;south american orchid with spiderlike pale-yellow to pale-green flowers
mountain lily;showy white-flowered perennial of new zealand
epizoa;any external parasitic organism (as fleas)
scarlet hamelia;handsome shrub with showy orange to scarlet or crimson flowers. florida and west indies to mexico and brazil
fawn;young deer
dictostylium;any slime mold of the genus dictostylium
western honey mesquite;thorny deep-rooted drought-resistant shrub native to southwestern united states and mexico bearing pods rich in sugar and important as livestock feed. tends to form extensive thickets
ophrys muscifera;european orchid whose flowers resemble flies
daddy longlegs;long-legged slender flies that resemble large mosquitoes but do not bite
stinkhorn;any of various ill-smelling brown-capped fungi of the order phallales. 'the foul smell of the stinkhorn attracts insects that carry the spores away on their feet'
varnish tree;small asiatic tree yielding a toxic exudate from which lacquer is obtained
spicebush;deciduous shrub of the eastern united states having highly aromatic leaves and bark and yellow flowers followed by scarlet or yellow berries
prairie crab;wild crab apple of western united states with fragrant pink flowers
habenaria fimbriata;north american orchid similar to habenaria psycodes with larger paler flowers
western gray squirrel;large gray squirrel of far western areas of united states
poker heuchera;plant with leathery heart-shaped leaf blades clustered at base of long stalks with greenish-white flowers clustered along the upper part. western north america
ring thrush;european thrush common in rocky areas. the male has blackish plumage with a white band around the neck
artichoke;mediterranean thistlelike plant widely cultivated for its large edible flower head
red breasted snipe;a dowitcher with a red breast
screech owl;small north american owl having hornlike tufts of feathers
plantain leaved pussytoes;a variety of pussytoes
ribes nigrum;widely cultivated current bearing edible black aromatic berries
plantain;a banana tree bearing hanging clusters of edible angular greenish starchy fruits. tropics and subtropics
nuytsia floribunda;a terrestrial evergreen shrub or small tree of western australia having brilliant yellow-orange flowers. parasitic on roots of grasses
humulus lupulus;european twining plant whose flowers are used chiefly to flavor malt liquors. cultivated in america
monkey pod;large ornamental tropical american tree withbipinnate leaves and globose clusters of flowers with crimson stamens and sweet-pulp seed pods eaten by cattle
anguilla sucklandii;new zealand eel
vervain;any of numerous tropical or subtropical american plants of the genus verbena grown for their showy spikes of variously colored flowers
anchusa capensis;anchusa of southern africa having blue flowers with white throats
begonia cocchinea;south american fibrous-rooted begonias having prominent basal leaf lobes suggesting angels' wings and racemes of coral-red flowers
cornflower aster;erect perennial of southeastern united states having large heads of usually blue flowers
aquatic fern;ferns that grow in water
conger eel;large somber-colored scaleless marine eel found in temperate and tropical coastal waters. some used for food
cypripedium calceolus;maroon to purple-brown orchid with yellow lip. europe, north america and japan
aromatic aster;a variety of aster
myxosporidian;mostly parasitic in fishes and including various serious pathogens
button fern;fern of new zealand and australia having trailing fronds with dark green buttonlike leaflets
monster;(medicine) a grossly malformed and usually nonviable fetus
sea trifoly;a small fleshy herb common along north american seashores and in brackish marshes having pink or white flowers
ananas comosus;a tropical american plant bearing a large fleshy edible fruit with a terminal tuft of stiff leaves. widely cultivated in the tropics
devon;red dual-purpose cattle of english origin
panda;reddish-brown old world raccoon-like carnivore. in some classifications considered unrelated to the giant pandas
aphid lion;carnivorous larva of lacewing flies
tropical prawn;edible tropical and warm-water prawn
vespertilionid;a variety of carnivorous bat
california condor;north american condor. chiefly dull black. almost extinct
corozo;any of several tropical american palms bearing corozo nuts
half free morel;a morel with the ridged and pitted fertile portion attached to the stipe for about half its length
satureia montana;erect perennial subshrub having pink or white flowers and leathery leaves with a flavor of thyme. southern europe
raccoon;omnivorous nocturnal mammal native to north and central america
english sparrow;small hardy brown-and-gray bird native to europe
silver bell tree;medium-sized tree of west virginia to florida and texas
plant;a living organism lacking the power of locomotion
tree sparrow;finch common in winter in the northern u.s.
texas star;prairie herb with solitary lilac-colored flowers
lesser centaury;common european glabrous annual centaury with flowers in dense cymes
chamaecyparis lawsoniana;large timber tree of western north america with trunk diameter to 12 feet and height to 200 feet
coon cat;raccoon-like omnivorous mammal of mexico and the southwestern united states having a long bushy tail with black and white rings
fortunella japonica;shrub bearing round-fruited kumquats
lonicera involucrata;shrubby honeysuckle with purple flowers. western north america
suricata tetradactyla;burrowing diurnal meerkat of southern africa. often kept as a pet
surf fish;fish of north american pacific coast
barnacle goose;european goose smaller than the brant. breeds in the far north
anole;small arboreal tropical american insectivorous lizards with the ability to change skin color
desert mariposa tulip;mariposa with clusters of bell-shaped vermilion or orange or yellow flowers atop short stems. southern california to arizona and mexico
cows;domesticated bovine animals as a group regardless of sex or age: 'so many head of cattle'. 'wait till the cows come home'. 'seven thin and ill-favored kine'- bible. 'a team of oxen'
elder;any of numerous shrubs or small trees of temperate and subtropical northern hemisphere having white flowers and berrylike fruit
virginia cowslip;smooth erect herb of eastern north america having entire leaves and showy blue flowers that are pink in bud
chokecherry tree;a common wild cherry of eastern north america having small bitter black berries favored by birds
avena fatua;common in meadows and pastures
dwarf flowering almond;small chinese shrub with smooth unfurrowed dark red fruit grown especially for its red or pink or white flowers
army worm;noctuid moth larvae that travel in multitudes destroying esp. grass and grain
hemachatus haemachatus;highly venomous snake of southern africa able to spit venom up to seven feet
christ s thorn;thorny eurasian shrub with dry woody winged fruit
mithridate mustard;foetid eurasian weed having round flat pods. naturalized throughout north america
sailor s choice;found from florida to brazil and gulf of mexico
platystemon californicus;california plant with small pale yellow flowers
coelacanth;fish thought to have been extinct since the cretaceous period but found in 1938 off the coast of africa
bitter pecan;hickory of southern united states having many narrow leaflets and rather bitter nuts
laurel sumac;small aromatic evergreen shrub of california having paniculate leaves and whitish berries. in some classifications included in genus rhus
ecrevisse;small crayfish of europe and asia and western north america
caranda;south american palm yielding a wax similar to carnauba wax
lovage;native to southern europe. cultivated for its edible stalks and foliage and seeds
lodgepole;shrubby 2-needled pine of coastal northwestern united states. red to yellow-brown bark fissured into small squares
swamp laurel;laurel of bogs of northwestern united states having small purple flowers and pale leaves that are glaucous beneath
clematis crispa;climber of southern united states having bluish-purple flowers
cat s claw;erect shrub with small if any spines having racemes of white to yellow flowers followed by curved pointed pods and black shiny seeds. west indies and florida
sweet corn plant;corn whose young ears are sweet and suitable for eating as a vegetable
turaco;large brightly crested bird of africa
sorgho;any of several sorghums cultivated as a source of syrup
cupressus pigmaea;rare small cypress native to northern california. sometimes considered the same species as gowen cypress
nycticorax nycticorax;night heron of both old and new worlds
wonder flower;south african perennial with long-lasting spikes of white blossoms that are shipped in to europe and america for use as winter cut flowers
jatropha curcus;small tropical american tree yielding purple dye and a tanning extract and bearing physic nuts containing a purgative oil that is poisonous in large quantities
babbler;any of various insectivorous old world birds with a loud incessant song. in some classifications considered members of the family muscicapidae
ibis;wading birds of warm regions having long slender down-curved bills
devilwood;small tree of southern united states having panicles of dull white flowers followed by dark purple fruits
pellaea ornithopus;cliff brake of california and baja california having purple-brown leafstalks
darning needle;slender-bodied non-stinging insect having iridescent wings that are outspread at rest. adults and nymphs feed on mosquitoes etc.
midge;minute two-winged mosquito-like fly lacking biting mouthparts. appear in dancing swarms esp. near water
columbian mammoth;a variety of mammoth
seasnail;any of several creeping marine gastropods with a spirally coiled shell: whelks. tritons. moonshells. neritids
racoon;omnivorous nocturnal mammal native to north and central america
artemisia vulgaris;european tufted aromatic perennial herb having hairy red or purple stems and dark green leaves downy white below and red-brown florets
orange milkweed;erect perennial of eastern and southern united states having showy orange flowers
pika;small short-eared burrowing mammal of rocky uplands of asia and western north america
domestic carp;large old world freshwater bottom-feeding fish introduced into europe from asia. inhabits ponds and sluggish streams and often raised for food. introduced into united states where it has become a pest
hammerhead shark;medium-sized live-bearing shark with eyes at either end of a flattened hammer-shaped head. worldwide in warm waters. can be dangerous
nightshade;any of numerous shrubs or herbs or vines of the genus solanum. most are poisonous though many bear edible fruit
aptenodytes patagonica;large penguin on islands bordering the antarctic circle
snowbird;medium-sized eurasian thrush seen chiefly in winter
watermelon;an african melon
boswellia serrata;east indian tree yielding a resin used medicinally and burned as incense
chlamyphore;very small argentine armadillo with pale silky hair and pink plates on head and neck
bilberry;erect european blueberry having solitary flowers and blue-black berries
encephalartos;any of numerous cycads of the genus encephalartos having stout cylindrical trunks and a terminal crown of long often spiny pinnate leaves
groundnut vine;a north american vine with fragrant blossoms and edible tubers. important food crop of native americans
erigeron annuus;widely naturalized white-flowered north american herb
java pepper;tropical southeast asian shrubby vine bearing spicy berrylike fruits
kentucky yellowwood;small handsome round-headed deciduous tree having showy white flowers in terminal clusters and heavy hardwood yielding yellow dye
leafhopper;small leaping insect that sucks the juices of plants
hygrophorus russula;an edible fungus with a reddish cap and close pale gills and dry stalk. found under hardwoods
sporting dog;a dog trained to work with sportsmen when they hunt with guns
sapodilla tree;large tropical american evergreen yielding chicle gum and edible fruit. sometimes placed in genus achras
daubentonia madagascariensis;nocturnal lemur with long bony fingers and rodent-like incisor teeth closely related to the lemurs
lionfish;brightly striped fish of the tropical pacific having elongated spiny fins
cardamine rotundifolia;mat-forming perennial found in cold springs of the eastern united states
petty whin;prickly yellow-flowered shrub of the moors of new england and europe
vanilla orchid;climbing non-ornamental orchid bearing a podlike fruit yielding vanilla beans. widely cultivated from florida southward throughout tropical america
arctostaphylos andersonii;erect california shrub having leaves with heart-shaped lobes at the base
architeuthis;largest mollusk known about but never seen (to 60 feet long)
golden pholiota;a beautiful yellow gilled fungus found from alaska south along the coast
fissurella apertura;marine limpet having a conical shell with an opening at the apex
calamagrostis acutiflora;a variety of reed grass
granny s bonnets;common european columbine having variously colored (white or blue to purple or red) short-spurred flowers. naturalized in united states
constrictor;any of various large nonvenomous snakes that kill their prey by crushing it in its coils
scottish deerhound;very large and tall rough-coated dog bred for hunting deer. known as the royal dog of scotland
blusher;yellowish edible agaric that usually turns red when touched
blue curls;any of several plants of the genus trichostema having whorls of small blue flowers
lammergeyer;the largest eurasian bird of prey. having black feathers hanging around the bill
brent goose;small dark geese that breed in the north and migrate southward
cliftonia monophylla;tree of low-lying coastal areas of southeastern united states having glossy leaves and racemes of fragrant white flowers
silurus glanis;large elongated catfish of central and eastern europe
american smokewood;shrubby tree of southern united states having large plumes of feathery flowers resembling puffs of smoke
diceros bicornis;african rhino. in danger of extinction
sand eel;very small silvery eellike schooling fishes that burrow into sandy beaches
black walnut;north american walnut tree with hard dark wood and edible nut
platanus orientalis;large tree of southeastern europe to asia minor
character printer;a printer that prints a single character at a time
pachycephalosaurus;bipedal herbivore having 10 inches of bone atop its head. largest bone-headed dinosaur ever found
alder fly;dark-colored insect having predaceous aquatic larvae
sumpter;an animal such as a mule or burro or horse used to carry loads
rhodymenia palmata;coarse edible red seaweed
biddy;adult female chicken
stiltbird;long-legged three-toed black-and-white wading bird of inland ponds and marshes or brackish lagoons
american licorice;north american plant similar to true licorice and having a root with similar properties
rock harlequin;glaucous herb of northeastern united states and canada having loose racemes of yellow-tipped pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus fumaria
troglodytes troglodytes;small wren of coniferous forests of northern hemisphere
streptosolen jamesonii;evergreen south american shrub having showy trumpet-shaped orange flowers. grown as an ornamental or houseplant
frijole;the common bean plant grown for the beans rather than the pods especially a variety with large red kidney-shaped beans
fuscoboletinus paluster;an edible fungus with a pinkish purple cap and stalk and a pore surface that is yellow with large angular pores that become gill-like in maturity
brier;a very prickly woody vine of the eastern united states growing in tangled masses having tough round stems with shiny leathery leaves and small greenish flowers followed by clusters of inedible shiny black berries
annelid;worms with cylindrical bodies segmented both internally and externally
corn spurrey;small european weed with whorled leaves and white flowers
leitneria floridana;very small deciduous dioecious tree or shrub of damp habitats in southeastern united states having extremely light wood
leporide;red breed of domestic rabbits. hybrid between old_world_rabbit and hare
cicer arietinum;asiatic herb cultivated for its short pods with one or two edible seeds
indian tobacco;north american wild lobelia having small blue flowers and inflated capsules formerly used as an antispasmodic
common bog rosemary;erect to procumbent evergreen shrub having pendent clusters of white or pink flowers. of sphagnum peat bogs and other wet acidic areas in northern europe
black hemlock;large evergreen of western united states. wood much harder than canadian hemlock
pricket;male deer in his second year
piping guan;a kind of guan
white sheep;large white wild sheep of northwestern canada and alaska
african violet;tropical african plant cultivated as a houseplant for its violet or white or pink flowers
long spurred violet;violet of eastern north america having lilac-purple flowers with a long slender spur
fall webworm;a variety of webworm
venus mercenaria;an edible american clam
western big eared bat;bat of western north america having extremely large ears
yellow foxtail;common weedy and bristly grass found in nearly all temperate areas
chinese evergreen;erect or partially climbing herb having large green or variegated leaves
pomegranate;shrub or small tree native to southwestern asia having large red many-seeded fruit
zygocactus truncatus;south american jointed cactus with usually red flowers. often cultivated as a houseplant. sometimes classified as genus schlumbergera
american brooklime;plant of western north america and northeastern asia having prostrate stems with dense racemes of pale violet to lilac flowers
elymus condensatus;stout perennial grass of western north america
musk kangaroo;small kangaroo of northeastern australia
cupressus goveniana pigmaea;rare small cypress native to northern california. sometimes considered the same species as gowen cypress
bos primigenius;large recently extinct long-horned european wild ox. considered one of the ancestors of domestic cattle
olive tree;a tree of the genus olea cultivated for its fruit
moth orchid;any of various orchids of the genus phalaenopsis having often drooping glossy broad obovate or oval leaves usually dark green flushed purple or mottled gray and silver
nerita;having short a smooth or spirally ridged shell with thick usually toothed outer lip and toothed operculum
musa ensete;large evergreen arborescent herb having huge paddle-shaped leaves and bearing inedible fruit that resemble bananas but edible young flower shoots. sometimes placed in genus musa
lacewing;any of two families of gauzy-winged insects (chrysopidae and hemerobiidae). larvae feed on insect pests such as aphids
dragon;any of several small tropical asian lizards capable of gliding by spreading winglike membranes on each side of the body
amaranthus albus;bushy plant of western united states
marsupial;mammals of which the females have a pouch (the marsupium) containing the teats where the young are fed and carried
teasle;any of several herbs of the genus dipsacus native to the old world having flower heads surrounded by spiny bracts
pill bug;small terrestrial isopod with a convex segmented body that can roll up into a ball
saddlebill;large black-and-white stork of tropical africa. its red bill has a black band around the middle
wild sweet pea;perennial subshrub of eastern north america having downy leaves yellowish and rose flowers and. source of rotenone
broad leaved plantain;north american plantain having reddish leafstalks and broad leaves
rubus parviflorus;white-flowered raspberry of western north america and northern mexico with thimble-shaped orange berries
iliamna remota;a rare mallow found only in illinois resembling the common hollyhock and having pale rose-mauve flowers. sometimes placed in genus sphaeralcea
benni;east indian annual erect herb. source of sesame seed or benniseed and sesame oil
asplenium nidus;tropical old world or australian epiphytic fern frequently forming tufts in tree crotches
redberry;small spiny evergreen shrub of western united states and mexico with minute flowers and bright red berries
podocarpus elatus;large australian tree with straight-grained yellow wood that turns brown on exposure
deer mouse;brownish new world mouse. most widely distributed member of the genus
canis dingo;wolflike yellowish-brown wild dog of australia
acidophile;an organism that thrives in a relatively acid environment
milkweed butterfly;large migratory american butterfly having deep orange wings with black and white markings. the larvae feed on milkweed
coigue;chilean evergreen whose leafy boughs are used for thatching
stinky squid;a stinkhorn of genus pseudocolus. the fruiting body first resembles a small puffball that soon splits open to form a stalk with tapering arms that arch and taper to a common point
marten cat;agile slender-bodied arboreal mustelids somewhat larger than weasels
soft shelled turtle;voracious aquatic turtle with a flat flexible shell covered by a leathery skin. can inflict painful bites
sisymbrium tanacetifolia;perennial stellate and hairy herb with small yellow flowers of mountains of southern europe. sometimes placed in genus sisymbrium
playlobium obtusangulum;low spreading evergreen shrub of southern australia having triangular to somewhat heart-shaped foliage and orange-yellow flowers followed by flat winged pods
muscat;any of several cultivated grapes used for wine and raisins
twayblade;orchid having a pair of ovate leaves and a long slender raceme of green flowers sometimes tinged red-brown. europe to central asia
vincetoxicum hirsutum;twining vine with hairy foliage and dark purplish-brown flowers
big toothed aspen;aspen with a narrow crown. eastern north america
reovirus;any of a group of rna viruses including the rotavirus causing infant enteritis
diplococcus;gram-positive bacteria usually occurring in pairs
teletype machine;a printing telegraph that operates like a typewriter
brown tail moth;small brown-and_white european moth introduced into eastern united states. pest of various shade and fruit trees
olive tree agaric;red luminescent mushroom of europe
collared lizard;any of several robust long-tailed lizards with collars of two dark bands. of central and western united states and northern mexico
native orange;small australian tree bearing edible dark purple fruit
amarelle;any of several cultivated sour cherry trees bearing pale red fruit with colorless juice
anteater;nocturnal burrowing mammal of the grasslands of africa that feeds on termites. sole extant representative of the order tubulidentata
bulblet bladder fern;north american fern often bearing bulbils on the leaflets
nail tailed kangaroo;small wallabies with a horny nail on the tip of the tail
rat s tail cactus;commonly cultivated tropical american cactus having slender creeping stems and very large showy crimson flowers that bloom for several days
cascade everlasting;shrub with white woolly branches and woolly leaves having fragrant flowers forming long sprays. flowers suitable for drying. sometimes placed in genus helichrysum
creeping snowberry;slow-growing procumbent evergreen shrublet of northern north america and japan having white flowers and numerous white fleshy rough-hairy seeds
catmint;hairy aromatic perennial herb having whorls of small white purple-spotted flowers in a terminal spike. used in the past as a domestic remedy. strongly attractive to cats
foal;a young horse
worm salamander;any of several small slim salamanders of the united states pacific coast
rickettsias;rod-shaped microorganisms resembling both bacteria and viruses. live in biting arthropods and cause disease in vertebrate hosts
purebred;a pedigreed animal of unmixed lineage. used especially of horses
coprinus atramentarius;having a cap that melts into an inky fluid after spores have matured
cestrum nocturnum;west indian evergreen shrub having clusters of funnel-shaped yellow-white flowers that are fragrant by night
horned chameleon;a kind of chameleon
european parsley fern;fern of europe and asia minor having short slender rhizome and densely tufted bright green parsleylike fronds
scarlet wisteria tree;soft-wooded tree with lax racemes of usually red or pink flowers. tropical australia and asia. naturalized in southern florida and west indies
archosargus probatocephalus;large (up to 20 lbs) food fish of the eastern coast of the united states and mexico
chrysanthemum ptarmiciflorum;shrubby perennial of the canary islands having white flowers and leaves and hairy stems covered with dust-like down. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
glycyrrhiza glabra;deep-rooted coarse-textured plant native to the mediterranean region having blue flowers and pinnately compound leaves. widely cultivated in europe for its long thick sweet roots
stilt;long-legged three-toed black-and-white wading bird of inland ponds and marshes or brackish lagoons
frilled lizard;large arboreal insectivorous australian lizard with a ruff of skin around the neck
red mulberry;north american mulberry having dark purple edible fruit
vermin;any of various small animals or insects that are pests. e.g. cockroaches or rats
satsuma tree;a variety of mandarin orange
crepe myrtle;ornamental e. indian shrub commonly planted in southern united states
garden spider;a common european garden spider
petunia integrifolia;herb or small shrublet having solitary violet to rose-red flowers
false mallow;genus of coarse herbs and subshrubs of arid north and south america having pink or scarlet flowers and globose fruits
canid;any of various fissiped mammals with nonretractile claws and typically long muzzles
mirabilis multiflora;wildflower having vibrant deep pink tubular evening-blooming flowers. found in sandy and desert areas from southern california to southern colorado and into mexico
coonhound;any of several breeds of hound developed for hunting raccoons
spruce squirrel;of northern united states and canada
dog bent;common grass with slender stems and narrow leaves
sorter;a machine for sorting things into classes
saurischian dinosaur;herbivorous or carnivorous dinosaur having a three-pronged pelvis like that of a crocodile
krubi;malodorous tropical plant having a spathe that resembles the corolla of a morning glory and attains a diameter of several feet
hesperis matronalis;long-cultivated herb having flowers whose scent is more pronounced in the evening. naturalized throughout europe to siberia and into north america
booby;small tropical gannet having a bright bill or bright feet or both
collared pika;similar to little chief hare and may be same species
western whiptail;active lizard having a network of dusky dark markings. of semiarid areas from oregon and idaho to baja california
python reticulatus;of southeast asia and east indies. the largest snake in the world
hog snapper;large wrasse of western atlantic. head of male resembles a pig's snout
chunga burmeisteri;argentinian cariama
kobus kob;an orange-brown antelope of southeast africa
wolf s bane;poisonous eurasian perennial herb with broad rounded leaves and yellow flowers and fibrous rootstock
goose grass;annual weedy grass used for hay
flowering ash;shrubby ash of southwestern united states having fragrant white flowers
kniphofia uvaria;clump-forming plant of south africa with spikes of scarlet flowers
mouse ear hawkweed;european hawkweed having soft hairy leaves. sometimes placed in genus hieracium
arizona wild cotton;shrub of southern arizona and mexico
myxomycete;a slime mold of the class myxomycetes
char;any of several small-scaled troutreturns as a character object the character in string in the position indicated by index. char may be used with setf.
physostegia virginiana;north american plant having a spike of two-lipped pink or white flowers
alpine enchanter s nightshade;an alpine variety of enchanter's_nightshade
carolina jasmine;poisonous woody evergreen vine of southeastern united states having fragrant yellow funnel-shaped flowers
ant bird;any of various dull-colored south american birds that feeding on ants some following army ant swarms
nicotiana tabacum;tall erect south american herb with large ovate leaves and terminal clusters of tubular white or pink flowers. cultivated for its leaves
zonal pelargonium;an upright geranium having scalloped leaves with a broad color zone inside the margin and white or pink or red flowers
oxalis pes caprae;south african bulbous wood sorrel with showy yellow flowers
animalculum;microscopic organism such as an amoeba or paramecium
pseudemys scripta;freshwater turtle of united states and south america. frequently raised commercially. some young sold as pets
stemless carline thistle;stemless perennial having large flowers with white or purple-brown florets nestled in a rosette of long spiny leaves hairy beneath. of alpine regions of southern and eastern europe
damson plum tree;plum tree long cultivated for its edible fruit
acorn barnacle;barnacle that attaches to rocks esp. in intertidal zones
winkle;edible marine gastropod
isurus paucus;similar to shortfin mako but darker blue
durum;wheat with hard dark-colored kernels high in gluten and used for bread and pasta. grown especially in southern russia, north africa, and northern central north america
australia chestnut;australian tree having pinnate leaves and orange-yellow flowers followed by large woody pods containing 3 or 4 seeds that resemble chestnuts. yields dark strong wood
phocaena phocaena;the common porpoise of the north atlantic and pacific
turdus migratorius;large american thrush having a rust-red breast and abdomen
butterweed;american ragwort with yellow flowers
harpullia cupanioides;fast-growing tree of india and east indies yielding a wood used especially for building
field chamomile;european white-flowered weed naturalized in north america
tarpon;large silvery game fish of warm atlantic coastal waters especially off florida
climbing bittersweet;twining shrub of north america having three-valved yellow capsules enclosing scarlet seeds
blue star;subshrubs of southeastern united states forming slow-growing clumps and having blue flowers in short terminal cymes
corydalus cornutus;large soft-bodied insect having long slender mandibles in the male. aquatic larvae often used as bait
wall pepper;mossy european creeping sedum with yellow flowers. widely introduced as a ground cover
calocarpum zapota;tropical american tree having wood like mahogany and sweet edible egg-shaped fruit. in some classifications placed in the genus calocarpum
beefwood;tree yielding hard heavy reddish wood
cuminum cyminum;dwarf mediterranean annual long cultivated for its aromatic seeds
avalanche lily;perennial herb having large white orange-marked flowers. found near snow line in northwestern united states
striped violet;leafy-stemmed violet of eastern north america having large white or creamy flowers faintly marked with purple
hypericum tetrapterum;european perennial st john's wort. ireland and france to western siberia
rainbow shower;deciduous ornamental hybrid of southeastern asia and hawaii having racemes of flowers ranging in color from cream to orange and red
common staghorn fern;commonly cultivated fern of australia and southeastern asia and polynesia
tooth shell;any of various seashore mollusks having a tapering tubular shell open at each end and a foot pointed like a spade for burrowing
dogfish;any of several small sharks
pasture brake;large coarse fern often several feet high. essentially weed ferns. cosmopolitan
lobworm;marine worms having a row of tufted gills along each side of the back. often used for fishing bait
ectoproct;sessile mosslike aquatic animal having the anus of the polyp outside the crown of tentacles
pipe vine;hardy deciduous vine having large leaves and flowers with the calyx tube curved like the bowl of a pipe
salpiglossis;any plant of the genus salpiglossis
iliamna ruvularis;perennial of northwestern united states and western canada resembling a hollyhock and having white or pink flowers
polygonatum commutatum;north american perennial herb with smooth foliage and drooping tubular greenish flowers
marsh wren;a wren of the genus cistothorus that frequents marshes
great bustard;largest european land bird
selene setapinnis;any of several silvery marine fishes with very flat bodies
american fly honeysuckle;erect deciduous north american shrub with red-tinged yellow-white flowers
dabchick;small european grebe
gumbo limbo;tropical american tree yielding a reddish resin used in cements and varnishes
nylghau;large indian antelope. male is blue-grey with white markings. female is brownish with no horns
tumbleweed;any plant that breaks away from its roots in autumn and is driven by the wind as a light rolling mass
plane tree;any of several trees of the genus platanus having thin pale bark that scales off in small plates and lobed leaves and ball-shaped heads of fruits
pongo pygmaeus;large long-armed ape of borneo and sumatra having arboreal habits
tanekaha;medium-tall celery pine of new zealand
rubus saxatilis;european trailing bramble with red berrylike fruits
partridge;small old world gallinaceous game birds
wild bean;a north american vine with fragrant blossoms and edible tubers. important food crop of native americans
lowland white fir;lofty fir of the pacific coast of northwestern america having long curving branches and deep green leaves
cow pony;a light saddle horse trained for herding cattle
alpine anemone;silky-foliaged herb of rocky mts with bluish-white flowers
triphammer;a massive power hammer. raised by a cam until released to fall under gravity
hemitripterus americanus;large sculpin of western atlantic. inflates itself when caught
chamaeleon;lizard of africa and madagascar able to change skin color and having a projectile tongue
artichoke plant;mediterranean thistlelike plant widely cultivated for its large edible flower head
erica;any plant of the genus erica
tagetes erecta;a stout branching annual with large yellow to orange flower heads. mexico and central america
manchester terrier;breed of short-haired black-and-tan terrier developed in manchester england
alectoris ruffa;common western european partridge with red legs
salvia leucophylla;silvery-leaved california herb with purple flowers
neanderthal;extinct robust human of middle paleolithic in europe and western asia
yellow honeysuckle;climbing deciduous shrub with fragrant yellow (later orange) flowers in terminal whorls. southeastern united states
egyptian vulture;small mostly white vulture of africa and southern eurasia
datura stramonium;intensely poisonous tall coarse annual tropical weed having rank-smelling foliage, large white or violet trumpet-shaped flowers and prickly fruits
pholistoma auritum;straggling california annual herb with deep purple or violet flowers. sometimes placed in genus nemophila
pan troglodytes troglodytes;black-faced chimpanzees of central africa. closely related to eastern chimpanzees
scarlet musk flower;viscid branched perennial of the southwestern united states and northern mexico having tuberous roots and deep red flowers
electric eel;eel-shaped freshwater fish of south america having electric organs in its body
blue jasmine;climber of southern united states having bluish-purple flowers
plantlike flagellate;unicellular organisms having many characteristics of typical algae
panda bear;large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of china and tibet. in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family ailuropodidae
newt;small usually bright-colored semiaquatic salamanders of north america and europe and north asia
lodgepole pine;shrubby 2-needled pine of coastal northwestern united states. red to yellow-brown bark fissured into small squares
sisham;east indian tree whose leaves are used for fodder. yields a compact dark brown durable timber used in shipbuilding and making railroad ties
coccus hesperidum;pest on citrus trees
ensete ventricosum;large evergreen arborescent herb having huge paddle-shaped leaves and bearing inedible fruit that resemble bananas but edible young flower shoots. sometimes placed in genus musa
mayflower;low-growing evergreen shrub of eastern north america with leathery leaves and clusters of fragrant pink or white flowers
squirrel;a kind of arboreal rodent having a long bushy tail
aralia spinosa;small deciduous clump-forming tree or shrub of eastern united states
bacteroid;a rodlike bacterium of the genus bacteroides
african bowstring hemp;bowstring hemp of south africa
mucuna aterrima;annual semi-woody vine of asia having long clusters of purplish flowers and densely hairy pods. cultivated in southern united states for green manure and grazing
pungapung;putrid-smelling aroid of southeastern asia (especially the philippines) grown for its edible tuber
pride of india;tree of northern india and china having purple blossoms and small inedible yellow fruits. naturalized in the southern united states as a shade tree
cuon alpinus;fierce wild dog of the forests of central and southeast asia that hunts in packs
broom beard grass;handsome hardy north american grass with foliage turning pale bronze in autumn
carcharhinus obscurus;relatively slender blue-gray shark. nearly worldwide in tropical and temperate waters
mad dog weed;an american mint that yields a resinous exudate used especially formerly as an antispasmodic
sarcochilus falcatus;diminutive australian orchid with loose racemes of fragrant white flowers with purple and orange markings on the lip
colicroot;any of several perennials of the genus aletris having grasslike leaves and bitter roots reputed to cure colic
myrobalan;small asiatic tree bearing edible red or yellow fruit. used in europe as budding stock
maggot;the larva of the housefly and blowfly commonly found in decaying organic matter
cudweed;perennial cottony-white herb of southwestern united states
tiger lily;east asian perennial having large reddish-orange black-spotted flowers with reflexed petals
clitocybe irina;an edible agaric with large silky white caps and thick stalks
queen s cup;plant with 1 or 2 white starlike flowers on short leafless stalks. alaska to california and east to oregon and montana
bulrush;tall rush with soft erect or arching stems found in eurasia, australia, new zealand, and common in north america
britt;the young of a herring or sprat or similar fish
oceanic whitetip shark;large deep-water shark with white-tipped dorsal fin. worldwide distribution. most dangerous shark
epacris purpurascens;small shrub of southern and western australia having pinkish to rosy purple tubular flowers
perca flavescens;north american perch
indian coral tree;small to medium-sized thorny tree of tropical asia and northern australia having dense clusters of scarlet or crimson flowers and black seeds
aplodontia rufa;bulky nocturnal burrowing rodent of uplands of the pacific coast of north america. the most primitive living rodent
incense cedar;any of several attractive trees of southwestern south america and new zealand and new caledonia having glossy evergreen leaves and scented wood
rhabdovirus;any of a group of rna viruses including those causing rabies
compass plant;any of several plants having leaves so arranged on the axis as to indicate the cardinal points of the compass
plant life;a living organism lacking the power of locomotion
cinchona lancifolia;colombian tree. source of cartagena bark (a cinchona bark)
mushroom coral;flattened disk-shaped stony coral usually solitary
chrysanthemum maximum;similar to oxeye daisy
cotton grass;any sedge of the genus eriophorum. north temperate bog plants with tufted spikes
aralia hispida;bristly herb of eastern and central north america having black fruit and medicinal bark
marine turtle;any of various large turtles with limbs modified into flippers. widely distributed in warm seas
puddingwife;bluish and bronze wrasse. found from florida keys to brazil
datura sanguinea;arborescent south american shrub having very large orange-red flowers
pternohyla fodiens;terrestrial burrowing nocturnal frog of grassy terrain and scrub forests having very hard upper surface of head. of the united states southwest
hog cranberry;evergreen mat-forming shrub of north america and northern eurasia having small white flowers and red berries. leaves turn red in autumn
pear hawthorn;erect and almost thornless american hawthorn with somewhat pear-shaped berries
cabbage tree;elegant tree having either a single trunk or a branching trunk each with terminal clusters of long narrow leaves and large panicles of fragrant white, yellow or red flowers. new zealand
texas armadillo;having nine hinged bands of bony plates. ranges from texas to paraguay
ferret;ferret of prairie regions of united states. nearly extinct
potato yellow dwarf virus;the virus that produces stunting and yellowing of the leaves of potato plants
cercis occidentalis;shrub of western united states having pink or crimson flowers. often forms thickets
ironweed;any of various plants of the genus vernonia of tropical and warm regions of especially north america that take their name from their loose heads of purple to rose flowers that quickly take on a rusty hue
aquilegia scopulorum calcarea;columbine of rocky mts having long-spurred blue flowers
crocodile bird;african courser that feeds on insect parasites on crocodiles
bullbrier;a very prickly woody vine of the eastern united states growing in tangled masses having tough round stems with shiny leathery leaves and small greenish flowers followed by clusters of inedible shiny black berries
smalltooth sawfish;commonly found in tropical bays and estuaries. not aggressive
redmaids;succulent carpet-forming plant having small brilliant reddish-pink flowers. southwestern united states
trillium sessile;trillium of northeastern united states with sessile leaves and red or purple flowers having a pungent odor
cedar of goa;tall spreading evergreen native to mexico having drooping branches. believed to have been introduced into portugal from goa its indian territory
tadpole shrimp;a kind of branchiopod crustacean
stizostedion vitreum;pike-like freshwater perches
mackerel;any of various fishes of the family scombridae
magnolia tripetala;small deciduous open-crowned tree of eastern north america having creamy white flowers and large leaves in umbrellalike formations at ends of branches
needle bush;shrub with pungent rigid needle-shaped leaves and white flowers. eastern australia
sheatfish;large elongated catfish of central and eastern europe
orchis spectabilis;north american orchid having a spike of violet-purple flowers mixed with white. sepals and petals form a hood
seriphidium maritimum;plants of western and northern european coasts
kentucky black bass;a variety of black bass
great leaved macrophylla;large deciduous shrub or tree of southeastern united states having huge leaves in dense false whorls and large creamy flowers tinged purple toward the base
silversword;low-growing plant found only in volcanic craters on hawaii having rosettes of narrow pointed silver-green leaves and clusters of profuse red-purple flowers on a tall stem
flight simulator;a ground-training machine that simulates the conditions of flying a plane
cerapteryx graminis;european moth with white antler-like markings on the forewings. the larvae damage pastures and grasslands
equisetum palustre;scouring-rush horsetail widely distributed in wet or boggy areas of northern hemisphere
spizella pusilla;common north american finch of brushy pasturelands
hawthorn;a spring-flowering shrub or small tree of the genus crataegus
coho;small salmon of north pacific coasts and the great lakes
coucal;old world ground-living cuckoo having a long dagger-like hind claw
watermelon vine;an african melon
babassu;tall feather palm of northern brazil with hard-shelled nuts yielding valuable oil and a kind of vegetable ivory
welsh;welsh breed of dual-purpose cattle
scarlet bush;handsome shrub with showy orange to scarlet or crimson flowers. florida and west indies to mexico and brazil
eptesicus serotinus;common european brown bat
american rattlebox;tropical american annual herb having an inflated pod in which the ripe seeds rattle
ostrya carpinifolia;medium-sized hop hornbeam of southern europe and asia minor
shark;any of numerous elongate mostly marine carnivorous fishes with heterocercal caudal fins and tough skin covered with small toothlike scales
swede;plant with a thick bulbous edible yellow root. used as food and animal feed
capercaillie;large black old world grouse
muskellunge;large (60 to 80 pounds) sport fish of north america
glycine max;erect bushy hairy annual herb having trifoliate leaves and purple to pink flowers. extensively cultivated for food and forage and soil improvement but especially for its nutritious oil-rich seeds. native to asia
goby;small spiny-finned fish of coastal or brackish waters having a large head and elongated tapering body having the ventral fins modified as a sucker
caddicefly;small moth-like insect having two pairs of hairy membranous wings and aquatic larvae
tragopan;brilliantly colored asian pheasant having wattles and two fleshy processes on the head
vine snake;slender arboreal snake found from southern arizona to bolivia
ipomoea nil;annual old world tropical climbing herb distinguished by wide color range and frilled or double flowers
ladybird beetle;small round bright-colored and spotted beetle that usually feeds on aphids and other insect pests
big cat;any of several large cats typically able to roar and living in the wild
firebush;densely branched eurasian plant. foliage turns purple-red in autumn
ceratopetalum gummiferum;australian tree or shrub with red flowers. often used in christmas decoration
dealfish;deep-sea ribbonfish
lampris guttatus;from nova scotia to west indies and gulf of mexico
lathyrus pratensis;scrambling perennial eurasian wild pea having yellowish flowers and compressed seed pods. cultivated for forage
miner s lettuce;succulent herb sometimes grown as a salad or pot herb. grows on dunes and waste ground of pacific coast of north america
limnodium spongia;american plant with roundish heart-shaped or kidney-shaped leaves. usually rooted in muddy bottoms of ponds and ditches
needle spike rush;fine-leaved aquatic spike rush. popular as aerator for aquariums
ivy geranium;a commonly cultivated trailing south american plant with peltate leaves and rosy flowers
thrinax morrisii;small stocky fan palm of southern florida and cuba
cercospora kopkei;fungus causing yellow spot (a sugarcane disease in australia)
arenaria groenlandica;boreal or alpine sandwort
belted kingfisher;grayish-blue north american kingfisher with a chestnut band on its chest
benne;east indian annual erect herb. source of sesame seed or benniseed and sesame oil
binturong;arboreal civet of asia having a long prehensile tail and shaggy black hair
camphor dune tansy;densely hairy plant with rayless flowers. san francisco bay area
rabbit eared bandicoot;bandicoot with leathery ears like a rabbit
cercidium floridum;densely branched spiny tree of southwestern united states having showy yellow flowers and blue-green bark. sometimes placed in genus cercidium
salvia reflexa;sage of western north america to central america having violet-blue flowers. widespread in cultivation
mew gull;the common gull of eurasia and northeastern north america
lansium domesticum;east indian tree bearing an edible yellow berry
hammerhead;medium-sized live-bearing shark with eyes at either end of a flattened hammer-shaped head. worldwide in warm waters. can be dangerous
berteroa incana;tall european annual with downy gray-green foliage and dense heads of small white flowers followed by hairy pods. naturalized in north america. sometimes a troublesome weed
typha angustifolia;reed maces of america, europe, north africa, asia
buckwheat;or member of genus fagopyrum. annual asian plant with clusters of small pinkish white flowers and small edible triangular seeds which are used whole or ground into flour
daikon;radish of japan with a long hard durable root eaten raw or cooked
black elderberry;common elder of central and eastern north america bearing purple-black berries. fruit used in wines and jellies
pedwood;european deciduous shrub turning red in autumn having dull white flowers
water shield;aquatic plant with floating oval leaves and purple flowers. in lakes and slow-moving streams. suitable for aquariums
arctic moss;an erect grayish branching lichen of arctic and even some north temperate regions constituting the chief food for reindeer and caribou and sometimes being eaten by humans
lyonia lucida;showy evergreen shrub of southeastern united states with shiny leaves and angled branches and umbel-like clusters of pink to reddish flowers
mountain heath;small shrub with tiny evergreen leaves and pink or purple flowers. alpine summits and high ground in asia and europe and united states
almond leaves willow;willow of the western united states with leaves like those of peach or almond trees
grebe;small compact-bodied almost completely aquatic bird that builds floating nests. similar to loons but smaller and with lobate rather than webbed feet
butter bean plant;bush bean plant cultivated especially in southern united states having small flat edible seeds
flora;a living organism lacking the power of locomotion
great white heron;the common american egret. a variety of the old world casmerodius albus
pimiento;plant bearing large mild thick-walled usually bell-shaped fruits. the principal salad peppers
derris;any of various usually woody vines of the genus derris of tropical asia whose roots yield the insecticide rotenone. several are sources of native fish and arrow poisons
guaiacum sanctum;small evergreen tree of the southern united states and west indies a source of lignum vitae wood
caloscypha fulgens;an early spring variety of discomycete with yellow to orange yellow lining of the cup
bird cherry;any of several small-fruited cherry trees frequented or fed on by birds
french honeysuckle;perennial of southern europe cultivated for forage and for its nectar-rich pink flowers that make it an important honey crop
equisetum variegatum;northern north america. greenland. northern and central europe
caretta caretta;very large carnivorous sea turtle. wide ranging in warm open seas
shiner;important food fish of the north atlantic and mediterranean. its body is greenish-blue with dark bars and small if any scales
common stinkhorn;a common fungus formerly used in preparing a salve for rheumatism
bamboo fern;fast-growing sturdy japanese fern. cultivated for their attractive broad dark-green pinnate fronds
eptesicus fuscus;rather large north american brown bat. widely distributed
lysimachia nummularia;a loosestrife vine
clusia flava;a west indies clusia having fig-shaped fruit
cortinarius semisanguineus;a fungus with a dry brown cap and rusty red gills and a yellowish stalk
pterodactyl;extinct flying reptile
veronica;any plant of the genus veronica
gempylus serpens;predatory tropical fishes with jutting jaws and strong teeth
cygnus columbianus bewickii;eurasian subspecies of tundra swan. smaller than the whooper
european creeper;common european brown-and-buff tree creeper with down-curved bill
arctium minus;ubiquitous in all but very acid soil. most of europe (except arctic caucasus) and north africa
carline thistle;a thistle of the genus carlina
eukaryote;an organism with cells characteristic of all life forms except primitive microorganisms such as bacteria. i.e. an organism with 'good' or membrane-bound nuclei in its cells
asplenium montanum;a spleenwort of eastern north america
gray catbird;north american songbird whose call resembles a cat's mewing
redtail;dark brown american hawk species having a reddish-brown tail
seaside alder;shrub or small tree of southeastern united states having soft light brown wood
peronospora tabacina;fungus causing a serious disease in tobacco plants characterized by bluish-gray mildew on undersides of leaves
post horse;a horse kept at an inn or post house for use by mail carriers or for rent to travelers
soma;leafless east indian vine. its sour milky juice formerly used to make an intoxicating drink
myrica pensylvanica;deciduous aromatic shrub of eastern north america with gray-green wax-coated berries
persian lilac;small densely branching asiatic shrub having lanceolate leaves and panicles of fragrant lilac flowers
titi;tree of low-lying coastal areas of southeastern united states having glossy leaves and racemes of fragrant white flowers
vinegarweed;aromatic plant of western united states
mexican beaded lizard;lizard with black and yellowish beadlike scales. of western mexico
dioscorea bulbifera;yam of tropical africa and asia cultivated for it large tubers
western blackberry;american blackberry with oblong black fruit
meadow lily;common lily of the eastern united states having nodding yellow or reddish flowers spotted with brown
barbarea verna;of southwestern europe. cultivated in florida
soapwort;plant of european origin having pink or white flowers and leaves yielding a detergent when bruised
monstera;any plant of the genus monstera. often grown as houseplants
spotted flycatcher;common european woodland flycatcher with grayish-brown plumage
common dogbane;north american perennial having pinkish flowers in loose cymes. used in folk medicine for pain or inflammation in joints
foraminifer;marine microorganism having a calcareous shell with openings where pseudopods protrude
euphorbia dentata;an annual weed of northeastern north america with dentate leaves
african daisy;any of several plants of the genus arctotis having daisylike flowers
stegosaurus;herbivorous ornithischian dinosaur with a row of bony plates along its back and a spiked tail probably used as a weapon
disc harrow;a harrow with a series of disks set on edge at an angle
bulldog;a sturdy thickset short-haired breed with a large head and strong undershot lower jaw. developed originally in england for bull baiting
arui;wild sheep of northern africa
red gum;red gum tree of tasmania
chestnut;any of several attractive deciduous trees yellow-brown in autumn. yield a hard wood and edible nuts in a prickly bur
mate;south american holly. leaves used in making a tealike drink
corydalis solida;herb of northern europe and asia having erect racemes of red flowers
gymnopilus ventricosus;a giant fungus of the pacific northwest. has a very thick stalk and the cortina leaves a ring high up on the stalk
cnidarian;radially symmetrical animals having saclike bodies with only one opening and tentacles with stinging structures. they occur in polyp and medusa forms
willow bell;perennial european bellflower with racemose white or blue flowers
pica pica hudsonia;magpie of rocky mountain regions
konini;erect deciduous shrub or tree to 10 feet with maroon-flushed flowers. new zealand
penguin;short-legged flightless birds of cold southern esp. antarctic regions having webbed feet and wings modified as flippers
equus quagga;mammal of south africa that resembled a zebra. extinct since late 19th century
fennel;any of several aromatic herbs having edible seeds and leaves and stems
chittamwood;shrubby tree of southern united states having large plumes of feathery flowers resembling puffs of smoke
horse cassia;tropical american semi-evergreen tree having erect racemes of pink or rose-colored flowers. used as an ornamental
planktonic algae;unicellular algae
short s aster;perennial of southeastern united states having usually blue flowers
calico cat;a cat having black and cream and yellowish markings
channel catfish;freshwater food fish common throughout central united states
juglans cinerea;north american walnut tree having light-brown wood and edible nuts. source of a light-brown dye
starfish;echinoderms characterized by five arms extending from a central disk
defoliator;an insect that strips the leaves from plants
toetoe;used by maoris for thatching
seneka snakeroot;eastern north american plant having a terminal cluster of small white flowers and medicinal roots
catclaw;erect shrub with small if any spines having racemes of white to yellow flowers followed by curved pointed pods and black shiny seeds. west indies and florida
shelf fungus;a woody fungus that forms shelflike sporophores
piper longum;slender tropical climber of east himalaya
emmer;hard red wheat grown especially in russia and germany. in united states as stock feed
lilium maritinum;orange-flowered lily of pacific coast of united states
tamus communis;common european twining vine with tuberous roots and cordate leaves and red berries
brown hyena;of southern africa
three cornered leek;european leek naturalized in great britain. leaves triangular in section
lyre snake;mildly venomous snake with a lyre-shaped mark on the head. found in rocky areas from southwestern united states to central america
stemless hymenoxys;perennial having tufted basal leaves and short leafless stalks each bearing a solitary yellow flower head. dry hillsides and plains of west central north america. sometimes placed in genus hymenoxys
abutilon theophrasti;tall annual herb or subshrub of tropical asia having velvety leaves and yellow flowers and yielding a strong fiber. naturalized in southeastern europe and united states
cinclus aquaticus;a water ouzel of europe
jewfish;large important food fish of australia. almost indistinguishable from the maigre
catharanthus roseus;commonly cultivated old world woody herb having large pinkish to red flowers
raetam;desert shrub of syria and arabia having small white flowers. constitutes the juniper of the old testament. sometimes placed in genus genista
indian python;very large python of southeast asia
rana tarahumarae;mexican frog found within a jump of two or water
hippobosca equina;winged fly parasitic on horses
blackfish;small dark-colored whaled of united states atlantic coast. the largest male acts as pilot or leader for the school
adelges abietis;a variety of adelgid
ornithorhynchus anatinus;small densely furred aquatic monotreme of australia and tasmania having a broad bill and tail and webbed feet. only species in the family ornithorhynchidae
pilea microphylla;tropical american stingless nettle that discharges its pollen explosively
lily of the nile;any of various plants of the genus agapanthus having umbels of showy blue to purple flowers
thanksgiving cactus;south american jointed cactus with usually red flowers. often cultivated as a houseplant. sometimes classified as genus schlumbergera
sheep;woolly usually horned ruminant mammal related to the goat
leucothoe racemosa;bushy deciduous shrub of the eastern united states with long racemes of pinkish flowers
honeydew melon;any of a variety of muskmelon vines having fruit with a smooth white rind and white or greenish flesh that does not have a musky smell
boxthorn;any of various shrubs or vines of the genus lycium with showy flowers and bright berries
thripid;any of various small to minute sucking insects with narrow feathery wings if any. they feed on plant sap and many are destructive
prunus cerasus austera;any of several cultivated sour cherry trees bearing fruit with dark skin and juice
chamaeleo oweni;a kind of chameleon
cherry plum;small asiatic tree bearing edible red or yellow fruit. used in europe as budding stock
woolly daisy;tiny gray woolly tufted annual with small golden-eyllow flower heads. southeastern california to northwestern arizona and southwestern utah. sometimes placed in genus eriophyllum
auk;black-and-white short-necked web-footed diving bird of northern seas
ceibo;small south american spiny tree with dark crimson and scarlet flowers solitary or clustered
mandrill;baboon of west africa with red and blue muzzle and hindquarters
rattlebox;any of various plants of the genus crotalaria having inflated pods within which the seeds rattle. used for pasture and green-manure crops
mesophyte;land plant growing in surroundings having an average supply of water. compare xerophyte and hydrophyte
golden rain;an ornamental shrub or tree of the genus laburnum. often cultivated for easter decorations
red goosefoot;herb considered fatal to swine
sun marigold;any of several south african plants grown for the profusion of usually yellow daisylike flowers and mounds of aromatic foliage
hamelia patens;handsome shrub with showy orange to scarlet or crimson flowers. florida and west indies to mexico and brazil
chaetodon;any fish of the genus chaetodon
plume poppy;herb of china and japan widely cultivated for its plumelike panicles of creamy white flowers
autotroph;plant capable of synthesizing its own food from simple organic substances
trichopteran;caddis fly
muscicapa striata;common european woodland flycatcher with grayish-brown plumage
sicklepod;cosmopolitan tropical herb or subshrub with yellow flowers and slender curved pods. a weed. sometimes placed in genus cassia
english hawthorn;thorny eurasian shrub of small tree having dense clusters of white to scarlet flowers followed by deep red berries. established as an escape in eastern north america
marihuana;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
bos taurus;domesticated bovine animals as a group regardless of sex or age: 'so many head of cattle'. 'wait till the cows come home'. 'seven thin and ill-favored kine'- bible. 'a team of oxen'
physalis peruviana;annual of tropical south america having edible purple fruits
viccinium myrtillus;erect european blueberry having solitary flowers and blue-black berries
iris xiphium;bulbous iris of western mediterranean region having usually violet-purple flowers
taricha granulosa;newt of humid coast from alaska to southern california
alectura lathami;black megapode of wooded regions of australia and new guinea
monkfish;fishes having large mouths with a wormlike filament attached for luring prey
golden thistle;any of several spiny mediterranean herbs of the genus scolymus having yellow flower heads
bluebell;sometimes placed in genus scilla
plesiosaurus;extinct marine reptile with a small head on a long neck a short tail and four paddle-shaped limbs. of the jurassic and cretaceous
robin redbreast;small old world songbird with a reddish breast
wych elm;eurasian elm often planted as a shade tree
phlox;any polemoniaceous plant of the genus phlox. chiefly north american. cultivated for their clusters of flowers
iva xanthifolia;tall annual marsh elder common in moist rich soil is central north america that can cause contact dermatitis. produces much pollen that is a major cause of hay fever
chickpea;asiatic herb cultivated for its short pods with one or two edible seeds
drymarchon corais;large dark-blue nonvenomous snake that invades burrows. found in southern north america and mexico
sled dog;a dog trained to draw a sled usually in a team
quiscalus quiscula;eastern united states grackle
dinocerate;an extinct ungulate
mung bean;erect bushy annual widely cultivated in warm regions of india and indonesia and united states for forage and especially its edible seeds. chief source of bean sprouts used in chinese cookery. sometimes plaaaced in genus phaseolus
black crowned night heron;night heron of both old and new worlds
anteater;burrowing spine-covered monotreme of australia having a long snout and claws for hunting ants and termites
whitlavia;desert plant of southern california with blue or violet tubular flowers in terminal racemes
flat pea;european perennial with mottled purple-pink flowers. sometimes cultivated for fodder or as green manure
bitterwood;west indian tree yielding the drug jamaica quassia
red coral;corals of esp. the mediterranean having pink or red color used for ornaments and jewelry
antlion fly;winged insect resembling a dragonfly. the larvae (doodlebugs) dig conical pits where they wait to catch e.g. ants
valerian;a plant of the genus valeriana having lobed or dissected leaves and cymose white or ink flowers
burchell s zebra;of the plains of central and eastern africa
cuscus;woolly-haired monkey-like arboreal marsupial of new guinea and north australia
lotus berthelotii;low-growing much-branched perennial of canary islands having orange-red to scarlet or purple flowers. naturalized in united states
nandu;smaller of two tall fast-running flightless birds similar to ostriches but three-toed. found from peru to straits of magellan
swamp ash;small ash of swampy areas of southeastern united states
circus pygargus;brownish european harrier
io moth;large yellow american moth having a large eyelike spot on each hind wing. the larvae have stinging spines
yellow honeysuckle;twining deciduous shrub with clusters of purple-tinged yellow-green flowers. northeastern america
vetchling;any of various small plants of the genus lathyrus. climb usually by means of tendrils
loggerhead turtle;very large carnivorous sea turtle. wide ranging in warm open seas
bobtail;large sheepdog with a profuse shaggy blue-gray-and-white coat and short tail. believed to trace back to roman occupation of britain
zamia pumila;small tough woody zamia of florida and west indies and cuba. roots and half-buried stems yield an arrowroot
earless lizard;any of several slender lizards without external ear openings: of plains of western united states and mexico
mustela rixosa;of canada and northeastern united states
greenhood;any of numerous orchids of the genus pterostylis having leaves in a basal rosette and green flowers often striped purple or brown or red with the dorsal sepal incurved to form a hood
feeder;an animal being fattened or suitable for fattening
sourwood;deciduous shrubby tree of eastern north america having deeply fissured bark and sprays of small fragrant white flowers and sour-tasting leaves
dobson;large soft-bodied insect having long slender mandibles in the male. aquatic larvae often used as bait
sago palm;dwarf palmlike cycad of japan that yields sago
mountain fetterbush;ornamental evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having small white bell-shaped flowers
galictis vittatus;carnivore of central and south america resembling a weasel with a grayish-white back and dark underparts
johnson grass;tall perennial grass that spreads by creeping rhizomes and is grown for fodder. naturalized in southern united states where it is a serious pest on cultivated land
amianthum muscaetoxicum;all parts of plant are highly toxic. bulb pounded and used as a fly poison. sometimes placed in subfamily melanthiaceae
proboscidean;massive herbivorous mammals having tusks and a long trunk
cucumber;a melon vine of the genus cucumis. cultivated from earliest times for its cylindrical green fruit
painted tortoise;freshwater turtles having bright yellow and red markings. common in the eastern united states
sorrel;east indian sparsely prickly annual herb or perennial subshrub widely cultivated for its fleshy calyxes used in tarts and jelly and for its bast fiber
entozoon;any of various parasites that live in the internal organs of animals (especially intestinal worms)
lactuca sativa capitata;distinguished by leaves arranged in a dense rosette that develop into a compact ball
polygala lutea;bog plant of pine barrens of southeastern united states having spikes of irregular yellow-orange flowers
tetraneuris grandiflora;whitish hairy plant with featherlike leaves and a few stout stems each bearing an especially handsome solitary large yellow flower head. mountainous regions north central united states
jerusalem oak;eurasian aromatic oak-leaved goosefoot with many yellow-green flowers. naturalized north america
glechoma hederaceae;trailing european aromatic plant of the mint family having rounded leaves and small purplish flowers often grown in hanging baskets. naturalized in north america. sometimes placed in genus nepeta
lemonwood tree;south african evergreen having hard tough wood
hemipteran;insects with sucking mouthparts and forewings thickened and leathery at the base. usually show incomplete metamorphosis
sea slug;any of various marine gastropods of the suborder nudibranchia having a shell-less and often beautifully colored body
tamarindus indica;long-lived tropical evergreen tree with a spreading crown and feathery evergreen foliage and fragrant flowers yielding hard yellowish wood and long pods with edible chocolate-colored acidic pulp
fool s huckleberry;straggling shrub of northwestern north america having foliage with a bluish tinge and umbels of small bell-shaped flowers
couch grass;european grass spreading rapidly by creeping rhizomes. naturalized in north america as a weed
dracontium;any plant of the genus dracontium. strongly malodorous tropical american plants usually with gigantic leaves
xenicus gilviventris;short-tailed bird resembling a wren
ground cherry;any of numerous cosmopolitan annual or perennial herbs of the genus physalis bearing edible fleshy berries enclosed in a bladderlike husk. some cultivated for their flowers
catgut;perennial subshrub of eastern north america having downy leaves yellowish and rose flowers and. source of rotenone
epacris;any heathlike evergreen shrub of the genus epacris grown for their showy and crowded spikes of small bell-shaped or tubular flowers
poker alumroot;plant with leathery heart-shaped leaf blades clustered at base of long stalks with greenish-white flowers clustered along the upper part. western north america
jamaica quassia;west indian tree yielding the drug jamaica quassia
hoary marmot;large north american mountain marmot
early wake robin;a low perennial white-flowered trillium found in the southeastern united states
angus;black hornless breed from scotland
water bird;freshwater aquatic bird
muskus grass;low annual european herb naturalized in america. similar to alfilaria
lotus corniculatus;european forage plant having claw-shaped pods introduced in america
croton eluteria;west indian shrub with aromatic bark
kakatoe leadbeateri;white australian cockatoo with roseate tinged plumage
mother of thousands;eastern asiatic saxifrage with racemes of small red-and-white flowers. spreads by numerous creeping stolons
white dead nettle;european dead nettle with white flowers
martin;any of various swallows with squarish or slightly forked tail and long pointed wings. migrate around martinmas
bells of ireland;aromatic annual with a tall stems of small whitish flowers enclosed in a greatly enlarged saucer- or bell-shaped calyx
measuring worm;small hairless caterpillar having legs on only its front and rear segments. mostly larvae of moths of the family geometridae
iris foetidissima;iris with purple flowers and evil-smelling leaves. southern and western europe and north africa
tongue worm;wormlike arthropod having two pairs of hooks at the sides of the mouth. parasitic in nasal sinuses of mammals
freshwater mussel;bivalve mollusk abundant in rivers of central united states
canyon oak;medium-sized evergreen of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico with oblong leathery often spiny-edged leaves
goldfinch;american finch whose male has yellow body plumage in summer
chickeree;far western united states counterpart of the red squirrel
sickle medick;european medic naturalized in north america having yellow flowers and sickle-shaped pods
cliff rose;tufted thrift of seacoasts and mountains of north temperate zone. occasionally grown as a ground cover
old maid;any of various plants of the genus zinnia cultivated for their variously and brightly colored flower heads
holly;any tree or shrub of the genus ilex
mugil liza;similar to the striped mullet and takes its place in the caribbean region
gentianella quinquefolia;gentian of eastern north america having clusters of bristly blue flowers
zigadene;any of various plants of the genus zigadenus having glaucous leaves and terminal racemes of mostly white flowers. all are poisonous
argyrotaenia citrana;california moth whose larvae live in esp. oranges
millet;any of various small-grained annual cereal and forage grasses of the genera panicum, echinochloa, setaria, sorghum, and eleusine
gramophone;an antique record player. the sound of the vibrating needle is amplified acoustically
police dog;any dog trained to assist police esp. in tracking
smelt;small trout-like silvery marine or freshwater food fishes of cold northern waters
polyergus rufescens;small reddish slave-making ant species
flour weevil;infests flour and stored grains
kerry blue terrier;an irish breed of medium-sized terriers with a silky blue-gray coat
wingnut;any tree of the genus pterocarya. fruit is a small winged nutlet. caucasus to southeastern asia
cabbage;any of various cultivars of the genus brassica oleracea grown for their edible leaves or flowers
strobilomyces floccopus;edible mild-tasting mushroom found in coniferous woodlands of eastern north america
bark louse;any of several insects living on the bark of plants
ostrich fern;tall fern of northern temperate regions having graceful arched fronds and sporophylls resembling ostrich plumes
basket ash;vigorous spreading north american tree having dark brown heavy wood. leaves turn gold in autumn
scorpionfish;marine fishes having a tapering body with an armored head and venomous spines
smiledon californicus;north american sabertooth. culmination of sabertooth development
asplenium rhizophyllum;ferns having lanceolate fronds that root at the tip
fox shark;large pelagic shark of warm seas with a whiplike tail used to round up small fish on which to feed
silene;any plant of the genus silene
guava bush;small tropical american shrubby tree. widely cultivated in warm regions for its sweet globular yellow fruit
tarrietia argyrodendron;australian timber tree
joshua tree;a large branched arborescent yucca of southwestern united states having short leaves and clustered greenish white flowers
gosan chiku;small bamboo of southeastern china having slender culms flexuous when young
grape;any of numerous woody vines of genus vitis bearing clusters of edible berries
leaf foot bug;large sap-sucking bug with leaflike expansions on the legs
soft flag;reed maces of america, europe, north africa, asia
cypripedium montanum;leafy plant having a few stems in a clump with 1 white and dull purple flower in each upper leaf axil. alaska to northern california and wyoming
xyphophorus helleri;freshwater fish of central america having a long swordlike tail. popular aquarium fish
sarcoptid;whitish mites that attack the skin of humans and other animals. 'itch mites cause scabies'
lithospermum canescens;perennial north american plant with grayish hairy foliage yielding a red or yellow pigment
southern maidenhair;delicate maidenhair fern with slender shining black leaf stalks. cosmopolitan
sandpiper;any of numerous usually small wading birds having a slender bill and piping call. closely related to the plovers
christ s thorn;spiny tree having dark red edible fruits
styrax;any shrub or small tree of the genus styrax having fragrant bell-shaped flowers that hang below the dark green foliage
stinkpot;small freshwater turtle having a strong musky odor
matrix printer;a printer in which each character is represented by a pattern of dots
paddymelon;small reddish-brown wallabies of scrubby areas of australia and new guinea
pinus palustris;large 3-needled pine of southeastern united states having very long needles and gnarled twisted limbs. bark is red-brown deeply ridgedged. an important timber tree
daisybush;any of various mostly australian attractively shaped shrubs of the genus olearia grown for their handsome and sometimes fragrant evergreen foliage and profusion of daisy flowers with white or purple or blue rays
viviparous eelpout;an eelpout of northern europe that is viviparous
mournful widow;old world annual having fragrant purple to deep crimson flower heads. naturalized in united states
christmasberry;ornamental evergreen treelike shrub of united states pacific coast having large white flowers and red berrylike fruits. often placed in genus photinia
scott s spleenwort;common north american fern with polished black stripes
bow wood;small shrubby deciduous yellowwood tree of south central united states having spines, glossy dark green leaves and inedible orangelike fruit. its hard orange-colored wood used for bows by native americans. frequently planted as boundary hedge
bear grass;plant of western north america having woody rhizomes and tufts of stiff grasslike basal leaves and spikes of creamy white flowers
hairy finger grass;a european forage grass grown for hay. a naturalized weed in united states
cushion calamint;aromatic herb having heads of small pink or whitish flowers. widely distributed in united states, europe and asia
croton;grown in many varieties for their brightly colored foliage. widely cultivated as a houseplant
native bear;sluggish tailless australian arboreal marsupial with gray furry ears and coat. feeds on eucalyptus leaves and bark
egyptian cat;a domestic cat of egypt
anthriscus sylvestris;coarse erect biennial old world herb introduced as a weed in eastern north america
kangaroo rat;any of various leaping rodents of desert regions of north america and mexico. largest members of the family heteromyidae
aristolochia clematitis;creeping plant having curving flowers thought to resemble fetuses. native to europe. naturalized great britain and eastern north america
yanquapin;water lily of eastern north america having pale yellow blossoms and edible globular nutlike seeds
tilia heterophylla;american basswood of the allegheny region
flame flower;plant with fleshy roots and erect stems with narrow succulent leaves and 1 reddish-orange flower in each upper leaf axil. southwestern united states. indians once cooked the fleshy roots
crested wheatgrass;eurasian grass grown in united states great plains area for forage and erosion control
lycaenid;any of various butterflies of the family lycaenidae
ten day fern;widely distributed fern of tropical southern hemisphere having leathery pinnatifid fronds
metasequoia glyptostrodoides;large fast-growing chinese monoecious tree having flat bright-green deciduous leaves and small globular cones. commonly cultivated in united states as an ornamental. known as a fossil before being discovered in china
abacus;performs arithmetic functions by manually sliding counters on rods or in grooves
buxus sempervirens;large slow-growing multistemmed evergreen shrub or small tree. extensively used for hedges or borders and topiary figures
episcia dianthiflora;low-growing creeping perennial of central america having deeply fringed white flowers. sometimes placed in genus episcia
cape jessamine;evergreen shrub widely cultivated for its large fragrant waxlike white flowers and glossy leaves
beta vulgaris cicla;beet lacking swollen root. grown as a vegetable for its edible leaves and stalks
rock sunfish;game and food fish of upper mississippi and great lakes
blackcap;chickadee having a dark crown
sealyham terrier;a welsh terrier first bred in sealyham (wales)
silver tree;small south african tree with long silvery silky foliage
roble;tall graceful deciduous california oak having leathery leaves and slender pointed acorns
brent;small dark geese that breed in the north and migrate southward
helleborus foetidus;digitate-leaved hellebore with an offensive odor and irritant qualities when taken internally
kitembilla;small shrubby spiny tree cultivated for its maroon-purple fruit with sweet purple pulp tasking like gooseberries. sri lanka and india
addax nasomaculatus;large antelope with lightly spiraled horns of desert regions of north africa
calabazilla;perennial vine of dry parts of central and southwestern united states and mexico having small hard mottled green inedible fruit
rumex scutatus;low perennial with small silvery-green ovate to hastate leaves
turreae;any of numerous trees and shrubs grown for their beautiful glossy foliage and sweetly fragrant starry flowers
sweet marjoram;aromatic european plant native to mediterranean and turkey. not widespread in europe
chinese gooseberry;climbing vine native to china. cultivated in new zealand for its fuzzy edible green-meated fruit
eriocaulon aquaticum;aquatic perennial of north america and ireland and hebrides having translucent green leaves in a basal spiral and dense buttonlike racemes of minute white flowers
mustang;small hardy range horse of the western plains descended from horses brought by the spanish
anemopsis californica;stonoliferous herb of southwestern united states and mexico having a pungent rootstock and small spicate flowers with white bracts suggesting an anemone
secale cereale;hardy annual cereal grass widely cultivated in northern europe where its grain is the chief ingredient of black bread and in north america for forage and soil improvement
clematis;any of various ornamental climbing plants of the genus clematis usually having showy flowers
kingwood tree;brazilian tree yielding a handsome cabinet wood
leycesteria formosa;shrub honeysuckle with drooping spikes of purplish flowers
common wasp;a variety of vespid wasp
lutjanus griseus;found in shallow waters off the coast of florida
apus apus;common european bird with a shrieking call that nests chiefly about eaves of buildings or on cliffs
love in idleness;a common and long cultivated european herb from which most common garden pansies are derived
japanese hop;ornamental vine native to eastern asia. cultivated for its variegated foliage
quercus grosseserrata;oak with moderately light fine-grained wood. japan
frostweed;tall perennial herb having clusters of white flowers. the eastern united states
copernicia cerifera;brazilian fan palm having an edible root. source of a useful leaf fiber and a brittle yellowish wax
diphylla ecaudata;similar in size and habits to desmodus rotundus. of tropical america including southern california and texas
maraschino cherry;dalmatian bitter wild cherry tree bearing fruit whose juice is made into maraschino liqueur
musk mallow;bushy herb of tropical asia grown for its yellow or pink to scarlet hibiscuslike blooms
arenaria peploides;perennial succulent herb with small solitary axillary or terminal flowers
masticophis flagellum;a whipsnake of southern united states and mexico. tail resembles a braided whip
eschalot;type of onion plant producing small clustered mild-flavored bulbs used as seasoning
bunting;any of numerous seed-eating songbirds of europe or north america
american watercress;mat-forming perennial found in cold springs of the eastern united states
lorikeet;any of various small lories
parsnip;a strong-scented plant cultivated for its edible root
clusia;an aromatic tree of the genus clusia having large white or yellow or pink flowers
chimonanthus praecox;deciduous japanese shrub cultivated for its fragrant yellow flowers
adelges piceae;a variety of adelgid
tayassu angulatus;dark gray peccary with an indistinct white collar. of semi desert areas of mexico and southwestern united states
psidium guajava;small tropical american shrubby tree. widely cultivated in warm regions for its sweet globular yellow fruit
northern bobwhite;a favorite game bird of eastern and central united states
reseda odorata;mediterranean woody annual widely cultivated for its dense terminal spikelike clusters greenish or yellowish white flowers having an intense spicy fragrance
rubber boa;boa of grasslands and woodlands of western north america. looks and feels like rubber with tail and head of similar shape
american kestrel;small north american falcon
spanish elm;large tropical american tree of the genus cordia grown for its abundant creamy white flowers and valuable wood
kob;an orange-brown antelope of southeast africa
eucalyptus delegatensis;tall timber tree with hard heavy pinkish or light brown wood
shellflower;cultivated for its shining oblong leaves and arching clusters of white flowers with shell-pink shading and crinkled yellow lip with variegated magenta stripes
leonotis nepetaefolia;pantropical herb having whorls of striking lipped flowers. naturalized in united states
salvia clarea;stout mediterranean sage with white or pink or violet flowers. yields oil used as a flavoring and in perfumery
one armed bandit;a slot machine that is used for gambling
cormorant;large voracious dark-colored long-necked seabird with a distensible pouch for holding fish. used in asia to catch fish
white thistle;any plant of the genus argemone having large white or yellow flowers and prickly leaves and stems and pods. chiefly of tropical america
coelenterate;radially symmetrical animals having saclike bodies with only one opening and tentacles with stinging structures. they occur in polyp and medusa forms
scottish terrier;old scottish breed of small long-haired usually black terrier with erect tail and ears
arachnid;air-breathing arthropods characterized by simple eyes and four pairs of legs
starfish flower;any of various plants of the genus stapelia having succulent leafless toothed cactus-like stems and large evil-smelling flowers often star-shaped
myroxylon toluiferum;medium-sized tropical american tree yielding tolu balsam and a fragrant hard wood used for high-grade furniture and cabinetwork
barbados gooseberry;west indian woody scrambler with spiny stems and numerous fragrant white flowers in panicles followed by small yellow to orange fruits
admiral;any of several brightly colored butterflies
summer sweet;shrub of eastern and southern coastal united states having beautiful racemes of spice-scented white flowers
flowering almond;woody oriental plant with smooth unfurrowed red fruit grown especially for its white or pale pink blossoms
gnat;any of various small biting flies: midges. biting midges. black flies. sand flies
carriage dog;a large breed having a smooth white coat with black or brown spots. originated in dalmatia
taraxacum officinale;eurasian plant widely naturalized as a weed in north america. used as salad greens and to make wine
viminaria juncea;australian leafless shrub resembling broom and having small yellow flowers
slipper plant;any of several tropical american shrubby succulant plants resembling cacti but having foot-shaped bracts
common myrtle;european shrub with white or rosy flowers followed by black berries
endozoa;any of various parasites that live in the internal organs of animals (especially intestinal worms)
doe;mature female of mammals of which the male is called 'buck'
american aspen;slender aspen native to north america
black marlin;pacific marlin
malus sylvestris;wild crab apple native to europe. a chief ancestor of cultivated apples
harvest mouse;any of several small grayish new world mice inhabiting e.g. grain fields
erythrocebus patas;reddish long-tailed monkey of west africa
cabomba caroliniana;common aquatic plant of eastern north america having floating and submerged leaves and white yellow-spotted flowers
stave wood;large tree of australasia
phonograph;rotating records cause a stylus to vibrate and the vibrations are amplified acoustically or electronically
zea mays rugosa;corn whose young ears are sweet and suitable for eating as a vegetable
brown rat;common domestic rat. serious pest worldwide
symplocus paniculata;deciduous shrub of eastern asia bearing decorative bright blue fruit
coral vine;prostrate or twining woody vine with small leathery leaves and umbels of red flowers. australia and tasmania
velvet osier;willow with long flexible twigs used in basketry
corallorhiza trifida;plant having clumps of nearly leafless pale yellowish to greenish stems bearing similarly colored flowers with white lower lips. northern new mexico north through south dakota and washington to alaska
stint;smallest american sandpiper
one flowered wintergreen;delicate evergreen dwarf herb of north temperate regions having a solitary white terminal flower. sometimes placed in genus pyrola
aglaonema modestum;erect or partially climbing herb having large green or variegated leaves
purple apricot;small hybrid apricot of asia and asia minor having purplish twigs and white flowers following by inferior purple fruit
grizzly bear;powerful brownish-yellow bear of the uplands of western north america
blue racer;bluish-green blacksnake found from ohio to texas
velvet bean;annual semi-woody vine of asia having long clusters of purplish flowers and densely hairy pods. cultivated in southern united states for green manure and grazing
anagallis tenella;small creeping european herb having delicate pink flowers
swietinia macrophylla;an important central american mahogany tree
mangabey;large agile arboreal monkey with long limbs and tail and white upper eyelids
pellaea rotundifolia;fern of new zealand and australia having trailing fronds with dark green buttonlike leaflets
goose;web-footed long-necked typically gregarious migratory aquatic birds usually larger and less aquatic than ducks
quira;any of several tropical american trees some yielding economically important timber
spinacia oleracea;southwestern asian plant widely cultivated for its succulent edible dark green leaves
shortia galacifolia;plant of southeastern united states having solitary white funnel-shaped flowers flushed with pink and large glossy green leaves that turn bronze-red in fall
xerophile;plant adapted for life with a limited supply of water. compare hydrophyte and mesophyte
descurainia pinnata;north american herb with bitter-tasting pinnate leaves resembling those of tansy
spiny lobster;large edible marine crustacean having a spiny carapace but lacking the large pincers of true lobsters
sciaenid fish;widely distributed family of carnivorous percoid fishes having a large air bladder used to produce sound
fucus;any member of the genus fucus
ceterach officinarum;small european fern with chaffy leathery fronds
ligustrum obtusifolium;small deciduous shrub having graceful arching branches and luxuriant foliage
tiger cat;a cat having a striped coat
tabby cat;a cat with a gray or tawny coat mottled with black
nyala;spiral-horned south african antelope with a fringe of white hairs along back and neck
bowerbird;any of various birds of the australian region whose males build ornamented structures resembling bowers in order to attract females
alces alces;large northern deer with enormous flattened antlers in the male. called elk in europe and moose in north america
coney;any of various burrowing animals of the family leporidae having long ears and short tails. some domesticated and raised for pets or food
gibbon;smallest and most perfectly anthropoid arboreal ape having long arms and no tail. of southern asia and east indies
dog flea;attacks dogs and cats
rock geranium;plant with basal geranium-like leaves mottled with white and flowers in lax panicles on erect stems
montia cordifolia;succulent plant with mostly basal leaves. stem bears 1 pair of broadly ovate or heart-shaped leaves and a loose raceme of 3-10 white flowers. western north america
springtail;any of numerous minute wingless primitive insects possessing a special abdominal appendage that allows the characteristic nearly perpetual springing pattern. found in soil rich in organic debris or on the surface of snow or water
smooth hammerhead;fished for the hides and vitamin-rich liver
prumnopitys andina;south american evergreen tree or shrub
pin tailed sandgrouse;sandgrouse of europe and africa having elongated middle tail feathers
teff grass;an african grass economically important as a cereal grass (yielding white flower of good quality) as well as for forage and hay
mistletoe thrush;large european thrush that feeds on mistletoe berries
hemlock water dropwort;european poisonous herb having tuberous roots, yellow juice that stains the skin, yellow flowers and foliage resembling celery. all parts extremely poisonous
jumping plant louse;small active cicada-like insect with hind legs adapted for leaping. feeds on plant juices
yellow jacaranda;semi-evergreen south american tree with odd-pinnate leaves and golden yellow flowers cultivated as an ornamental
aloe ferox;much-branched south african plant with reddish prickly succulent leaves
barbados maidenhair;named for a country house in barbados where it was discovered
agueweed;perennial herb of southeastern united states having white-rayed flower heads. formerly used as in folk medicine
spanish tamarind;shrubby tree of madagascar occasionally cultivated for its edible apple-shaped fruit
gyromitra californica;a gyromitra with a brown puffed up fertile part and a thick fluted stalk. found under conifers in california
feijoa;south american shrub having edible greenish plumlike fruit
pine grosbeak;large grosbeak of coniferous forests of old and new worlds
pigweed;leaves sometimes used as potherbs. seeds used as cereal. southern united states to central america. india and china
gerbil;small old world burrowing desert rodent with long soft pale fur and hind legs adapted for leaping
bartramia longicauda;large plover-like sandpiper of north american fields and uplands
aerophyte;plant that derives moisture and nutrients from the air and rain. usually grows on another plant but not parasitic on it
cleg;large swift fly the female of which sucks blood of various animals
clatonia lanceolata;small slender plant having 1 pair of succulent leaves at midstem and a loose raceme of white or pink or rose bowl-shaped flowers and an edible corm
sierra lodgepole pine;tall subspecies of lodgepole pine
shadflower;annual weed of europe and north america having a rosette of basal leaves and tiny flowers followed by oblong seed capsules
acacia catechu;east indian spiny tree having twice-pinnate leaves and yellow flowers followed by flat pods. source of black catechu
steam turbine;steam strikes blades and makes them turn
ox eyed daisy;tall leafy-stemmed eurasian perennial with white flowers. widely naturalized. often placed in genus chrysanthemum
fanweed;foetid eurasian weed having round flat pods. naturalized throughout north america
tuberous plant;plant growing from a tuber
spiny finned fish;a teleost fish with fins that are supported by sharp inflexible rays
tortoiseshell;brilliantly colored. larvae feed on nettles
mackerel scad;small silvery fish. nova scotia to brazil
betula papyrifera;small american birch with peeling white bark often worked into e.g. baskets or toy canoes
paradise tree;medium to large tree of tropical north and south america having odd-pinnate leaves and long panicles of small pale yellow flowers followed by scarlet fruits
lyrurus tetrix;large north european black grouse with a lyre-shaped tail
arethusa bulbosa;a bog orchid with usually a solitary fragrant magenta pink blossom with a wide-gaping corolla. canada
rhodanthe;australian annual everlasting having light pink nodding flower heads. sometimes placed in genus helipterum
tody;tiny insectivorous west indian bird having red-and-green plumage and a long straight bill
green turtle;large tropical turtle with greenish flesh used for turtle soup
ambrosia artemisiifolia;annual weed with finely divided foliage and spikes of green flowers. common in north america. introduced elsewhere accidentally
rasp fern;any fern of the genus doodia having pinnate fronds with sharply dentate pinnae
crab;decapod having eyes on short stalks and a broad flattened carapace with a small abdomen folded under the thorax and pincers
carduelis spinus;small sharp-billed yellow-and-black eurasian finch
houhere;small tree or shrub of new zealand having a profusion of axillary clusters of honey-scented paper-white flowers and whose bark is used for cordage
haemulon aurolineatum;found off the west indies and florida
crinoid;primitive echinoderms having five or more feathery arms radiating from a central disk
huckleberry;any of various dark-fruited as distinguished from blue-fruited blueberries
whydah;mostly black african weaverbird
stelis;any of various small tropical american orchids of the genus stelis having long slender racemes of numerous small to minute flowers
clary;aromatic herb of southern europe. cultivated in england as a potherb and widely as an ornamental
tzetze fly;blood-sucking african fly. transmits sleeping sickness etc.
sagebrush mariposa tulip;mariposa having loose umbel-like clusters of 1-3 handsome lilac flowers atop stout erect stems. arid northwestern north america east of cascade mountains from southern british columbia to northern california
corozo palm;any of several tropical american palms bearing corozo nuts
alocasia macrorrhiza;large evergreen with extremely large erect or spreading leaves. cultivated widely in tropics for its edible rhizome and shoots. used in wet warm regions as a stately ornamental
field mind;european mint naturalized in united states
modern man;subspecies of homo sapiens. includes all modern races
diamondback terrapin;of marshes along atlantic and gulf coasts of united states
turnstone;migratory shorebirds of the plover family that turn over stones in searching for food
green algae;algae that are clear green in color. often growing on wet ricks or damp wood or the surface of stagnant water
padda oryzivora;small finch-like indonesian weaverbird that frequents rice fields
purple bacteria;free-living gram-negative pink to purplish-brown bacteria containing bacteriochlorophyll
polystichum aculeatum;tropical old world fern having glossy fronds suggestive of holly. sometimes placed in genus polystichum
indian plantain;any of various plants of the genus cacalia having leaves resembling those of plantain
oak fern;bright blue-green fern widely distributed especially in damp acid woodlands of temperate northern hemisphere
jewfish;large dark grouper with a thick head and rough scales
dutch elm fungus;fungus causing dutch elm disease
desert sunflower;slender hairy plant with few leaves and golden-yellow flower heads. sandy desert areas of southeastern california to southwestern utah and western arizona and northwestern mexico
eryngium aquaticum;coarse prickly perennial eryngo with aromatic roots. southeastern united states. often confused with rattlesnake master
golden fig;a strangler tree native to southern florida and west indies. begins as an epiphyte eventually developing many trunklike aerial roots and covering enormous areas
pignut;an american hickory tree having bitter nuts
cervus sika;small deer of japan with slightly forked antlers
quandong tree;australian tree having hard white timber and glossy green leaves with white flowers followed by one-seeded glossy blue fruit
huntingdon elm;erect vigorous hybrid ornamental
ostariophysi;in some classifications considered a superorder comprising the cypriniformes and the siluriformes
phaius;an orchid of the genus phaius having large plicate leaves and racemes of showy flowers
wild tobacco;tobacco plant of south america and mexico
barbarea vulgaris;noxious cress with yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus sisymbrium
bocconia frutescens;small central american tree having loose racemes of purple-tinted green flowers
baronduki;terrestrial siberian squirrel
heloderma suspectum;large orange and black lizard of southwestern united states. not dangerous unless molested
diplazium pycnocarpon;north american fern with narrow fronds on yellowish leafstalks
florest s cineraria;herb derived from pericallis_cruenta and widely cultivated in a variety of profusely flowering forms with florets from white to pink to red or purple or violet or blue. sometimes placed in genus cineraria
mountain grape;ornamental evergreen shrub of pacific coast of north america having dark green pinnate leaves and racemes of yellow flowers followed by blue-black berries
bluebottle;an annual eurasian plant cultivated in north america having showy heads of blue or purple or pink or white flowers
redwing;north american blackbird with scarlet patches on the wings
medlar tree;small deciduous eurasian tree cultivated for its fruit that resemble crab apples
slime eels;eellike cyclostome having a tongue with horny teeth in a round mouth surrounded by eight tentacles. feeds on dead or trapped fishes by boring into their bodies
andropogon gerardii;tall grass with smooth bluish leaf sheaths grown for hay in the united states
hoary alyssum;tall european annual with downy gray-green foliage and dense heads of small white flowers followed by hairy pods. naturalized in north america. sometimes a troublesome weed
scallion;plant having a large slender white bulb and flat overlapping dark green leaves. used in cooking. believed derived from the wild allium ampeloprasum
guenon monkey;small slender african monkey having long hind limbs and tail and long hair around the face
streptocarpus;any of various plants of the genus streptocarpus having leaves in a basal rosette and primroselike flowers
sphagnum moss;any of various pale or ashy mosses of the genus sphagnum whose decomposed remains form peat
dahlia;any of several plants of or developed from the species dahlia pinnata having tuberous roots and showy rayed variously colored flower heads. native to the mountains of mexico and central america and colombia
stiff gentian;gentian of eastern north america having clusters of bristly blue flowers
blind eel;aquatic eel-shaped salamander having two pairs of very small feet. of still muddy waters in the southern united states
meat grinder;a device for grinding meat
deerberry;small branching blueberry common in marshy areas of the eastern united states having greenish or yellowish unpalatable berries reputedly eaten by deer
fairy bell;tall leafy european biennial or perennial having spectacular clusters of large tubular pink-purple flowers. leaves yield drug digitalis and are poisonous to livestock
gentiana acaulis;low-growing alpine plant cultivated for its dark glossy green leaves in basal rosettes and showy solitary bell-shaped blue flowers
skeeter hawk;slender-bodied non-stinging insect having iridescent wings that are outspread at rest. adults and nymphs feed on mosquitoes etc.
melia azedarach;tree of northern india and china having purple blossoms and small inedible yellow fruits. naturalized in the southern united states as a shade tree
mourning dove;wild dove of the united states having a mournful call
bluestem wheatgrass;valuable forage grass of western united states
mountain skink;frequents oak and pine habitats in rocky mountainous areas of united states southwest and mexico
mountain parsley fern;fern of europe and asia minor having short slender rhizome and densely tufted bright green parsleylike fronds
cirsium flodmanii;thistle of western north america having white woolly leaves
lynx;short-tailed wildcats with usually tufted ears. valued for their fur
small white;small widely distributed form
tricholoma venenata;a poisonous white agaric
duckweed;any small or minute aquatic plant of the family lemnaceae that float on or near the surface of shallow ponds
adding machine;performs simple arithmetic functions
cohoe;small salmon of north pacific coasts and the great lakes
helleborus niger;european evergreen plant with white or purplish roselike winter-blooming flowers
colewort;a hardy cabbage with coarse curly leaves that do not form a head
radish plant;a cruciferous plant of the genus raphanus having a pungent edible root
umbrella bird;black tropical american bird having a large overhanging crest and long feathered wattle
spring frog;similar to bullfrog. found in or near marshes and ponds. of united states and canada
harpy eagle;large black-and-white crested eagle of tropical america
big bedbug;large bloodsucking bug
prunus japonica;woody oriental plant with smooth unfurrowed red fruit grown especially for its white or pale pink blossoms
ursine dasyure;small ferocious carnivorous marsupial having a mostly black coat and long tail
schreiber s aster;a variety of aster
nitweed;annual wiry-stemmed north american weed with minute scalelike leaves and small yellow flowers
archaeopteryx lithographica;extinct primitive toothed bird of the upper jurassic having a long feathered tail and hollow bones. usually considered the most primitive of all birds
soft shield fern;european shield fern cultivated in many varieties
schipperke;breed of small stocky black dogs originally used as watchdogs on boats in the netherlands and belgium
red bryony;bryony having fleshy roots pale green flowers and very small red berries. europe. north africa. western asia
calycanthus occidentalis;straggling aromatic shrub of southwestern united states having fragrant brown flowers
mesohippus;north american 3-toed oligocene animal. probably not directly ancestral to modern horses
he huckleberry;deciduous much-branched shrub with dense downy panicles of small bell-shaped white flowers
polygonum orientale;annual with broadly ovate leaves and slender drooping spikes of crimson flowers. southeastern asia and australia. naturalized in north america
elaphurus davidianus;large chinese deer surviving only in domesticated herds
cantharellus cinnabarinus;mushroom with a distinctive pink to vermillion fruiting body
vulpes velox;small gray fox of the plains of western north america
banana;any of several tropical and subtropical treelike herbs of the genus musa having a terminal crown of large entire leaves and usually bearing hanging clusters of elongated fruits
dennstaedtia punctilobula;fern of eastern north america with pale green fronds and hay-like aroma
chacma baboon;grayish baboon of southern and eastern africa
mobula hypostoma;small manta (to 4 feet) that travels in schools
manx shearwater;small black-and-white shearwater common in the eastern north atlantic
indian shot;canna grown especially for its edible rootstock from which arrowroot starch is obtained
exacum affine;perennial cultivated especially as a houseplant for its fragrant bluish to dark lavender flowers
large flowered calamint;aromatic herb with large pink flowers. southern and southeastern europe. anatolia. northern iran
berberis canadensis;deciduous shrub of eastern north america whose leaves turn scarlet in autumn and having racemes of yellow flowers followed by ellipsoid glossy red berries
texas star;texas annual with coarsely pinnatifid leaves. cultivated for its showy radiate yellow flower heads
corypha utan;large-leaved palm of malay to philippines and northern australia. leaves used for thatching or plaiting into containers
chlorura chlorura;towhee of the rocky mountain region
old world vulture;any of several large vultures of africa and eurasia
hypericum spathulatum;stiff shrub having oblong entire leaves and dense cymes of yellow flowers
termite;whitish soft-bodied ant-like social insect that feeds on wood
yellow spruce;medium-sized spruce of eastern north america. chief lumber spruce of the area. source of pulpwood
sea poacher;small slender fish (to 8 inches) with body covered by bony plates. chiefly of deeper north pacific waters
ringtail;an immature golden eagle
rheum rhaponticum;long-cultivated hybrid of rheum palmatum. stems often cooked in pies or as sauce or preserves
vedalia;native to australia. introduced elsewhere to control scale insects
tub gurnard;a kind of gurnard
topminnow;small usually brightly-colored viviparous surface-feeding fishes of fresh or brackish warm waters. often used in mosquito control
chinese anise;small tree of china and vietnam bearing anise-scented star-shaped fruit used in food and medicinally as a carminative
cryptacanthodes maculatus;eellike atlantic bottom fish with large almost vertical mouth
mountain quail;california partridge. slightly larger than the california quail
skirret;an asiatic herb cultivated in europe for its sweet edible tuberous root
liliopsid;a monocotyledonous flowering plant
arbutus menziesii;evergreen tree of pacific north america having glossy leathery leaves and orange-red edible berries. wood used for furniture and bark for tanning
death camas;any of various plants of the genus zigadenus having glaucous leaves and terminal racemes of mostly white flowers. all are poisonous
cereal oat;widely cultivated in temperate regions for its edible grains
obstetrical toad;european toad whose male carries the fertilized eggs wrapped around its hind legs until they hatch
dead man s fingers;the fruiting bodies of the fungi of the genus xylaria
silybum marianum;tall old world biennial thistle with large clasping white-blotched leaves and purple flower heads. naturalized in california and south america
walker foxhound;an american breed of foxhound
sea swallow;common tern of eurasia and america having white black and gray plumage
pinot grape;any of several purple or white wine grapes used especially for burgundies and champagnes
pholiota flavida;a fungus that grows in clusters on the ground. cap is brownish orange with a surface that is smooth and slightly sticky. whitish gills and a cylindrical brown stalk
agropyron repens;european grass spreading rapidly by creeping rhizomes. naturalized in north america as a weed
eugenia dicrana;tree of extreme southern florida and west indies having thin scaly bark and aromatic fruits and seeds and yielding hard heavy close-grained zebrawood
american dewberry;north american dewberry
sabbatia stellaris;pink-flowered marsh plant of the eastern united states
bastard turtle;gray sea turtle of the atlantic and gulf coasts of north america
silver oak;small slender tree with usually entire gray-green pendulous leaves and white or cream flowers. northern australia
elephant s ear;any plant of the genus alocasia having large showy basal leaves and boat-shaped spathe and reddish berries
hieracium venosum;a hawkweed with a rosette of purple-veined basal leaves. canada to northern georgia and kentucky
rice grain fritillary;herb of northwestern america having green-and-purple bell-shaped flowers
volvariella bombycina;a mushroom with a dry yellowish to white fibrillose cap
odd toed ungulate;placental mammals having hooves with an odd number of toes on each foot
plantago lanceolata;an old world plantain with long narrow ribbed leaves widely established in temperate regions
carica papaya;tropical american shrub or small tree having huge deeply palmately cleft leaves and large oblong yellow fruit
indian rattlebox;erect subshrub having purple-tinted flowers and an inflated pod in which the ripe seeds rattle. india
yellow water lily;a water lily with yellow flowers
celery topped pine;medium-tall celery pine of tasmania
musk sheep;large shaggy-coated bovid mammal of canada and greenland. intermediate in size and anatomy between an ox and a sheep
beach flea;small amphipod crustaceans that hop like fleas. common on ocean beaches
earth nut pea;european herb bearing small tubers used for food and in scotland to flavor whiskey
boxfish;any of numerous small tropical fishes having body and head encased in bony plates
fish;any of various mostly cold-blooded aquatic vertebrates usually having scales and breathing through gills
squalus suckleyi;dogfish of pacific coast of north america
hippo;massive thick-skinned herbivorous animal living in or around rivers of tropical africa
wax moth;moth whose larvae live in and feed on bee honeycombs
yellow paper daisy;australian plant naturalized in spain having flowers of lemon yellow to deep gold. the choice everlasting of dried-flower lovers
coachwhip;desert shrub of southwestern united states and mexico having slender naked spiny branches that after the rainy season put forth foliage and clusters of red flowers
scomber colias;medium-sized mackerel of temperate atlantic and gulf of mexico
schrod;young atlantic cod or haddock esp. one split and boned for cooking
ravenala;giant treelike plant having edible nuts and leafstalks that yield a refreshing drink of clear watery sap. reputedly an emergency source of water for travelers
cyanobacteria;predominantly photosynthetic prokaryotic organisms containing a blue pigment in addition to chlorophyll. occur singly or in colonies in diverse habitats. important as phytoplankton
habenaria dilatata;orchid with spikes of many fragrant white flowers on erect leafy stems. of wet or boggy ground through most of the west and northern north america
bufo marinus;largest known toad species. native to central america. valuable destroyer of insect pests
bullock heart;small tropical american tree bearing a bristly heart-shaped acid tropical fruit
eringo;any plant of the genus eryngium
chimpanzee;intelligent somewhat arboreal ape of equatorial african forests
dicamptodontid;salamanders found near cold streams throughout the year
paralichthys lethostigmus;flounder of southern united states
dead nettle;any of various plants of the genus lamium having clusters of small usually purplish flowers with two lips
gari;cassava with long tuberous edible roots and soft brittle stems. used especially to make cassiri (an intoxicating drink) and tapioca
yellow bellied sapsucker;eastern north american sapsucker having a pale yellow abdomen
sterculia rupestris;large tree of queensland australia having cream-colored flowers blotched with red inside. sometimes placed in genus sterculia
ribgrass;an old world plantain with long narrow ribbed leaves widely established in temperate regions
gumweed;any of various western american plants of the genus grindelia having resinous leaves and stems formerly used medicinally. often poisonous to livestock
aster;any of various chiefly fall-blooming herbs of the genus aster with showy daisylike flowers
catamount;large american feline resembling a lion
moon carrot;any plant of the genus seseli having dense umbels of small white or pink flowers and finely divided foliage
rupicola peruviana;bird of the andes similar to rupicola rupicola
ephestia elutella;small moth whose larvae feed on tobacco and other dried plant products
pavo cristatus;peafowl of india and ceylon
witch grass;european grass spreading rapidly by creeping rhizomes. naturalized in north america as a weed
dutch clover;creeping european clover having white to pink flowers and bright green leaves. naturalized in united states. widely grown for forage
bantam;any of various small breeds
adiantum bellum;delicate endemic bermudian fern with creeping rootstock
purple rock brake;very short shallowly creeping north american fern usually growing on cliffs or walls and having dark glossy leaf axes
crotalus lepidus;mountain rock dweller of mexico and most southern parts of united states southwest
wood stork;american stork resembling the true ibises in having a curved bill. inhabits wooded swamps of new world tropics
federita;a sudanese sorghum having exceptionally large soft white grains
padouk;tree native to southeastern asia having reddish wood with a mottled or striped black grain
lampris regius;large elliptical brightly colored deep-sea fish of atlantic and pacific and mediterranean
erica lusitanica;erect dense shrub native to western iberian peninsula having profuse white or pink flowers. naturalized in southwestern england
podocarpus nivalis;low wide-spreading coniferous shrub of new zealand mountains
pooch;informal terms
psephurus gladis;fish of larger rivers of china similar to the mississippi paddlefish
maple leaved bayur;indian tree having fragrant nocturnal white flowers and yielding a reddish wood used for planking. often grown as an ornamental or shade tree
euphorbia amygdaloides;european perennial herb with greenish yellow terminal flower clusters
mainframe;a large digital computer serving 100-400 users and occupying a special air-conditioned room
bell magpie;bluish black fruit-eating bird with a bell-like call
phrynosoma cornutum;of arid and semiarid open country
gentiana procera;small blue-flowered fringed gentian of east central north america
alligator grass;prolific south american aquatic weed having grasslike leaves and short spikes of white flowers. clogs waterways with dense floating masses
rauwolfia;any shrub or small tree of the genus rauwolfia having leaves in whorls and cymose flowers. yield substances used medicinally especially as emetics or purgatives
madderwort;any of numerous trees or shrubs or vines of the family rubiaceae
tufted vetch;common perennial climber of temperate regions of eurasia and north america having dense elongate clusters of flowers
thoroughwort;perennial herb of southeastern united states having white-rayed flower heads. formerly used as in folk medicine
clintonia borealis;common woodland herb of temperate north america having yellow nodding flowers and small round blue fruits
lily of the incas;an andean herb having umbels of showy pinkish-purple lilylike flowers
brachiopod;marine animal with bivalve shell having a pair of arms bearing tentacles for capturing food. found worldwide
sheep frog;mostly of central america
field mouse;any nocturnal old world mouse of the genus apodemus inhabiting woods and fields and gardens
flagellated protozoan;usually nonphotosynthetic free-living protozoan with whiplike appendages. some pathogens of humans and other animals
amaranthus hybridus hypochondriacus;tall showy tropical american annual having hairy stems and long spikes of usually red flowers above leaves deeply flushed with purple. seeds often used as cereal
european elm;broad spreading rough-leaved elm common throughout europe and planted elsewhere
nyctaginia capitata;viscid branched perennial of the southwestern united states and northern mexico having tuberous roots and deep red flowers
cranesbill;any of numerous geraniums of the genus geranium
maianthemum canadense;small two-leaved herb of the northern united states and parts of canada having racemes of small fragrant white flowers
rana clamitans;similar to bullfrog. found in or near marshes and ponds. of united states and canada
mead s milkweed;milkweed of central north america. a threatened species
sleuthhound;a breed of large powerful hound of european origin having very acute smell and used in tracking
new zealand dacryberry;new zealand evergreen valued for its light easily worked wood
lespedeza striata;an annual of tropical asia naturalized in united states
mammoth;any of numerous extinct elephants widely distributed in the pleistocene. extremely large with hairy coats and long upcurved tusks
cohosh;a plant of the genus actaea having acrid poisonous berries
jewels of opar;erect plant with tuberous roots and terminal panicles of red to yellow flowers. southwestern north america to central america. widely introduced elsewhere
combretum bracteosum;ornamental red-flowering african shrub or climber
archosaur;extinct reptiles including: dinosaurs. plesiosaurs. pterosaurs. ichthyosaurs. thecodonts
fumewort;herb of northern europe and asia having erect racemes of red flowers
toddy alm;fishtail palm of india to malay peninsula. sap yields a brown sugar (jaggery) and trunk pith yields sago
campeachy;spiny shrub or small tree of central america and west indies having bipinnate leaves and racemes of small bright yellow flowers and yielding a hard brown or brownish-red heartwood used in preparing a black dye
vespula maculifrons;small yellow-marked social wasp commonly nesting in the ground
brassica juncea;asiatic mustard used as a potherb
weaver s broom;tall thornless shrub having pale yellow flowers and flexible rushlike twigs used in basketry. of southwestern europe and mediterranean. naturalized in california
rusty woodsia;a common rock-inhabiting fern of northern temperate regions having rusty-brown stipes and lanceolate pinnate fronds
mud plantain;grassy-leaved north american aquatic plant with yellow star-shaped blossoms
rosebud orchid;orchid of central and northern south america having 1- to 3-blossomed racemes of large showy rose-colored flowers. sometimes placed in genus pogonia
lemon sole;popular pale brown food flatfish of the pacific coast of north america
common pepper;climber having dark red berries (peppercorns) when fully ripe. southern india and sri lanka. naturalized in north burma and assam
baptisia australis;wild indigo of the eastern united states having racemes of blue flowers
mysore thorn;spreading thorny shrub of tropical asia bearing large erect racemes of red-marked yellow flowers
allice;european shad
beta vulgaris rubra;beet having a massively swollen red root. widely grown for human consumption
stone marten;eurasian marten having a brown coat with pale breast and throat
eggplant;hairy upright herb native to southeastern asia but widely cultivated for its large glossy edible fruit commonly used as a vegetable
leaf footed bug;large sap-sucking bug with leaflike expansions on the legs
cacalia lutea;tropical african annual having scarlet tassel-shaped flower heads. sometimes placed in genus cacalia
peperomia;any of various plants of the genus peperomia. grown primarily for their often succulent foliage
alaska king crab;large edible crab of north pacific waters esp. along the coasts of alaska and japan
mus musculus;brownish-gray old world mouse now a common household pest worldwide
king mackerel;large mackerel with long pointed snout. important food and game fish of the eastern atlantic coast south to brazil
pleurotus ostreatus;edible agaric with a soft grayish cap growing in shelving masses on dead wood
sorrel;a horse of a brownish orange to light brown color
sweetsop tree;tropical american tree bearing sweet pulpy fruit with thick scaly rind and shiny black seeds
erethizon dorsatum;porcupine of northeastern north america with barbed spines concealed in the coarse fur. often gnaws buildings for salt and grease
striped killifish;black-barred fish of bays and coastal marshes of united states atlantic and gulf coasts
maule s quince;deciduous thorny shrub native to japan having red blossoms
cricetus cricetus;a variety of hamster common to europe and asia
trombiculiid;mite that as nymph and adult feeds on early stages of small arthropods but whose larvae are parasitic on terrestrial vertebrates
big shagbark;hickory of the eastern united states resembling the shagbark but having a much larger nut
comma;anglewing butterfly with a comma-shaped mark on the underside of each hind wing
nanny;female goat
turfing daisy;mat-forming perennial herb of asia minor. sometimes included in genus matricaria
muscari neglectum;prolific species having particularly beautiful dark blue flowers
desert four o clock;wildflower having vibrant deep pink tubular evening-blooming flowers. found in sandy and desert areas from southern california to southern colorado and into mexico
horned viper;highly venomous viper of north africa and southwest asia having a horny spine above each eye
guib;antelope with white markings like a harness and twisted horns
noctiluca miliaris;large bioluminescent marine protozoan
automated teller machine;a machine (outside some banks) that dispenses cash when a personal coded card is used
tellima affinis;california perennial herb cultivated for its racemose white flowers with widely spreading petals. sometimes placed in genus tellima
trifolium dubium;clover native to ireland with yellowish flowers. often considered the true or original shamrock
garden nasturtium;strong-growing annual climber having large flowers of all shades of orange from orange-red to yellowish orange and seeds that are pickled and used like capers
rubus cissoides;stout-stemmed trailing shrub of new zealand that scrambles over other growth
gregarine;vermiform protozoans parasitic in insects and other invertebrates
small leaved lime;large spreading european linden with small dark green leaves. often cultivated as an ornamental
silver tree;australian timber tree
love in a mist;tropical american passion flower with finely dissected bracts. stems malodorous when crushed
black kite;dark old world kite feeding chiefly on carrion
anas acuta;long-necked river duck of the old and new worlds having elongated central tail feathers
solidago nemoralis;a dyer's weed of canada and the eastern united states having yellow flowers sometimes used in dyeing
squawbush;deciduous shrub of california with unpleasantly scented usually trivoliate leaves and edible fruit
cryptogramma crispa;fern of europe and asia minor having short slender rhizome and densely tufted bright green parsleylike fronds
teasel;any of several herbs of the genus dipsacus native to the old world having flower heads surrounded by spiny bracts
canton ginger;tropical asian plant widely cultivated for its pungent root. source of gingerroot and powdered ginger
south american staghorn;fern of peru and bolivia
gosling;young goose
arizona cypress;arizona timber tree with bluish silvery foliage
orange daisy;mat-forming herb of turkestan with nearly double orange-yellow flowers
oxalis crenata;south american wood sorrel cultivated for its edible tubers
screwbean;shrub or small tree of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico having spirally twisted pods
silver perch;small silvery drumfish often mistaken for white perch. found along coasts of united states from new york to mexico
red veined pie plant;asian herb (himalaya)
fritillaria meleagris;eurasian checkered lily with pendant flowers usually veined and checkered with purple or maroon on a pale ground and shaped like the bells carried by lepers in medieval times. widely grown as an ornamental
bullock;castrated bull
wheeler;a horse harnessed behind others and nearest the wheels of a vehicle
woodrat;any of various small short-tailed rodents of the northern hemisphere having soft fur gray above and white below with well-furred tails and large ears. some are hosts for ixodes pacificus and ixodes scapularis (lyme disease ticks)
cupid s dart;south european plant having dark-eyed flowers with flat blue rays
melilotus;erect annual or biennial plant grown extensively especially for hay and soil improvement
viverricula malaccensis;common small civet of southeast asia
tropaeolum peregrinum;a climber having canary-colored flowers
phyllocladus asplenifolius;medium-tall celery pine of tasmania
menominee whitefish;bronze-backed whitefish of northern north america and siberia
saluki;old breed of tall swift keen-eyed hunting dogs resembling greyhounds. from egypt and southwestern asia
basidiomycetous fungi;any of various fungi of the subdivision basidiomycota
yellow horned poppy;yellow-flowered eurasian glaucous herb naturalized in along sandy shores in eastern north america
neomys fodiens;widely distributed old world water shrew
pompon;dusky gray food fish found from louisiana and florida southward
swamp milkweed;densely branching perennial of the eastern united states with white to crimson or purple flowers
yellowbird;yellow-throated american wood warbler
whistler;australian and southeastern asian birds with a melodious whistling call
sea starwort;a common european salt-marsh aster
leccinum fibrillosum;an edible fungus with a dark reddish brown cap and a wide light tan stalk that expands toward the base
ctenocephalides canis;attacks dogs and cats
zea mays indentata;corn whose kernels contain both hard and soft starch and become indented at maturity
hamster;short-tailed old world burrowing rodent with large cheek pouches
cusk eel;elongate compressed somewhat eel-shaped fishes
actitis hypoleucos;a variety of sandpiper
elaeis guineensis;oil palm of africa
beard moss;greenish gray pendulous lichen growing on trees
fumeroot;herb of northern europe and asia having erect racemes of red flowers
cytomegalovirus;any of a group of herpes viruses that can cause birth defects. can affect humans with impaired immunological systems
scrub pine;common small shrubby pine of the eastern united states having straggling often twisted or branches and short needles in bunches of 2
corn poppy;annual european poppy common in grain fields and often cultivated
chamomile;eurasian plant apple-scented foliage and white-rayed flowers and feathery leaves used medicinally. in some classification systems placed in genus anthemis
centauria calcitrapa;mediterannean annual or biennial herb having pinkish to purple flowers surrounded by spine-tipped scales. naturalized in america
spergula arvensis;small european weed with whorled leaves and white flowers
cherry;any of numerous trees and shrubs producing a small fleshy round fruit with a single hard stone. many also produce a valuable hardwood
keeshond;a spitz-type dog having a shaggy grayish coat and tightly curled tail originating in holland
galingale;european sedge having rough-edged leaves and spikelets of reddish flowers and aromatic roots
armored catfish;south american catfish having the body covered with bony plates
wine maker s yeast;used in making wine
gymnocarpium robertianum;yellow-green fern of rocky areas of northern hemisphere
pimpernel;any of several plants of the genus anagallis
corkwood;very small deciduous dioecious tree or shrub of damp habitats in southeastern united states having extremely light wood
madrona;evergreen tree of pacific north america having glossy leathery leaves and orange-red edible berries. wood used for furniture and bark for tanning
arctictis bintourong;arboreal civet of asia having a long prehensile tail and shaggy black hair
coney;small short-eared burrowing mammal of rocky uplands of asia and western north america
pacer;a horse trained to a special gait in which both feet on one side leave the ground together
japanese varnish tree;deciduous tree widely grown in southern united states as an ornamental for its handsome maplelike foliage and long racemes of yellow-green flowers followed by curious leaflike pods
tassel flower;tropical asiatic annual cultivated for its small tassel-shaped heads of scarlet flowers
kirkia wilmsii;small african deciduous tree with spreading crown having leaves clustered toward ends of branches and lilaclike clusters of creamy flowers
agrostis palustris;common pasture or lawn grass spread by long runners
erythrina indica;small to medium-sized thorny tree of tropical asia and northern australia having dense clusters of scarlet or crimson flowers and black seeds
dibranchiate;cephalopods having two gills
greenland caribou;arctic deer with large antlers in both sexes. called reindeer in eurasia and caribou in north america
sanguinary ant;slave-making ant widely distributed over the northern hemisphere
lysimachia terrestris;north american plant with spikes of yellow flowers, found in wet places
red squirrel;of northern united states and canada
white fringed orchis;bog orchid of eastern north america with a spike of pure white fringed flowers
strawberry tree;small evergreen european shrubby tree bearing many-seeded scarlet berries that are edible but bland. of ireland, southern europe, asia minor
agaricus arvensis;coarse edible mushroom with a hollow stem and abroad white cap
human botfly;large tropical american fly. parasitic on humans and other mammals
flashlight fish;fish of deep dark waters having a light organ below each eye
cuckoopint;common european arum with lanceolate spathe and short purple spadix. emerges in early spring. source of a sagolike starch called arum
false alumroot;plant growing in clumps with mostly basal leaves and cream or pale pink fringed flowers in several long racemes. alaska to coastal central california and east to idaho
sand spurry;prostrate weedy herb with tiny pink flowers. widespread throughout europe and asia on sand dunes and heath and coastal cliffs. naturalized in eastern north america
crataegus biltmoreana;common shrub or small tree of the eastern united states having few thorns and white flowers in corymbs followed by bright orange-red berries
scarlet plume;mexican shrub often cultivated for its scarlet-bracted flowers
cynomys gunnisoni;tail is white tipped
mallard;wild dabbling duck from which domestic ducks are descended. widely distributed
corythosaurus;duck-billed dinosaur with nasal passages that expand into a crest like a hollow helmet
maltese dog;breed of toy dogs having a long straight silky white coat
tulip poplar;tall north american deciduous timber tree having large tulip-shaped greenish yellow flowers and conelike fruit. yields soft white woods used especially for cabinet work
bloodhound;a breed of large powerful hound of european origin having very acute smell and used in tracking
cenchrus ciliaris;erect tussock-forming perennial bur grass used in especially in south africa and australia for pasture and forage
gaultheria shallon;small evergreen shrub of pacific coast of north america having edible dark purple grape-size berries
american holly;an evergreen tree
fossorial mammal;a burrowing mammal having limbs adapted for digging
collie;a silky-coated sheepdog with a long ruff and long narrow head developed in scotland
senga root;eastern north american plant having a terminal cluster of small white flowers and medicinal roots
pellicularia koleroga;fungus causing a disease in coffee and some other tropical plants
definitive host;the host in which the sexual reproduction of a parasite takes place
zygophyllum fabago;perennial shrub of the eastern mediterranean region and southwestern asia having flowers whose buds are used as capers
carangid;a percoid fish of the family carangidae
bromus secalinus;weedy annual native to europe but widely distributed as a weed especially in wheat
ziziphus jujuba;spiny tree having dark red edible fruits
haemosporidian;minute protozoans parasitic at some stage of the life cycle in blood cells of vertebrates including many pathogens
wind generator;extracts usable energy from winds
creeping bent;common pasture or lawn grass spread by long runners
gymnospermous yellowwood;any of various gymnospermous trees having yellow wood
poison parsley;large branching biennial herb native to eurasia and africa and adventive in north america having large fernlike leaves and white flowers. usually found in damp habitats. all parts extremely poisonous
blue eyed african daisy;bushy perennial of south africa with white or violet flowers. in its native region often clothes entire valley sides in a sheet of color
drosophyllum lusitanicum;perennial of dry habitats whose leaves have glandular hairs that secrete adhesive and digestive fluid for capture and digestion of insects. portugal, southern spain and morocco
vincetoxicum negrum;twining vine with hairy foliage and dark purplish-brown flowers
gentiana crinita;tall widely distributed fringed gentian of eastern north america having violet-blue or white fringed flowers
chesapeake bay retriever;american breed having a short thick oily coat ranging from brown to light tan
sericea lespedeza;perennial widely planted as for forage and as hay crop especially on poor land
basket fern;tropical american fern cultivated for its finely divided grayish-green foliage. west indies and southern mexico to peru and brazil
ficus aurea;a strangler tree native to southern florida and west indies. begins as an epiphyte eventually developing many trunklike aerial roots and covering enormous areas
tmv;the widely studied plant virus that causes tobacco mosaic. it was the first virus discovered (1892)
wild crab;wild crab apple native to europe. a chief ancestor of cultivated apples
new world monkey;hairy-faced arboreal monkeys having widely separated nostrils and long usually prehensile tails
picrasma excelsum;west indian tree yielding the drug jamaica quassia
belle isle cress;of southwestern europe. cultivated in florida
ostrich;fast-running african flightless bird with two-toed feet. largest living bird
date plum;an asiatic persimmon tree cultivated for its small yellow or purplish-black edible fruit much valued by afghan tribes
great yellowcress;perennial herb found on streams and riversides throughout europe except extreme north and mediterranean. sometimes placed in genus nasturtium
earthnut;a common european plant having edible tubers with the flavor of roasted chestnuts
american chameleon;small arboreal tropical american insectivorous lizards with the ability to change skin color
common brant goose;the best known variety of brant goose
tiger snake;highly venomous brown-and-yellow snake of australia and tasmania
hartebeest;large african antelope with lyre-shaped horns that curve backward
pinus cembra;large 5-needled european pine. yields cembra nuts and a resinous exudate
portuguese man of war;large siphonophore having a bladderlike float and stinging tentacles
quercus ilex;evergreen oak of southern europe having leaves somewhat resembling those of holly. yields a hard wood
persian cat;a long-haired breed of cat
florida water rat;of florida wetlands
eucinostomus gula;silvery mojarra found along sandy shores of the western atlantic
odontaspis taurus;shallow-water shark with sharp jagged teeth found on both sides of atlantic. sometimes dangerous to swimmers
zea mays amylacea;corn having kernels almost entirely of soft starch
white man s foot;common european perennial naturalized worldwide. a troublesome weed
tomtate;found off the west indies and florida
roman wormwood;glaucous herb of northeastern united states and canada having loose racemes of yellow-tipped pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus fumaria
virginia serpentaria;birthwort of the eastern united states woodlands
capsid;a variety of leaf bug
prairie gourd vine;perennial vine of dry parts of central and southwestern united states and mexico having small hard mottled green inedible fruit
cordia alliodora;large tropical american tree of the genus cordia grown for its abundant creamy white flowers and valuable wood
phascolarctos cinereus;sluggish tailless australian arboreal marsupial with gray furry ears and coat. feeds on eucalyptus leaves and bark
ganoid fish;primitive fishes having thick bony scales with a shiny covering
throstle;common old world thrush noted for its song
dotrel;rare plover of upland areas of eurasia
boott s goldenrod;a variety of goldenrod
prairia sabbatia;prairie herb with solitary lilac-colored flowers
primula sinensis;cultivated asiatic primrose
mucuna deeringiana;annual semi-woody vine of asia having long clusters of purplish flowers and densely hairy pods. cultivated in southern united states for green manure and grazing
pyrola;any of several evergreen perennials of the genus pyrola
looking glass tree;large evergreen tree of india and burma whose leaves are silvery beneath
jawfish;small large-mouthed tropical marine fishes common along sandy bottoms. males brood egg balls in their mouths. popular aquarium fishes
malarial mosquito;transmits the malaria parasite
longtail weasel;the common american weasel distinguished by large size and black-tipped tail
chewink;common towhee of eastern north america
cankerweed;herb of northeastern north america having drooping clusters of yellowish-white flowers. sometimes placed in genus prenanthes
continuity;the property of a continuous and connected period of time
lake whitefish;found in great lakes and north to alaska
white mallow;european perennial plant naturalized in united states having triangular ovate leaves and lilac-pink flowers
basking shark;large harmless plankton-eating northern shark. often swims slowly or floats at the sea surface
lemon shark;common shallow-water schooling shark of the atlantic from north carolina to brazil and off west africa. dangerous
subclass diapsida;used in former classifications to include all living reptiles except turtles. superseded by the two subclasses lepidosauria and archosauria
princewood;tropical american timber tree
toadfrog;any of various tailless stout-bodied amphibians with long hind limbs for leaping. semiaquatic and terrestrial species
feather ball;a low tuberculate cactus with white feathery spines. northeastern mexico
abelmoschus esculentus;tall coarse annual of old world tropics widely cultivated in southern united states and west indies for its long mucilaginous green pods used as basis for soups and stews. sometimes placed in genus hibiscus
swamp candles;north american plant with spikes of yellow flowers, found in wet places
burrfish;any of several fishes having rigid flattened spines
sebastodes marinus;large fish of northern atlantic coasts of america and europe
corn;tall annual cereal grass bearing kernels on large ears: widely cultivated in america in many varieties. the principal cereal in mexico and central and south america since pre-columbian times
tiarella cordifolia;stoloniferous white-flowered spring-blooming woodland plant
arum lily;south african plant widely cultivated for its showy pure white spathe and yellow spadix
pinus rigida;large 3-needled pine of the eastern united states and southeastern canada. closely related to the pond pine
clupea harengus harengus;important food fish. found in enormous shoals in north atlantic
coprinus comatus;common edible mushroom having an elongated shaggy white cap and black spores
esox lucius;voracious pisciverous pike of waters of northern hemisphere
erythroxylon truxiuense;a south american shrub whose leaves are a source of cocaine
bearded vulture;the largest eurasian bird of prey. having black feathers hanging around the bill
cyclops;minute free-swimming freshwater copepod having a large median eye and pear-shaped body and long antennae used in swimming. important in some food chains and as intermediate hosts of parasitic worms that affect man e.g. guinea worms
white tailed kite;gray-and-white american kite of warm and tropical regions
kalmia latifolia;a north american evergreen shrub having glossy leaves and white or rose-colored flowers
ceratonia siliqua;evergreen mediterranean tree with edible pods. the biblical carob
aloe;succulent plants having rosettes of leaves usually with hemp-like fiber and spikes of showy flowers. chiefly africa
okra plant;tall coarse annual of old world tropics widely cultivated in southern united states and west indies for its long mucilaginous green pods used as basis for soups and stews. sometimes placed in genus hibiscus
clianthus speciosus;sprawling shrubby perennial noted for its scarlet black-marked flowers. widely distributed in dry parts of australia
fair maids of france;rosette-forming perennial having compact panicles of white flowers. europe
kiwi;climbing vine native to china. cultivated in new zealand for its fuzzy edible green-meated fruit
silky terrier;australian breed of toy dogs having a silky blue coat
sturt pea;sprawling shrubby perennial noted for its scarlet black-marked flowers. widely distributed in dry parts of australia
american sable;valued for its fur
southern dewberry;of southern north america
great lobelia;tall erect and very leafy perennial herb of eastern north america having dense spikes of blue flowers
poeciliid;small usually brightly-colored viviparous surface-feeding fishes of fresh or brackish warm waters. often used in mosquito control
cape aloe;much-branched south african plant with reddish prickly succulent leaves
african elephant;african elephant having enormous flapping ears and ivory tusks
gymnopilus spectabilis;a fungus with a brownish orange fruiting body and a ring near the top of the stalk. the taste is bitter and the flesh contains psilocybin and psilocin
wild sarsparilla;common perennial herb having aromatic roots used as a substitute for sarsaparilla. central and eastern north america
pluteus cervinus;a small edible agaric with a slender stalk. usually found on rotting hardwoods
rio nunez coffee;native to west africa but grown in java and elsewhere. resistant to coffee rust
tortoise;usually herbivorous land turtles having clawed elephant-like limbs. worldwide in arid area except australia and antarctica
lagarostrobus franklinii;tasmanian timber tree with yellow aromatic wavy-grained wood used for carving and ship building. sometimes placed in genus dacrydium
wader;any of many long-legged birds that wade in water in search of food
rewa rewa;slender elegant tree of new zealand having racemes of red flowers and yielding valuable mottled red timber
coca;a south american shrub whose leaves are chewed by natives of the andes. a source of cocaine
eumeces skiltonianus;found in western north american grasslands and open woodlands
snow lily;dogtooth violet of western north america having bright yellow flowers
unguiculate;a mammal having nails or claws
river birch;birch of swamps and river bottoms throughout the eastern united states having reddish-brown bark
pickerelweed;american plant having spikes of blue flowers and growing in shallow water of streams and ponds
hairy honeysuckle;twining deciduous shrub with hairy leaves and spikes of yellow-orange flowers. northeastern america
arenaria serpyllifolia;eurasian annual sprawling plant naturalized throughout north america
winter crookneck;any of various plants bearing hard-rinded squash having elongated recurved necks
blacksnake;large harmless shiny black north american snake
erithacus svecicus;songbird of northern europe and asia
racer;slender fast-moving north american snakes
cumquat;any of several trees or shrubs of the genus fortunella bearing small orange-colored edible fruits with thick sweet-flavored skin and sour pulp
marsh clematis;climber of southern united states having bluish-purple flowers
turkey buzzard;common in south and central america and southern united states
bromegrass;any of various woodland and meadow grasses of the genus bromus. native to temperate regions
tobacco mosaic virus;the widely studied plant virus that causes tobacco mosaic. it was the first virus discovered (1892)
combretum erythrophyllum;small south african tree having creamy yellow fragrant flowers usually growing on stream banks
hardheads;a weedy perennial with tough wiry stems and purple flowers. native to europe but widely naturalized
tong ho;grown for its succulent edible leaves used in oriental cooking
painted leaf begonia;any of numerous usually rhizomatous hybrid begonias derived from an east indian plant having rough-textured leaves patterned in silver and bronze and purple and red-brown with inconspicuous flowers
pe tsai;plant with an elongated celery-like head of broad stalked leaves used as a vegetable in east asia
tilia tomentosa;large tree native to eastern europe and asia minor having leaves with white tomentum on the under side. widely cultivated as an ornamental
winter cherry;old world perennial cultivated for its ornamental inflated papery orange-red calyx
emmanthe penduliflora;viscid herb of arid or desert habitats of southwestern united states having pendulous yellow flowers
marten;agile slender-bodied arboreal mustelids somewhat larger than weasels
sea dahlia;stout herb with flowers one to a stalk. ornamental developed from a mexican wildflower
wild coffee;coarse weedy american perennial herb with large usually perfoliate leaves and purple or dull red flowers
selaginella eremophila;prostrate spikemoss. california
gnetum;small tropical tree with tiered branches and divaricate branchlets having broad glossy dark green leaves. exploited for its edible young leaves and seeds that provide a fine flour
peach;cultivated in temperate regions
kestrel;small north american falcon
digitalis lutea;european yellow-flowered foxglove
medfly;small black-and-white fly that damages citrus and other fruits by implanting eggs that hatch inside the fruit
clitocybe inornata;a fungus with a cap that is creamy gray when young and turns brown with age and a whitish stalk that stains yellow when handled
jack;any of several fast-swimming predacious fishes of tropical to warm-temperate seas
early coral root;plant having clumps of nearly leafless pale yellowish to greenish stems bearing similarly colored flowers with white lower lips. northern new mexico north through south dakota and washington to alaska
sida spinosa;tropical american weed having pale yellow or orange flowers naturalized in southern united states
japanese plum;evergreen tree of warm regions having fuzzy yellow olive-sized fruit with a large free stone. native to china and japan
varied lorikeet;lorikeet with a colorful coat
sea feather;corals forming featherlike colonies
adansonia digitata;african tree having an exceedingly thick trunk and gourd-like fruit with edible pulp called monkey bread
hooded merganser;small north american duck with a high circular crest on the male's head
philomachus pugnax;common eurasian sandpiper. male has an erectile ruff in breeding season
elephas maximus;asian elephant having smaller ears and tusks primarily in the male
salix purpurea;eurasian osier having reddish or purple twigs and bark rich in tannin
eastern cottonwood;a common poplar of eastern and central united states. cultivated in united states for its rapid growth and luxuriant foliage and in europe for timber
sweet reseda;mediterranean woody annual widely cultivated for its dense terminal spikelike clusters greenish or yellowish white flowers having an intense spicy fragrance
blue sage;blue-flowered sage of dry prairies of the eastern united states
rubus idaeus strigosus;red raspberry of north america
vernal witch hazel;fragrant shrub of lower mississippi valley having very small flowers from midwinter to spring
banyan;east indian tree that puts out aerial shoots that grow down into the soil forming additional trunks
lamper eel;primitive eellike freshwater or anadromous cyclostome having round sucking mouth with a rasping tongue
orange grass;annual wiry-stemmed north american weed with minute scalelike leaves and small yellow flowers
falcon gentil;female falcon esp. a female peregrine falcon
pink paper daisy;flower of southwestern australia having bright pink daisylike papery flowers. grown for drying
western wall flower;biennial or short-lived perennial prairie rocket having orange-yellow flowers. western north america to minnesota and kansas. sometimes placed in genus cheiranthus
pin tailed grouse;sandgrouse of europe and africa having elongated middle tail feathers
hop picker;a machine used for picking hops
teucrium scorodonia;european germander with one-sided racemes of yellow flowers. naturalized in north america
pomace fly;any of numerous small insects whose larvae feed on fruits
whistler;large-headed swift-flying diving duck of arctic regions
madrono;evergreen tree of pacific north america having glossy leathery leaves and orange-red edible berries. wood used for furniture and bark for tanning
sand lance;very small silvery eellike schooling fishes that burrow into sandy beaches
aster ericoides;common much-branched north american perennial with heathlike foliage and small starry white flowers
kola nut tree;tree bearing large brown nuts containing e.g. caffeine. source of cola extract
squawroot;tall herb of eastern north america and asia having blue berrylike fruit and a thick knotty rootstock formerly used medicinally
canella winterana;large evergreen shrub or small tree having white aromatic bark and leathery leaves and small purple to red flowers in terminal cymes
american white oak;large slow-growing deciduous tree of the eastern united states having stout spreading branches and leaves with usually 7 rounded lobes. yields strong and durable hard wood
anacyclus pyrethrum;small mediterranean plant containing a volatile oil once used to relieve toothache
sheeptick;parasitic on sheep and cattle as well as humans. can transmit looping ill in sheep (acute viral disease of the nervous system). a vector for lyme disease spirochete
water arum;plant of wetlands and bogs of temperate regions having small greenish flowers partly enclosed in a white spathe and red berries
oregon cedar;large timber tree of western north america with trunk diameter to 12 feet and height to 200 feet
dinoflagellate;chiefly marine protozoa having two flagella. a chief constituent of plankton
gastrophryne carolinensis;small toad of southeastern united states
codfish;major food fish of arctic and cold-temperate waters
garambulla;arborescent cactus of western mexico bearing a small oblong edible berrylike fruit
arenga pinnata;malaysian feather palm with base densely clothed with fibers. yields a sweet sap used in wine and trunk pith yields sago
myna bird;tropical asian starlings
arctic hare;large hare of arctic america almost completely white in winter
ipomoea pes caprae;prostrate perennial of coastal sand dunes florida to texas
balsam apple;a tropical old world flowering vine with red or orange warty fruit
peruvian balsam;tree of south and central america yielding an aromatic balsam
oryzopsis miliacea;perennial mountain rice native to mediterranean region and introduced into north america
sciurus niger;exceptionally large arboreal squirrel of eastern united states
phalaenoptilus nuttallii;goatsucker of western north america
euphoria litchi;tree of southeastern asia to australia grown primarily for its sweet translucent-fleshed edible fruit resembling litchi nuts. sometimes placed in genera euphoria or nephelium
furze;very spiny and dense evergreen shrub with fragrant golden-yellow flowers. common throughout western europe
nestling;young bird not yet fledged
piciform bird;any of numerous nonpasserine insectivorous climbing birds usually having strong bills for boring wood
sweet basil;annual or perennial of tropical asia having spikes of small white flowers and aromatic leave. one of the most important culinary herbs. used in salads, casseroles, sauces and some liqueurs
melospiza georgiana;north american finch of marshy area
chrysophrys auratus;australian food fish having a pinkish body with blue spots
ortolan;brownish old world bunting often eaten as a delicacy
sea eagle;any of various large eagles that usually feed on fish
pterospermum acerifolium;indian tree having fragrant nocturnal white flowers and yielding a reddish wood used for planking. often grown as an ornamental or shade tree
european box;large slow-growing multistemmed evergreen shrub or small tree. extensively used for hedges or borders and topiary figures
rabbitweed;low-growing sticky subshrub of southwestern united states having narrow linear leaves on many slender branches and hundreds of tiny yellow flower heads
herb roberts;a sticky low herb with small reddish-purple flowers. widespread in the northern hemisphere
wildflower;wild or uncultivated flowering plant
phytolacca dioica;fast-growing herbaceous evergreen tree of south america having a broad trunk with high water content and dark green oval leaves
meadow goldenrod;large north american goldenrod having showy clusters of yellow flowers on arching branches. often a weed
africanized bee;a strain of bees that originated in brazil in the 1950s as a cross between an aggressive african bee and a honeybee. retains most of the traits of the african bee. now spread as far north as texas
toy manchester;breed of small manchester terrier
darmera peltata;rhizomatous perennial herb with large dramatic peltate leaves and white to bright pink flowers in round heads on leafless stems. colonizes stream banks in the california sierra nevada
savory;dwarf aromatic shrub of mediterranean regions
rock pigeon;pale gray eurasian pigeon having black-striped wings from which most domestic species are descended
giant cockroach;large tropical american cockroaches
flying cat;east indian flying squirrel
common sunflower;annual sunflower grown for silage and for its seeds which are a source of oil. common throughout united states and much of north america
danewort;dwarf herbaceous elder of europe having pink flowers and a nauseous odor
chrysanthemum cinerariifolium;white-flowered pyrethrum of balkan area whose pinnate leaves are white and silky-hairy below. source of an insecticide. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
schinus molle;small peruvian evergreen with broad rounded head and slender pendant branches with attractive clusters of greenish flowers followed by clusters of rose-pink fruits
populus alba;a poplar that is widely cultivated in the united states. has white bark and leaves with whitish undersurfaces
fomes igniarius;fungus used in the preparation of punk for fuses
hyla crucifer;small brown tree toad having a shrill call heard near wetlands of eastern united states and canada in early spring
anagasta kuehniella;small moth whose larvae damage stored grain and flour
japanese flowering cherry;ornamental tree with inedible fruits widely cultivated in many varieties for its white blossoms
alewife;shad-like food fish that runs rivers to spawn. often salted or smoked. sometimes placed in genus pomolobus
small cranberry;small red-fruited trailing cranberry of arctic and cool regions of the northern hemisphere
shiitake mushroom;edible east asian mushroom having a golden or dark brown to blackish cap and an inedible stipe
sweet potato whitefly;a variety of whitefly
dianthus chinensis heddewigii;very free-flowering variety distinguished by jagged-edged petals
achillea ptarmica;eurasian herb having loose heads of button-shaped white flowers and long gray-green leaves that cause sneezing when powdered
zanthoxylum fraxineum;small deciduous aromatic shrub (or tree) having spiny branches and yellowish flowers. eastern north america
herb robert;a sticky low herb with small reddish-purple flowers. widespread in the northern hemisphere
northern white cedar;small evergreen of eastern north america having tiny scalelike leaves on flattened branchlets
celtis occidentalis;large deciduous shade tree of southern united states with small deep purple berries
cynopterus sphinx;a variety of fruit eating bat
green mamba;green phase of the black mamba
tropaeolum minus;nonclimbing annual with deep yellow flowers smaller than the common garden nasturtium
chevrotain;very small hornless deer-like ruminant of tropical asia and west africa
great ragweed;a coarse annual with some leaves deeply and palmately 3-cleft or 5-cleft
orange peel fungus;a discomycete with bright orange cup-shaped or saucer-shaped fruiting bodies and pale orange exteriors
bauhinia monandra;shrub or small tree of dutch guiana having clusters of pink purple-streaked flowers
biplane flying fish;having both pectoral and pelvic fins enlarged
sea eagle;large harmless hawk found worldwide that feeds on fish and builds a bulky nest often occupied for years
cucumis melo cantalupensis;a variety of muskmelon vine having fruit with a tan rind and orange flesh
arere;large west african tree having large palmately lobed leaves and axillary cymose panicles of small white flowers and one-winged seeds. yields soft white to pale yellow wood
smallmouth;a variety of black bass. the angle of the jaw falls below the eye
barramunda;large edible australian lungfish having paddle-shaped fins
evergreen winterberry;evergreen holly of eastern north america with oblong leathery leaves and small black berries
obedient plant;north american plant having a spike of two-lipped pink or white flowers
cerastium alpinum;widespread in arctic and on mountains in europe
poronotus triacanthus;small food fish of atlantic coast
porphyrula martinica;american purple gallinule
wyethia;low tufted white-woolly yellow-flowered herb of california
saprolegnia ferax;a fungus that attacks living fish and tadpoles and spawn causing white fungus disease: a coating of white hyphae on especially peripheral parts (as fins)
pike perch;any of several pike-like fishes of the perch family
avicennia marina;a mangrove of the west indies and the southern florida coast. occurs in dense thickets and has numerous short roots that bend up from the ground
fly honeysuckle;erect deciduous north american shrub with red-tinged yellow-white flowers
polemonium viscosum;tall sticky-leaved herb of the rocky mountains having an offensive smell
rough stemmed goldenrod;a variety of goldenrod
diodon holocanthus;similar to but smaller than porcupinefish
woolly apple aphid;primarily a bark feeder on aerial parts and roots of apple and other trees
scaly anteater;toothless mammal of southern africa and asia having a body covered with horny scales and a long snout for feeding on ants and termites
choloepus hoffmanni;relatively small fast-moving sloth
grevillela parallela;small slender tree with usually entire gray-green pendulous leaves and white or cream flowers. northern australia
phellodendron amurense;deciduous tree of china and manchuria having a turpentine aroma and handsome compound leaves turning yellow in autumn and deeply fissured corky bark
euphorbia medusae;african dwarf succulent perennial shrub with numerous slender drooping branches
eastern ground snake;in some classifications placed in genus haldea. small reddish-gray snake of eastern north america
red rockfish;large fish of north american pacific coast
cornus amomum;shrub of eastern north america having purplish stems and blue fruit
papaver alpinum;old world alpine poppy with white or yellow to orange flowers
nyssa aquatica;columnar swamp tree of southeastern to midwestern north america yielding pale soft easily worked wood
lutjanus apodus;food fish of warm caribbean and atlantic waters
musa acuminata;low-growing asian banana tree cultivated especially in the west indies for its clusters of edible yellow fruit
red trillium;trillium of eastern north america having malodorous pink to purple flowers and an astringent root used in fold medicine especially to ease childbirth
prunus pensylvanica;small shrubby north american wild cherry with small bright red acid fruit
rhinoptera bonasus;large ray found along eastern coast of north america
pennisetum cenchroides;erect tussock-forming perennial bur grass used in especially in south africa and australia for pasture and forage
laburnum alpinum;an ornamental shrub or tree of the genus laburnum
stone mimicry plant;highly succulent stemless clump-forming plants with gray-green leaves similar in texture to lumps of granite. south africa
allium cernuum;widely distributed north american wild onion with white to rose flowers
antilocapra americana;fleet antelope-like ruminant of western north american plains with small branched horns
escolar;large snake mackerel with rings like spectacles around its eyes
cape may warbler;north american wood warbler. olive green and yellow striped with black
strangler fig;a strangler tree native to southern florida and west indies. begins as an epiphyte eventually developing many trunklike aerial roots and covering enormous areas
oxalis violacea;perennial herb of eastern north america with palmately compound leaves and usually rose-purple flowers
freshwater eel;eels that live in fresh water as adults but return to sea to spawn. found in europe and america. marketed both fresh and smoked
cypriniform fish;a soft-finned fish of the order cypriniformes
yellowhammer;european bunting the male being bright yellow
emerald creeper;vigorous philippine evergreen twining liana. grown for spectacular festoons of green lobster-claw-like flowers
hen of the woods;large grayish-brown edible fungus forming a mass of overlapping caps that somewhat resembles a hen at the base of trees
chickadee;any of various small gray-and-black songbirds of north america
salmonberry;white-flowered raspberry of western north america and northern mexico with thimble-shaped orange berries
tulipa gesneriana;tall late-blooming tulip
pelargonium peltatum;a commonly cultivated trailing south american plant with peltate leaves and rosy flowers
allice shad;european shad
syringa josikaea;central european upright shrub having elliptic leaves and upright clusters of lilac or deep violet flowers
anemone pulsatilla;european perennial having usually violet or white spring flowers
marabou;large african black-and-white carion-eating stork. downy under-wing feathers are used to trim garments
allis shad;european shad
scarlet fritillary;western united states herb with scarlet and yellow narrow bell-shaped flowers
white pine;any of several 5-needled pines with white wood and smooth usually light gray bark when young. especially the eastern white pine
paliurus spina christi;thorny eurasian shrub with dry woody winged fruit
canada ginger;deciduous low-growing perennial of canada and eastern and central united states
hoary alison;tall european annual with downy gray-green foliage and dense heads of small white flowers followed by hairy pods. naturalized in north america. sometimes a troublesome weed
gray partridge;common european partridge
chicken snake;large north american snake
juncus tenuis;tufted wiry rush of wide distribution
silvia atricapilla;small brownish-gray warbler with a black crown
lentinus edodes;edible east asian mushroom having a golden or dark brown to blackish cap and an inedible stipe
seaside mahoe;pantropical tree of usually seacoasts sometimes cultivated as an ornamental for its rounded heart-shaped leaves and showy yellow and purple flowers. yields valuable pink to dark red close-grained wood and oil from its seeds
mountain sheep;any wild sheep inhabiting mountainous regions
governor plum;small shrubby tree of madagascar cultivated in tropical regions as a hedge plant and for its deep red acid fruits resembling small plums
blacktail jackrabbit;the common jackrabbit of grasslands and open areas of western united states. has large black-tipped ears and black streak on the tail
ivy;old world vine with lobed evergreen leaves and black berrylike fruits
flying phalanger;nocturnal phalangers that move with gliding leaps using parachute-like folds of skin along the sides of the body
cape buffalo;large often savage buffalo of southern africa having upward-curving horns. mostly in game reserves
botrychium matricariifolium;of north america and eurasia
pattypan squash;squash plant having flattened round fruit with a scalloped edge. usually greenish white
western pipistrel;of western north america
gallfly;any of various insects that deposit their eggs in plants causing galls in which the larvae feed
helianthus maximilianii;tall perennial of central united states to canada having golden-yellow flowers
box;evergreen shrubs or small trees
corvus frugilegus;common gregarious old world bird about the size and color of the american crow
italian ryegrass;european grass much used for hay and in united states also for turf and green manure
coffee tree;any of several small trees and shrubs native to the tropical old world yielding coffee beans
horned owl;large owls having prominent ear tufts
dutch elm beetle;a vector of the fungus causing dutch elm disease
cupressus goveniana;small sometimes shrubby tree native to california. often used as an ornamental. in some classification systems includes the pygmy cypress and the santa cruz cypress
melolonthid beetle;any of various beetles of the family (or subfamily) melolonthidae
stoneface;any plant of the genus lithops native to africa having solitary yellow or white flowers and thick leaves that resemble stones
valeriana officinalis;tall rhizomatous plant having very fragrant flowers and rhizomes used medicinally
hyacinthus orientalis;widely grown for its fragrance and its white, pink, blue, or purplish flowers
gerardia pedicularia;multi-stemmed north american annual having solitary axillary dark golden-yellow flowers resembling those of the foxglove. sometimes placed in genus gerardia
cytisus ramentaceus;erect shrub having large trifoliate leaves and dense clusters of yellow flowers followed by poisonous seeds. yugoslavia. sometimes placed in genus cytisus
pepperwort;any of several water ferns of the genus marsilea having four leaflets
citrullus vulgaris;an african melon
sand fly;blood-sucking females can transmit sandfly fever
moorfowl;reddish-brown grouse of upland moors of great britain
vultur gryphus;large vulture of the high andes having black plumage and white neck ruff
peahen;female peafowl
phalacrocorax carbo;large voracious dark-colored long-necked seabird with a distensible pouch for holding fish. used in asia to catch fish
sorghum vulgare rosburghii;sorghum having slender dry stalks and small hard grains. introduced into united states from india
mole plant;poisonous old world spurge. adventive in america. seeds yield a purgative oil
rock beauty;gold and black butterflyfish found from west indies to brazil
bird s foot trefoil;old world herb related to fenugreek
diapensia;any boreal low-growing evergreen plant of the genus diapensia
solidago rugosa;eastern north american herb whose yellow flowers are (or were) used in dyeing
black vulture;american vulture smaller than the turkey buzzard
blue mold fungus;fungus causing a serious disease in tobacco plants characterized by bluish-gray mildew on undersides of leaves
spipistrellus hesperus;of western north america
rupicola rupicola;tropical bird of northern south america the male having brilliant red or orange plumage and an erectile disklike crest
nummulite;large fossil protozoan of the tertiary period
telegraph plant;erect tropical asian shrub whose small lateral leaflets rotate on their axes and jerk up and down under the influence of sunshine
wild rice;perennial aquatic grass of north america bearing grain used for food
sarracenia flava;pitcher plant of southeastern united states having erect wide-mouth yellow trumpet-shaped pitchers with erect lids
chaetognath;any worm of the chaetognatha. transparent marine worm with horizontal lateral and caudal fins and a row of movable curved spines at each side of the mouth
ardea herodius;large american heron having bluish-gray plumage
alpine hulsea;low tufted plant having hairy stems each topped by a flower head with short narrow yellow rays. northwestern united states
jackfruit;east indian tree cultivated for its immense edible fruit and seeds
canary;any of several small old world finches
canis familiaris;a member of the genus canis (probably descended from the common wolf) that has been domesticated by man since prehistoric times. occurs in many breeds. 'the dog barked all night'
green plover;large crested old world plover having wattles and spurs
candleberry;deciduous aromatic shrub of eastern north america with gray-green wax-coated berries
compsognathus;very small bipedal carnivorous dinosaur of the late jurassic in bavaria
coptis groenlandica;low-growing perennial of north america woodlands having trifoliate leaves and yellow rootstock and white flowers
carduelis carduelis;small european finch having a crimson face and yellow-and-black wings
broad bean;old world upright plant grown especially for its large flat edible seeds but also as fodder
merluccius bilinearis;found off atlantic coast of north america
celandine poppy;perennial here native to woodland of the eastern united states having yellow flowers
deer mushroom;a small edible agaric with a slender stalk. usually found on rotting hardwoods
buzz saw;a saw that has a steel disk with cutting teeth on the periphery. rotates on a spindle
anglewing;nymphalid butterfly having angular notches on the outer edges of the forewings
star anise;small shrubby tree of japan and taiwan. flowers are not fragrant
st bernard;a swiss alpine breed of large powerful thick-coated dog used as a rescue dog
compass plant;north american annual with red or rose-colored flowers
bonnet macaque;indian macaque with a bonnet-like tuft of hair
goat s rue;tall bushy european perennial grown for its masses of light-textured pinnate foliage and slender spikes of blue flowers. sometimes used medicinally
mountain alder;small shrubby maple of eastern north america. scarlet in autumn
rhesus monkey;of southern asia. used in medical research
white rust;fungus causing a disease characterized by a white powdery mass of conidia
anemone fish;live associated with sea anemones
eastern kingbird;a kingbird that breeds in north american and winters in tropical america. distinguished by a white band on the tip of the tail
red amaranth;tall showy tropical american annual having hairy stems and long spikes of usually red flowers above leaves deeply flushed with purple. seeds often used as cereal
smooth lip fern;southeastern united states to northern mexico and jamaica
hog;domestic swine
springer spaniel;a large spaniel with wavy silky coat usually black or liver and white
amberjack;any of several amber to coppery fork-tailed warm-water carangid fishes
ictonyx frenata;north african muishond
ruddy duck;reddish-brown stiff-tailed duck of north america and and northern south america
irish water spaniel;breed of large spaniels developed in ireland having a heavy coat of liver-colored curls and a topknot of long curls and a nearly hairless tail
foxberry;low evergreen shrub of high north temperate regions of europe and asia and america bearing red edible berries
otus sunia;asian scops owl
snake palm;foul-smelling somewhat fleshy tropical plant of southeastern asia cultivated for its edible corms or in the greenhouse for its large leaves and showy dark red spathe surrounding a large spadix
silky willow;small shrubby tree of western north america (alaska to oregon)
viburnum opulus;deciduous thicket-forming old world shrub with clusters of white flowers and small bright red berries
fruit bat;large old world bat of warm and tropical regions that feeds on fruit
pygmy mouse;very small dark grayish brown mouse resembling a house mouse. of texas and mexico
australian nettle tree;any of several tall australian trees of the genus laportea
tragelaphus strepsiceros;a variety of kudu
makomako;graceful deciduous shrub or small tree having attractive foliage and small red berries that turn black at maturity and are used for making wine
lipstick plant;epiphyte or creeping on rocks. malaysian plant having somewhat fleshy leaves and bright red flowers
plumcot tree;hybrid produced by crossing prunus domestica and prunus armeniaca
himantopus himantopus leucocephalus;stilt of the southwest pacific including australia and new zealand having mostly white plumage but with black wings and nape of neck
snap bean;common bean plant cultivated for its slender green edible pods
spanish broom;tall thornless shrub having pale yellow flowers and flexible rushlike twigs used in basketry. of southwestern europe and mediterranean. naturalized in california
bottlebrush buckeye;a spreading shrub with pink flowers. found in southeastern united states
california buckwheat;low-growing shrub with spreading branches and flowers in loose heads. desert regions of western united states (california to utah)
tawny owl;reddish-brown european owl having a round head with black eyes
wiggler;terrestrial worm that burrows into and helps aerate soil. often surfaces when the ground is cool or wet. used as bait by anglers
aspalathus cedcarbergensis;south african shrub having flat acuminate leaves and yellow flowers. leaves are aromatic when dried and used to make an herbal tea
minicomputer;mid-sized digital computer
lesser scaup;common scaup of north america. males have purplish heads
sharptail mola;caudal fin has a central projection
homopterous insect;insects having membranous forewings and hind wings
fasciola hepatica;flatworm parasitic in liver and bile ducts of domestic animals and humans
nierembergia rivularis;prostrate woody south american herb with white tubular flowers often tinged with blue or rose
black sheep;sheep with a black coat
atlantic bonito;medium-sized tuna-like food fish of warm atlantic and pacific waters. less valued than tuna
barbasco;west indian shrub or small tree having leathery saponaceous leaves and extremely hard wood
hen hawk;nontechnical term for any hawks said to prey on poultry
poler;a horse harnessed alongside the shaft or pole of a vehicle
salix triandra;old world willow with light green leaves cultivated for use in basketry
kawaka;new zealand timber tree resembling the cypress
actinozoan;sessile marine coelenterates including solitary and colonial polyps. the medusoid phase is entirely suppressed
bradley s spleenwort;a spleenwort of eastern to southern united states
solanum rostratum;north american nightshade with with prickly foliage and racemose yellow flowers
three toed sloth;a sloth that has three long claws on each forefoot
populus heterophylla;north american poplar with large rounded scalloped leaves and brownish bark and wood
searcher beetle;large metallic blue-green beetle that preys on caterpillars. north america
scented fern;fern of eastern north america with pale green fronds and hay-like aroma
nymphaea alba;a water lily with white flowers
elymus canadensis;north american wild rye
southern blue flag;similar to blue flag. the eastern united states
bull nettle;coarse prickly weed having pale yellow flowers and yellow berrylike fruit. common throughout southern and eastern united states
moreton bay pine;pine of australia and new guinea. yields a valuable light even-textured wood
kittul;fishtail palm of india to malay peninsula. sap yields a brown sugar (jaggery) and trunk pith yields sago
jackhammer;a hammer driven by compressed air
awlwort;small aquatic plant having tufted awl-shaped leaves in a basal rosette and minute white flowers. circumboreal
locust;any of various hard-wooded trees of the family leguminosae
trunkfish;any of numerous small tropical fishes having body and head encased in bony plates
loranthus europaeus;shrub of central and southeastern europe. partially parasitic on beeches, chestnuts and oaks
ginger;perennial plants having thick branching aromatic rhizomes and leafy reedlike stems
echinocactus;any cactus of the genus echinocactus. strongly ribbed and very spiny. southwestern united states to brazil
ilama;tropical american tree grown in southern united states having a whitish pink-tinged fruit
cony;small short-eared burrowing mammal of rocky uplands of asia and western north america
canada thistle;european thistle naturalized in united states and canada where it is a pernicious weed
carpobrotus edulis;low-growing south african succulent plant having a capsular fruit containing edible pulp
devil s urn;a common name for a variety of sarcosomataceae
quamash;any of several plants of the genus camassia. north and south america
spring frog;common north american green or brownish frog having white-edged dark oval spots
peccary;nocturnal gregarious pig-like wild animals of north and south america
galaxy;tufted evergreen perennial herb having spikes of tiny white flowers and glossy green round to heart-shaped leaves that become coppery to maroon or purplish in fall
tricholoma sejunctum;an agaric with a cap that is coated with dark fibrils in the center and has yellowish margins
protoctist;any of the unicellular protists
pinus longaeva;small slow-growing pine of western united states similar to the bristlecone pine. chocolate brown bark in plates and short needles in bunches of 5. crown conic but becoming rough and twisted. oldest plant in the world growing to 5000 years in cold semi-desert mountain tops
woolly rhinoceros;extinct thick-haired species of arctic regions
gum tree;any of various trees of the genera eucalyptus or liquidambar or nyssa that are sources of gum
pineweed;annual wiry-stemmed north american weed with minute scalelike leaves and small yellow flowers
character at a time printer;a printer that prints a single character at a time
amberfish;any of several amber to coppery fork-tailed warm-water carangid fishes
boston fern;a sword fern with arching or drooping pinnate fronds. a popular houseplant
bumblebee;robust hairy social bee of temperate regions
koodoo;either of two spiral-horned antelopes of the african bush
crambe maritima;perennial of coastal sands and shingles of northern europe and baltic and black seas having racemes of small white flowers and large fleshy blue-green leaves often used as potherbs
iguana iguana;large herbivorous tropical american arboreal lizards with a spiny crest along the back. used as human food in central and south america
sagitta;any arrowworm of the genus sagitta
myrtle bird;similar to audubon's warbler
poinciana gilliesii;a tropical flowering shrub having bright orange or red flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
water chinquapin;water lily of eastern north america having pale yellow blossoms and edible globular nutlike seeds
hedge bindweed;common eurasian and american wild climber with pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus convolvulus
coffeeberry;evergreen shrub of western united states bearing small red or black fruits
asparagus plumosus;a fernlike plant native to south africa
wheatworm;small roundworm parasitic on wheat
brahma;any of several breeds of indian cattle especially a large american heat- and tick-resistant grayish humped breed evolved in the gulf states by interbreeding indian cattle and now used chiefly for crossbreeding
alauda arvensis;brown-speckled european lark noted for singing while hovering at a great height
grapevine;any of numerous woody vines of genus vitis bearing clusters of edible berries
anas discors;american teal
elaphe guttata;large harmless snake of southeastern united states. often on farms
parroquet;any of numerous small slender long-tailed parrots
pholiota aurea;a beautiful yellow gilled fungus found from alaska south along the coast
huamachil;common thorny tropical american tree having terminal racemes of yellow flowers followed by sickle-shaped or circinate edible pods and yielding good timber and a yellow dye and mucilaginous gum
prairie rocket;any of several north american plants of the genus erysimum having large yellow flowers
indian bean;perennial twining vine of old world tropics having trifoliate leaves and racemes of fragrant purple pealike flowers followed by maroon pods of edible seeds. grown as an ornamental and as a vegetable on the indian subcontinent. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
togavirus;any of a group of single-strand rna viruses including those causing hepatitis non-a non-b and yellow fever
bladderwrack;common black rockweed used in preparing kelp and as manure
field scabious;perennial having bluish-lilac flowers. introduced in the eastern united states
sword lily;any of numerous plants of the genus gladiolus native chiefly to tropical and south africa having sword-shaped leaves and one-sided spikes of brightly colored funnel-shaped flowers. widely cultivated
cygnus columbianus columbianus;north american subspecies of tundra swan having a soft whistling note
sarcosporidian;parasite of the muscles of vertebrates
trophozoite;a sporozoan in the active feeding stage of its life cycle
daboecia cantabrica;low straggling evergreen shrub of western europe represented by several varieties with flowers from white to rose-purple
amorphophallus;any plant of the genus amorphophallus
ladyfish;game fish resembling the tarpon but smaller
false oat;coarse perennial eurasian oatlike grass found on roadside verges and rough grassland and in hay meadows. introduced in north america for forage
meles meles;a variety of badger native to europe and asia
ratite;flightless birds having flat breastbones lacking a keel for attachment of flight muscles: ostriches. cassowaries. emus. moas. rheas. kiwis. elephant birds
belle de nuit;pantropical climber having white fragrant nocturnal flowers
marguerite;perennial subshrub of the canary islands having usually pale yellow daisylike flowers. often included in genus chrysanthemum
chihuahua;old breed of tiny short-coated dog with protruding eyes from mexico held to antedate aztec civilization
percoidean;any of numerous spiny-finned fishes of the order perciformes
lepiota clypeolaria;an agaric with a ragged stalk and a soft floccose cap
blood clam;red-blooded clam
arctiid;stout-bodied broad-winged moth with conspicuously striped or spotted wings. larvae are hairy caterpillars
puka;small round-headed new zealand tree having large resinous leaves and panicles of green-white flowers
phacelia campanularia;annual of southern california with intricately branched stems and lax cymes of aromatic deep blue bell-shaped flowers
coral bean;shrub or small tree having pinnate leaves poisonous to livestock and dense racemes of intensely fragrant blue flowers and red beans
nothofagus cuninghamii;large evergreen tree of tasmania
coffee mill;grinds roasted coffee beans
stonecrop;any of various northern temperate plants of the genus sedum having fleshy leaves and red or yellow or white flowers
requiem shark;any of numerous sharks from small relatively harmless bottom-dwellers to large dangerous oceanic and coastal species
cortaderia richardii;tall grass of new zealand grown for plumelike flower heads
yukon white birch;alaskan birch with white to pale brown bark
swamp dewberry;of eastern north america
confervoid algae;algae resembling confervae especially in having branching filaments
callorhinus ursinus;of pacific coast from alaska southward to california
ursus arctos middendorffi;brown bear of coastal alaska and british columbia
pewee;small olive-colored woodland flycatchers of eastern north america
loom;a machine for weaving yarn into a textile
anopheline;any mosquito of the genus anopheles
canterbury bell;european biennial widely cultivated for its blue or violet or white flowers
cancer weed;sage of eastern united states
ounce;large feline of upland central asia having long thick whitish fur
nomia melanderi;a common solitary bee important for pollinating alfalfa in the western united states
smooth darling pea;erect or trailing perennial of eastern australia having axillary racemes of blue to purple or red flowers
australian pea;south african evergreen partly woody vine grown for its clusters of rosy purple flowers followed by edible pods like snap beans. also grown as green manure. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
holarrhena antidysenterica;tropical asian tree with hard white wood and bark formerly used as a remedy for dysentery and diarrhea
tapeworm;ribbon-like flatworms that are parasitic in the intestines of humans and other vertebrates
eared seal;pinniped mammal having external ear flaps and hind limbs used for locomotion on land. valued for its soft underfur
phlomis fruticosa;a spreading subshrub of mediterranean regions cultivated for dense axillary whorls of purple or yellow flowers
striped hyena;of northern africa and arabia and india
pseudococcus comstocki;asiatic insect introduced accidentally into united states. pest on citrus and apple trees
bird of paradise;any of numerous brilliantly colored plumed birds of the new guinea area
spoonbill;wading birds having a long flat bill with a tip like a spoon
striped muishond;ferret-sized muishond often tamed
asiatic black bear;black bear of central and eastern asia
arisarum vulgare;tuberous perennial having a cowl-shaped maroon or violet-black spathe. mediterranean. canaries. azores
alosa sapidissima;shad of atlantic coast of north america. naturalized to pacific coast
griffon;breed of various very small compact wiry-coated dogs of belgian origin having a short bearded muzzle
monotreme;the most primitive mammals comprising the only extant members of the subclass prototheria
munja;tough asiatic grass whose culms are used for ropes and baskets
habenaria psycodes;north american orchid with clusters of fragrant purple fringed flowers
cassia roxburghii;east indian tree having long pods containing a black cathartic pulp used as a horse medicine
nymphalid;medium to large butterflies found worldwide typically having brightly colored wings and much-reduced nonfunctional forelegs carried folded on the breast
golden eyed fly;a variety of green lacewing
rattlesnake weed;a hawkweed with a rosette of purple-veined basal leaves. canada to northern georgia and kentucky
purple fringed orchis;north american orchid with clusters of fragrant purple fringed flowers
mexican sunflower;any plant of the genus tithonia. tall coarse herbs or shrubs of mexico to panama having large sunflowerlike flower heads with yellow disc florets and golden-yellow to orange-scarlet rays
pot marigold;the common european annual marigold
poison dogwood;smooth american swamp shrub with pinnate leaves and greenish flowers followed by greenish white berries. yields an irritating oil
lacewing fly;any of two families of gauzy-winged insects (chrysopidae and hemerobiidae). larvae feed on insect pests such as aphids
euderma maculata;large spotted bat of southwestern united states having enormous ears
exmoor;stocky breed of pony with a fawn-colored nose
chalcid;any of various tiny insects whose larvae are parasites on eggs and larvae of other insects. many are beneficial in destroying injurious insects
hydrodamalis gigas;extinct large sirenian mammal formerly found near asiatic coast of the bering sea
wading bird;any of many long-legged birds that wade in water in search of food
china pink;chinese pink with deeply toothed rose-lilac flowers with a purplish eye. usually raised as an annual
bessera elegans;half-hardy mexican herb cultivated for its drooping terminal umbels of showy red-and-white flowers
emberiza hortulana;brownish old world bunting often eaten as a delicacy
coneflower;any of various perennials of the eastern united states having thick rough leaves and long-stalked showy flowers with drooping rays and a conelike center
chinese yam;hardy chinese vine naturalized in united states and cultivated as an ornamental climber for its glossy heart-shaped cinnamon-scented leaves and in the tropics for its edible tubers
alligator sinensis;small of the yangtze valley of china having unwebbed digits
scutigera coleoptrata;long-legged centipede common in damp places as e.g. cellars
ficus religiosa;fig tree of india noted for great size and longevity. lacks the prop roots of the banyan
symplocarpus foetidus;deciduous perennial low-growing fetid swamp plant of eastern north america having minute flowers enclosed in a mottled greenish or purple cowl-shaped spathe
ketembilla tree;small shrubby spiny tree cultivated for its maroon-purple fruit with sweet purple pulp tasking like gooseberries. sri lanka and india
spanish mackerel;any of several large marine food fishes of the genus scomberomorus
epstein barr virus;the herpes virus that causes infectious mononucleosis. associated with specific cancers in africa and china
cutlassfish;long-bodied marine fishes having a long whiplike scaleless body and sharp teeth. closely related to snake_mackerel
common opossum;omnivorous opossum of the eastern united states. noted for feigning death when in danger. esteemed as food in some areas. considered same species as the crab-eating opossum of south america
ague weed;gentian of eastern north america having clusters of bristly blue flowers
summer savory;erect annual herb with oval leaves and pink flowers. used to flavor e.g. meats or soups or salads. southeastern europe and naturalized elsewhere
pachysandra terminalis;slow-growing japanese evergreen subshrub having terminal spikes of white flowers. grown as a ground cover
rhododendron viscosum;shrub growing in swamps throughout the eastern united states and having small white to pinkish honeysucklelike flowers
dogie;motherless calf in a range herd of cattle
ribes sanguineum;a flowering shrub
jaybird;common jay of eastern north america. bright blue with grey breast
mentha rotundifolia;mint with apple-scented stems of southern and western europe. naturalized in united states
european mountain ash;eurasian tree with orange-red berrylike fruits
plagianthus regius;deciduous new zealand tree whose inner bark yields a strong flax-like fiber called new zealand cotton
bush pea;any of various plants of the genus thermopsis having trifoliate leaves and yellow or purple racemose flowers
canvasback duck;north american wild duck valued for sport and food
angelica archangelica;a biennial cultivated herb. its stems are candied and eaten and its roots are used medicinally
albizia lebbeck;large spreading old world tree having large leaves and globose clusters of greenish-yellow flowers and long seed pods that clatter in the wind
mahoe;shrubby tree widely distributed along tropical shores. yields a light tough wood used for canoe outriggers and a fiber used for cordage and caulk. often cultivated for ornament
vaccinium pennsylvanicum;low-growing deciduous shrub of northeastern north america having flowers in compact racemes and bearing sweet dark blue berries
abies venusta;a pyramidal fir of southwestern california having spiny pointed leaves and cone scales with long spines
rock rattlesnake;mountain rock dweller of mexico and most southern parts of united states southwest
ipomoea fastigiata;tropical american prostrate or climbing herbaceous perennial having an enormous starchy root. sometimes held to be source of the sweet potato
tongueless frog;almost completely aquatic frog native to africa and panama and northern south america
leucaena leucocephala;low scrubby tree of tropical and subtropical north america having white mimosalike flowers tinged with yellow and long flattened pods
iceland poppy;subarctic perennial poppy of both hemispheres having fragrant white or yellow to orange or peach flowers
black nightshade;eurasian herb naturalized in america having white flowers and poisonous hairy foliage and bearing black berries that are sometimes poisonous but sometimes edible
madeira winter cherry;small south american shrub cultivated as a houseplant for its abundant ornamental but poisonous red or yellow cherry-sized fruit
blastosphere;early stage of an embryo produced by cleavage of an ovum. a hollow sphere whose wall is composed of a single layer of cells
sand lizard;one of the most abundant lizards in the arid western united states
seriphidium tridentatum;aromatic shrub of arid regions of western north america having hoary leaves
hemlock;an evergreen tree
space rocket;a rocket powerful enough to travel into outer space
horsehead;any of several silvery marine fishes with very flat bodies
hot rock penstemon;stems in clumps with cream-colored flowers. washington state to wyoming and south to california and utah
curly heads;shrubby clematis of the eastern united states having curly foliage
winter heath;dwarf european shrub with very early-blooming bell-shaped red flowers
slow loris;stocky lemur of southeastern asia
pigeon pea plant;tropical woody herb with showy yellow flowers and flat pods. much cultivated in the tropics
chinchilla;small rodent with soft pearly gray fur. native to the andes but bred in captivity for fur
mexican cypress;tall spreading evergreen native to mexico having drooping branches. believed to have been introduced into portugal from goa its indian territory
stenotaphrum secundatum;low mat-forming grass of southern united states and tropical america. grown as a lawn grass
bladderwort;any of numerous aquatic carnivorous plants of the genus utricularia some of whose leaves are modified as small urn-shaped bladders that trap minute aquatic animals
canadian goose;common grayish-brown wild goose of north america
firewheel tree;eastern australian tree widely cultivated as a shade tree and for its glossy leaves and circular clusters of showy red to orange-scarlet flowers
australian grass tree;stout australian shrub with narrow leaves crowded at ends of branches and terminal clusters of white or pink flowers
carpet shark;shark of the western pacific with flattened body and mottled skin
english cocker spaniel;a small breed with a wavy silky hair originally developed in england
black ash;vigorous spreading north american tree having dark brown heavy wood. leaves turn gold in autumn
lion;large gregarious predatory feline of africa and india having a tawny coat with a shaggy mane in the male
northern flying squirrel;large flying squirrel. chiefly of canada
dacelo gigas;australian kingfisher having a loud cackling cry
siris;large spreading old world tree having large leaves and globose clusters of greenish-yellow flowers and long seed pods that clatter in the wind
rabbit eye blueberry;shrub of southeastern united states grown commercially especially for canning industry
heath hen;female black grouse
red dogwood;common north american shrub with reddish purple twigs and white flowers
skunk bear;stocky shaggy-coated north american carnivorous mammal
betula populifolia;medium-sized birch of eastern north america having white or pale gray bark and valueless wood. occurs often as a second-browth forest tree
greater scaup;large scaup of north america having a greenish iridescence on the head of the male
hogweed;tall coarse plant having thick stems and cluster of white to purple flowers
multistage rocket;the first stage of a multistage rocket
ironwood;handsome east indian evergreen tree often planted as an ornamental for its fragrant white flowers that yield a perfume. source of very heavy hardwood used for railroad ties
climbing salamander;any of several north american salamanders adapted for climbing with well-developed limbs and long somewhat squared-off toes
istiophorus albicans;a kind of sailfish
trogon;forest bird of warm regions of the new world having brilliant lustrous plumage and long tails
dayflower;any plant of the family commelinaceae
sparmannia africana;large shrub of south africa having many conspicuously hairy branches with large hairy leaves and clusters of conspicuous white flowers
shadblow;any of various north american trees or shrubs having showy white flowers and edible blue-black or purplish fruit
eaglet;a young eagle
butterfish;small marine fish with a short smooth-scaled compressed body and feeble spines
onobrychis viciaefolia;eurasian perennial herb having pale pink flowers and curved pods. naturalized in britain and north america grasslands on calcareous soils. important forage crop and source of honey in britain
blennioid fish;elongated mostly scaleless marine fishes with large pectoral fins and reduced pelvic fins
colic root;any of several perennials of the genus aletris having grasslike leaves and bitter roots reputed to cure colic
white currant;garden currant bearing small white berries
monarch;large migratory american butterfly having deep orange wings with black and white markings. the larvae feed on milkweed
macrozoarces americanus;common along northeastern coast of north america
epipactis helleborine;european orchid with spikes of green and pinkish or purplish flowers
silverweed;low-growing perennial having leaves silvery beneath. northern united states. europe. asia
argyroxiphium sandwicense;low-growing plant found only in volcanic craters on hawaii having rosettes of narrow pointed silver-green leaves and clusters of profuse red-purple flowers on a tall stem
pale violet;leafy-stemmed violet of eastern north america having large white or creamy flowers faintly marked with purple
venus s flytraps;carnivorous plant of coastal plains of the carolinas having sensitive hinged marginally bristled leaf blades that close and entrap insects
kafir corn;important for human and animal food. growth habit and stem form similar to indian corn but having sawtooth-edged leaves
satureja vulgaris;aromatic herb having heads of small pink or whitish flowers. widely distributed in united states, europe and asia
wax palm;brazilian fan palm having an edible root. source of a useful leaf fiber and a brittle yellowish wax
scorpion shell;any of numerous tropical marine snails that as adults have the outer lip of the aperture produced into a series of long curved spines
band tail pigeon;wild pigeon of western north america. often mistaken for the now extinct passenger pigeon
psidium cattleianum;small tropical shrubby tree bearing deep red oval fruit
wolverine;stocky shaggy-coated north american carnivorous mammal
kinglet;small birds resembling warblers but having some of the habits of titmice
billy buttons;any of various plants of the genus craspedia grown for their downy foliage and globose heads of golden flowers. australia and new zealand
herpestes nyula;keen-sighted viverrine of southern asia about the size of a ferret. often domesticated
mocking thrush;thrush-like american songbird able to mimic other birdsongs
broccoli;plant with dense clusters of tight green flower buds
american pit bull terrier;american breed of muscular terriers with a short close-lying stiff coat
lemon sole;small european sole
carnegiea gigantea;extremely large treelike cactus of desert regions of southwestern united states having a thick columnar sparsely branched trunk bearing white flowers and edible red pulpy fruit
daylily;any of numerous perennials having tuberous roots and long narrow bladelike leaves and usually yellow lilylike flowers that bloom for only a day
woodcock;game bird of the sandpiper family that resembles a snipe
hack;a horse kept for hire
beebalm;perennial herb of north america
peppermint;red gum tree of tasmania
ball nightshade;coarse prickly weed having pale yellow flowers and yellow berrylike fruit. common throughout southern and eastern united states
calypso;rare north temperate bog orchid bearing a solitary white to pink flower marked with purple at the tip of an erect reddish stalk above 1 basal leaf
sargassum bacciferum;brown algae with rounded bladders forming dense floating masses in tropical atlantic waters as in the sargasso sea
gazella thomsoni;e african gazelle. smallest gazelle
presbytes entellus;langur of southern asia. regarded as sacred in india
coleus amboinicus;an aromatic fleshy herb of india and ceylon to south africa. sometimes placed in genus plectranthus
portable;a small light typewriter
mountain phlox;low tufted perennial phlox with needlelike evergreen leaves and pink or white flowers. native to united states and widely cultivated as a ground cover
icterus galbula bullockii;western subspecies of northern oriole
blue columbine;columbine of rocky mts having long-spurred blue flowers
nerodia sipedon;in some classifications placed in the genus nerodia. western united states snake that seldom ventures far from water
robber frog;of southwest united states and mexico. call is like a dog's bark
spiranthes cernua;an orchid of the genus spiranthes having tall erect densely flowered spiraling clusters of creamy white vanilla-scented flowers. widely distributed especially in low damp places of eastern and central north america
petasites vulgaris;small eurasian herb having broad leaves and lilac-pink rayless flowers. found in moist areas
netted melon;a muskmelon vine with fruit that has a thin reticulated rind and sweet green flesh
jordanella floridae;flagfish with a dark-blue back and whitish sides with red stripes. found in swamps and streams of florida
blue fleabane;widespread weed with pale purple-blue flowers
glade fern;north american fern with narrow fronds on yellowish leafstalks
eucalyptus amygdalina;red gum tree of tasmania
placuna placenta;marine bivalve common in philippine coastal waters characterized by a large thin flat translucent shell
martynia annua;sprawling annual or perennial herb of central america and west indies having creamy-white to red-purple bell-shaped flowers followed by unusual horned fruit
rough fish;any fish useless for food or sport or even as bait
tenebrionid;sluggish hard-bodied black terrestrial weevil whose larvae feed on e.g. decaying plant material or grain
sea catfish;any of numerous marine fishes most of which are mouthbreeders. not used for food
salvia lancifolia;sage of western north america to central america having violet-blue flowers. widespread in cultivation
silversides;the common north american shiner
panther;large american feline resembling a lion
hare;swift timid long-eared mammal larger than a rabbit having a divided upper lip and long hind legs. young born furred and with open eyes
eastern chipmunk;small striped semiterrestrial eastern american squirrel with cheek pouches
mirabilis uniflora;common garden plant of north america having fragrant red or purple or yellow or white flowers that open in late afternoon
bush violet;any of several herbs of the genus browallia cultivated for their blue or violet or white flowers
kingfish;any of several food and game fishes of the drum family indigenous to warm atlantic waters of the north american coast
cottonweed;american everlasting having foliage with soft wooly hairs and corymbose heads with pearly white bracts
cymbid;any of various plants of the genus cymbidium having narrow leaves and a long drooping cluster of numerous showy and variously colored boat-shaped flowers. extensively hybridized and cultivated as houseplants and important florists' flowers
western poison oak;poisonous shrub of the north american pacific coast causing a rash on contact
dalmatian iris;european iris having soft lilac-blue flowers
opheodrys vernalis;of western and central united states
black eyed susan;tropical african climbing plant having yellow flowers with a dark purple center
american quaking aspen;slender aspen native to north america
aegypius monachus;of southern eurasia and northern africa
miltomate;mexican annual naturalized in eastern north america having yellow to purple edible fruit resembling small tomatoes
lady s tresses;an orchid of the genus spiranthes having slender often twisted spikes of white flowers
lanternfish;small fish having rows of luminous organs along each side. some surface at night
phototropic bacteria;green and purple bacteria. energy for growth is derived from sunlight. carbon is derived from carbon dioxide or organic carbon
rose chafer;a common metallic green european beetle: larvae feed on plant roots and adults on leaves and flowers of e.g. roses
erysimum arkansanum;biennial or short-lived perennial prairie rocket having orange-yellow flowers. western north america to minnesota and kansas. sometimes placed in genus cheiranthus
hooded seal;medium-sized blackish-gray seal with large inflatable sac on the head. of arctic-atlantic waters
mountain blacksnake;large harmless shiny black north american snake
lady slipper;any of several chiefly american wildflowers having an inflated pouchlike lip. difficult or impossible to cultivate in the garden
lycosa tarentula;large southern european spider once thought to be the cause of tarantism (uncontrollable bodily movement)
rockrose;small shrubs of scrub and dry woodland regions of southern europe and north africa. grown for their showy flowers and soft often downy and aromatic evergreen foliage
dalmatian;a large breed having a smooth white coat with black or brown spots. originated in dalmatia
oregon myrtle;pacific coast tree having aromatic foliage and small umbellate flowers followed by olivelike fruit. yields a hard tough wood
blastula;early stage of an embryo produced by cleavage of an ovum. a hollow sphere whose wall is composed of a single layer of cells
walking leaf;ferns having lanceolate fronds that root at the tip
vaccaria hispanica;european annual with pale rose-colored flowers. cultivated flower or self-sown grainfield weed. introduced in north america. sometimes classified as a soapwort
evergreen huckleberry;stiff bushy evergreen shrub of western north america having sour black berries and glossy green foliage used in floral arrangements
rock pink;pink-flowered perennial of rocky regions of western united states
yellow squash;any of various squash plants grown for their yellow fruits with somewhat elongated necks
vanessa virginiensis;american butterfly having dark brown wings with white and golden orange spots
mud dauber;wasp that constructs mud cells on a solid base in which females place eggs laid in paralyzed insect larvae
yellow sweet clover;biennial yellow-flowered eurasian plant having aromatic leaves used as carminative or flavoring agent. widely cultivated especially as green manure or cover crop
crow;black birds having a raucous call
jack by the hedge;european herb that smells like garlic
spinning machine;a machine for spinning yarn and thread
castanea chrysophylla;small ornamental evergreen tree of pacific coast whose glossy yellow-green leaves are yellow beneath. bears edible nuts
thimbleweed;a common north american anemone with cylindrical thimblelike fruit clusters
european wildcat;bushy-tailed european wildcat resembling the domestic tabby and regarded as the ancestor of the domestic cat
pekan;large dark brown north american arboreal carnivorous mammal
shiny lyonia;showy evergreen shrub of southeastern united states with shiny leaves and angled branches and umbel-like clusters of pink to reddish flowers
natrix maura;a small harmless grass snake
ilex glabra;evergreen holly of eastern north america with oblong leathery leaves and small black berries
bitter cassava;cassava with long tuberous edible roots and soft brittle stems. used especially to make cassiri (an intoxicating drink) and tapioca
jaboticaba;small evergreen tropical tree native to brazil and west indies but introduced into southern united states. grown in brazil for its edible tough-skinned purple grapelike fruit that grows all along the branches
pussy paws;pink clusters of densely packed flowers on prostrate stems resemble upturned pads of cats' feet. grow in coniferous forests of western north america. sometimes placed in genus calyptridium
muskmelon;any of several varieties of vine whose fruit has a netted rind and edible flesh and a musky smell
sapote;tropical american tree having wood like mahogany and sweet edible egg-shaped fruit. in some classifications placed in the genus calocarpum
tsuga caroliniana;medium-sized evergreen of southeastern united states having spreading branches and widely diverging cone scales
blood fluke;flatworms parasitic in the blood vessels of mammals
live and die;prostrate or semi-erect subshrub of tropical america, and australia. heavily armed with recurved thorns and having sensitive soft gray-green leaflets that fold and droop at night or when touched or cooled
wallflower;any of numerous plants of the genus erysimum having fragrant yellow or orange or brownish flowers
medinilla magnifica;a beautiful tropical evergreen epiphytic shrub grown for its lush foliage and huge panicles of pink flowers. philippines
penstemon newberryi;mat-forming plant with deep pink flowers on short erect leafy stems. rocky places at high elevations from oregon to california
ambrosia trifida;a coarse annual with some leaves deeply and palmately 3-cleft or 5-cleft
christmas bush;australian tree or shrub with red flowers. often used in christmas decoration
crawdaddy;small freshwater decapod crustacean that resembles a lobster
lacebark;small tree or shrub of new zealand having a profusion of axillary clusters of honey-scented paper-white flowers and whose bark is used for cordage
sour dock;european sorrel with large slightly acidic sagittate leaves grown throughout north temperate zone for salad and spring greens
bellis perennis;low-growing eurasian plant with yellow central disc flowers and pinkish-white outer ray flowers
mentzelia laevicaulis;biennial of southwestern united states having lustrous-white stems and toothed leaves grown for its large pale yellow flowers that open in early morning
hand held computer;a computer small enough to be carried in your pocket
kitul tree;fishtail palm of india to malay peninsula. sap yields a brown sugar (jaggery) and trunk pith yields sago
bulletin board system;(computer science) a computer that is running software that allows users to leave messages and access information of general interest
driftfish;small (6 inches) tropical butterfishes found worldwide
weasel;small carnivorous mammal with short legs and elongated body and neck
mistletoe;american plants closely resembling old world mistletoe
araucaria columnaris;very tall evergreen of new caledonia and the new hebrides similar to norfolk island pine
rorqual;any of several baleen whales of of the family balaenopteridae having longitudinal grooves on the throat and a small pointed dorsal fin
afropavo;both sexes are brightly colored
oregano;aromatic eurasian perennial
woolly plant louse;secretes a waxy substance like a mass of fine curly white cotton or woolly threads
pediocactus knowltonii;small clustering cactus of southwestern united states. a threatened species
rock hind;found around rocky coasts or on reefs
copepod;minute marine or fresh-water crustaceans usually having six pairs of limbs on the thorax. some abundant in plankton and others parasitic on fish
american mastodont;north american mastodon. in some classifications considered a mammoth rather than a mastodon
bomarea salsilla;tropical vine having umbels of small purple flowers and edible roots sometimes boiled as a potato substitute. colombia
butter print;tall annual herb or subshrub of tropical asia having velvety leaves and yellow flowers and yielding a strong fiber. naturalized in southeastern europe and united states
prickly pear;cacti having spiny flat joints and oval fruit that is edible in some species. often used as food for stock
neem;large semi-evergreen tree of east india. trunk exudes a tenacious gum. bitter bark used as a tonic. seeds yield an aromatic oil. sometimes placed in genus melia
xylosma congestum;shrub or small tree grown as an ornamental in mild climates for its neat evergreen foliage and fragrant late flowers. native of china
bank swallow;swallow of the northern hemisphere that nests in tunnels dug in clay or sand banks
fairy ring mushroom;mushroom that grows in a fairy ring
panax pseudoginseng;chinese herb with palmately compound leaves and small greenish flowers and forked aromatic roots believed to have medicinal powers
swamp willow;north american shrubby willow having dark bark and linear leaves growing close to streams and lakes
koudou;either of two spiral-horned antelopes of the african bush
currawong;bluish black fruit-eating bird with a bell-like call
oyster mushroom;edible agaric with a soft grayish cap growing in shelving masses on dead wood
dyer s woodruff;creeping european perennial having red or pinkish-white flowers and red roots sometimes used as a substitute for madder in dyeing
pomme blanche;densely hairy perennial of central north america having edible tuberous roots
hulsea nana;similar to but smaller than alpine hulsea
bay scallop;small scallop inhabiting shallow waters and mud flats of the north american atlantic coast
water shrew;any of several small semiaquatic shrews usually living near swift-flowing streams
annona muricata;small tropical american tree bearing large succulent slightly acid fruit
tapirus indicus;a tapir found in malaya and sumatra
salal;small evergreen shrub of pacific coast of north america having edible dark purple grape-size berries
sheep dog;any of various usually long-haird breeds of dog reared to herd and guard sheep
california single leaf pinyon;very small tree similar to rocky_mountain_pinon but having a single needle per fascicle. similar to parry's pinyon in range
streptomyces scabies;cause of a potato disease characterized by brownish corky tissue
malacostracan crustacean;a major subclass of crustaceans
alectoris graeca;of mountainous areas of southern europe
intermediate wheatgrass;asiatic grass introduced into united states rangelands for pasture and fodder
goldilocks aster;early-flowering perennial of southern and southeastern europe with flower heads resembling those of goldenrod
rhamnus purshianus;shrubby tree of united states pacific coast. yields cascara sagrada
french spinach;common eurasian weed. naturalized in united states
mole rat;burrowing scaly-tailed rat of india and ceylon
apodemus sylvaticus;nocturnal yellowish-brown mouse inhabiting woods and fields and gardens
potter bee;solitary bee that builds nests of mud or pebbles cemented together and attached to a plant
foetid bugbane;bugbane of siberia and eastern asia having ill-smelling green-white flowers
samia walkeri;large asiatic moth introduced into the united states. larvae feed on the ailanthus
agave tequilana;mexican plant used especially for making tequila
catalpa bignioides;catalpa tree of southern united states
paraquet;any of numerous small slender long-tailed parrots
angiospermous tree;any tree having seeds and ovules contained in the ovary
ravenna grass;grass often cultivated for its long white-ribbed leaves and large plumes resembling those of pampas grass
aster divaricatus;rhizomatous perennial wood aster of eastern north america with white flowers
tomato fruitworm;larva of a noctuid moth. highly destructive to esp. corn and cotton and tomato crops
hiv;the virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids)
ligustrum ibolium;fast-growing and tightly branched hybrid of ligustrum ovalifolium and ligustrum obtusifolium
prairie wolf;small wolf native to western north america
tanacetum ptarmiciflorum;shrubby perennial of the canary islands having white flowers and leaves and hairy stems covered with dust-like down. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
yam plant;any of a number of tropical vines of the genus dioscorea many having edible tuberous roots
bison;any of several large shaggy-maned humped bovids having large heads and short horns
gleichenia flabellata;large australiasian fern with fanlike repeatedly forked fronds. sometimes placed in genus gleichenia
turdus merula;common black european thrush
swamp sunflower;sunflower of eastern north america having narrow leaves and found in bogs
honey badger;nocturnal badger-like carnivore of wooded regions of africa and southern asia
mount cook lily;showy white-flowered perennial of new zealand
carib wood;small dominican tree bearing masses of large crimson flowers before the fine pinnate foliage emerges
ephedra sinica;chinese ephedra yielding ephedrine
bitter betch;european perennial toxic vetch
foetid pothos;deciduous perennial low-growing fetid swamp plant of eastern north america having minute flowers enclosed in a mottled greenish or purple cowl-shaped spathe
kiwi vine;climbing vine native to china. cultivated in new zealand for its fuzzy edible green-meated fruit
chrysomelid;brightly colored beetle that feeds on plant leaves. larvae infest roots and stems
pigfish;found from long island southward
beaded lizard;lizard with black and yellowish beadlike scales. of western mexico
eryngo;any plant of the genus eryngium
shaggycap;common edible mushroom having an elongated shaggy white cap and black spores
triturus vulgaris;small semiaquatic salamander
arnica;any of various rhizomatous usually perennial plants of the genus arnica
canebrake rattlesnake;southern variety
sheepshead porgy;from florida and bahamas to brazil
concrete mixer;a machine with a large revolving drum in which cement is mixed with other materials to make concrete
gadus macrocephalus;closely related to atlantic cod
turpentine camphor weed;aromatic plant of western united states
lilium lancifolium;east asian perennial having large reddish-orange black-spotted flowers with reflexed petals
euthynnus pelamis;oceanic schooling tuna of considerable value in pacific but less in atlantic. reaches 75 pounds. very similar to if not the same as oceanic bonito
spring vetchling;bushy european perennial having nodding racemose violet-blue flowers
mexican freetail bat;the common freetail bat of southern united states having short velvety fur. migrates south for winter
horned pondweed;found in still or slow-moving fresh or brackish water. useful oxygenator for cool water ponds and aquaria
lactuca serriola;european annual wild lettuce having prickly stems. a troublesome weed in parts of united states
showy sunflower;tall rough-leaved perennial with a few large flower heads. central united states
coral;marine colonial polyp characterized by a calcareous skeleton. masses in a variety of shapes often forming reefs
trigla lucerna;a kind of gurnard
hazardia cana;western american shrubs having white felted foliage and yellow flowers that become red-purple
gossypium arboreum;east indian shrub cultivated especially for ornament for its pale yellow to deep purple blossoms
hot water plant;any plant of the genus achimenes having showy bell-shaped flowers that resemble gloxinias
coral bean tree;deciduous shrub having racemes of deep scarlet-red flowers and black-spotted red seeds
tringa nebularia;large european sandpiper with greenish legs
sceloporus graciosus;a ground dweller that prefers open ground and scattered low bushes. of united states west between rocky and sierra nevada mountains
macrotis lagotis;bandicoot with leathery ears like a rabbit
camwood;small shrubby african tree with hard wood used as a dyewood yielding a red dye
fescue;grass with wide flat leaves cultivated in europe and america for permanent pasture and hay and for lawns
flying reptile;extinct flying reptile of the jurassic and cretaceous having a birdlike beak and membranous wings supported by the very long fourth digit of each forelimb
crested wheat grass;eurasian grass grown in united states great plains area for forage and erosion control
umbrella pine;medium-sized 2-needled pine of southern europe having a spreading crown. widely cultivated for its sweet almond-like seeds
massasauga;small pygmy rattlesnake
telopea oreades;tall shrub of eastern australia having obolanceolate to obovate leaves and red flowes in compact racemes
shumac;a shrub or tree of the genus rhus (usually limited to the non-poisonous members of the genus)
beaver;large semiaquatic rodent with webbed hind feet and a broad flat tail. construct complex dams and underwater lodges
bergall;common in north atlantic coastal waters of the united states
sucking louse;wingless usually flattened blood-sucking insect parasitic on warm-blooded animals
asian wild ox;genus of asiatic wild oxen
fritillaria affinis;herb of northwestern america having green-and-purple bell-shaped flowers
west highland white terrier;small white long-coated terrier developed in scotland
single leaf pine;pinon of southwestern united states having solitary needles and often many stems. important as a nut pine
shittah;source of a wood mentioned frequently in the bible. probably a species of acacia
bracken;fern of southeastern asia. not hardy in cold temperate regions
macaca mulatta;of southern asia. used in medical research
tympanuchus pallidicinctus;a smaller prairie chicken of western texas
cherry crab;asian wild crab apple cultivated in many varieties for it small acid usually red fruit used for preserving
carassius carassius;european carp closely resembling wild goldfish
helmetflower;a poisonous herb native to northern europe having hooded blue-purple flowers. the dried leaves and roots yield aconite
hoary plantain;north american annual or biennial with long soft hairs on the leaves
peachwood;tropical tree with prickly trunk. its heavy red wood yields a red dye and is used for cabinetry
japanese spurge;slow-growing japanese evergreen subshrub having terminal spikes of white flowers. grown as a ground cover
black rat snake;large harmless shiny black north american snake
searcher;large metallic blue-green beetle that preys on caterpillars. north america
lonicera japonica halliana;a variety of japanese honeysuckle that grows like a vine. established as an aggressive escape in southeastern united states
dhole;fierce wild dog of the forests of central and southeast asia that hunts in packs
ballota nigra;ill-smelling european herb with rugose leaves and whorls of dark purple flowers
decoder;a machine that converts a coded text into ordinary language
horse thistle;european annual wild lettuce having prickly stems. a troublesome weed in parts of united states
rana temporaria;a common semiterrestrial european frog
agamid lizard;a lizard of the family agamidae
butterfly orchid;orchid of florida and the bahamas having showy brightly colored flowers. sometimes placed in genus epidendrum
touch me not;mediterranean vine having oblong fruit that when ripe expels its seeds and juice violently when touched
whitefly;minute insect that feeds on plant juices. related to scale insects
pink fritillary;california herb with pinkish purple flowers
billy;male goat
bermuda chub;food and game fish around bermuda and florida. often follow ships
cupressus goveniana abramsiana;rare california cypress taller than but closely related to gowen cypress and sometimes considered the same species
narrow leaved white topped aster;a variety of white-topped aster
doliolum;free-swimming oceanic tunicate with a barrel-shaped transparent body
hunting dog;a dog used in hunting game
muscadet;white grape grown especially in the loire valley in france
peziza coccinea;a scarlet european fungus with cup-shaped ascocarp
epilobium angustifolium;tall north american perennial with creeping rootstocks and narrow leaves and spikes of pinkish-purple flowers occurring in great abundance in burned-over areas or recent clearings. an important honey plant
geogia holly;a holly shrub
echinocactus grusonii;large cactus of east central mexico having golden to pale yellow flowers and spines
notemigonus crysoleucas;shiner of eastern north america having golden glints. sometimes also called 'bream'
musa paradisiaca;a banana tree bearing hanging clusters of edible angular greenish starchy fruits. tropics and subtropics
plumeria alba;tall sparingly branched conical tree having large fragrant yellow flowers with white centers
greater pichiciego;of southern south america
sewing machine;a machine for sewing
quack quack;child's word for a duck
echinococcus;tapeworms whose larvae are parasitic in humans and domestic animals
sorghum;economically important old world tropical cereal grass
meadow grass;any of various grasses that thrive in the presence of abundant moisture
sea urchin;shallow-water echinoderms having soft bodies enclosed in thin spiny globular shells
confederate jasmine;evergreen chinese woody climber with shiny dark green leaves and intensely fragrant white flowers
jew s ears;widely distributed edible fungus shaped like a human ear and growing on decaying wood
apteryx;nocturnal flightless bird of new zealand having a long neck and stout legs. only surviving representative of the order apterygiformes
hypermastigote;flagellate symbiotic in the intestines of e.g. termites
hazelnut tree;any of several shrubs or small trees of the genus corylus bearing edible nuts enclosed in a leafy husk
amphioxus;small translucent lancet-shaped burrowing marine animal. primitive forerunner of the vertebrates
upland white aster;tufted rigid north american perennial with loose clusters of white flowers
artemisia frigida;silky-leaved aromatic perennial of dry northern parts of the northern hemisphere. has tawny florets
bermuda buttercup;south african bulbous wood sorrel with showy yellow flowers
cheviot;hardy hornless sheep of the cheviot hills noted for its wool
ciconia nigra;old world stork that is glossy black above and white below
komodo dragon;the largest lizard in the world (10 feet). found on indonesian islands
homo sapiens;the only surviving hominid. species to which modern man belongs. bipedal primate having language and ability to make and use complex tools. brain 1400 cc
kissing bug;large bloodsucking bug
leopard;large feline of african and asian forests usually having a tawny coat with black spots
box tortoise;chiefly terrestrial turtle of north america. shell can be closed tightly
tangerine;a variety of mandarin orange
alpine gold;low tufted plant having hairy stems each topped by a flower head with short narrow yellow rays. northwestern united states
zaman;large ornamental tropical american tree withbipinnate leaves and globose clusters of flowers with crimson stamens and sweet-pulp seed pods eaten by cattle
rhus verniciflua;small asiatic tree yielding a toxic exudate from which lacquer is obtained
petasites sagitattus;american sweet-scented herb
florist s chrysanthemum;of china
cantaloupe vine;a variety of muskmelon vine having fruit with a tan rind and orange flesh
african scented mahogany;african tree having rather lightweight cedar-scented wood varying in color from pink to reddish brown
lonicera sempervirens;evergreen north american honeysuckle vine having coral-red or orange flowers
scale moss;mosslike liverwort with tiny scalelike leaves. usually epiphytic
snap pea;variety of pea plant producing peas having crisp rounded edible pods
spearfish;any of several large vigorous pelagic fishes resembling sailfishes but with first dorsal fin much reduced. worldwide but rare
nuphar lutea;a water lily with yellow flowers
bush honeysuckle;spreading bush of northeastern united states having small clusters of fragrant green-yellow flowers
fire on the mountain;poinsettia of united states and eastern mexico. often confused with euphoria heterophylla
pronghorn antelope;fleet antelope-like ruminant of western north american plains with small branched horns
habenaria leucophaea;orchid of boggy or wet lands of north central united states having racemes of very fragrant creamy or greenish white flowers
fescue grass;grass with wide flat leaves cultivated in europe and america for permanent pasture and hay and for lawns
rockcress;any of several rock-loving cresses of the genus arabis
hermit crab;small soft-bodied marine crustaceans living in cast-off shells of gastropods
oswego tea;perennial aromatic herb of eastern north america having variously colored tubular flowers in dense showy heads
darwin tulip;any of several very tall, late-blooming tulips bearing large squarish flowers on sturdy stems
shell parakeet;small australian parakeet usually light green with black and yellow markings in the wild but bred in many colors
phalaris arundinacea;perennial grass of marshy meadows and ditches having broad leaves. europe and north america
raja erinacea;most plentiful skate in north american inshore waters in summer. to 2l inches
staghorn moss;a variety of clubmoss
beach morning glory;prostrate perennial of coastal sand dunes florida to texas
peziza domicilina;a discomycetous fungus of the genus peziza. the fragile fruiting body is a ghostly white but stains yellow when broken. favors strongly alkaline habitats
stayer;a person or other animal having powers of endurance or perseverence: 'the horse that won the race is a good stayer'
ichthyosaurus;ichthyosaurs of the jurassic
warragal;wolflike yellowish-brown wild dog of australia
columbo;any of various tall perennial herbs constituting the genus frasera. widely distributed in warm dry upland areas of the united states pacific states
blue toadflax;north american plant having racemes of blue-violet flowers
leptotyphlops humilis;burrows among roots of shrubs and beneath rocks in desert and rocky hillside areas and beach sand of western united states
slate colored junco;common north american junco having gray plumage and eyes with dark brown irises
dwarf golden chinkapin;evergreen shrub similar to golden chinkapin. mountains of california
pernambuco wood;tropical tree with prickly trunk. its heavy red wood yields a red dye and is used for cabinetry
fisher cat;large dark brown north american arboreal carnivorous mammal
lathyrus splendens;shrubby california perennial having large pink or violet flowers. cultivated as an ornamental
arabis turrita;european cress having stiff erect stems. sometimes placed in genus turritis
dracunculus medinensis;parasitic roundworm of india and africa that lives beneath the skin of man and other vertebrates
thick billed murre;a variety of murre
poa nemoralis;slender european grass of shady places. grown also in northeastern america and temperate asia
alligator mississipiensis;large alligator of southeastern united states
cassia fasciculata;tropical american plant having leaflets somewhat sensitive to the touch. sometimes placed in genus cassia
hare s foot fern;either of two ferns of the genus davallia having a soft gray hairy rootstock
equisetum arvense;of eurasia and greenland and north america
poppy;annual or biennial or perennial herbs having showy flowers
clay colored robin;robin of mexico and central america
fauna;a living organism characterized by voluntary movement
chinese black mushroom;edible east asian mushroom having a golden or dark brown to blackish cap and an inedible stipe
love grass;any of various grasses of the genus_eragrostis. useful especially for forage and prevention of erosion
slot machine;a machine that is operated by the insertion of a coin in a slot
pewit;large crested old world plover having wattles and spurs
nymphaea lotus;white egyptian lotus: water lily of egypt to southeastern africa. held sacred by the egyptians
weakfish;food and game fish of north american coastal waters with a mouth from which hooks easily tear out
horned asp;highly venomous viper of north africa and southwest asia having a horny spine above each eye
peronospora hyoscyami;fungus causing a downy mildew on growing tobacco
trigonella foenumgraecum;annual herb or southern europe and eastern asia having off-white flowers and aromatic seeds used medicinally and in curry
bastard lignum vitae;small evergreen tree of the southern united states and west indies a source of lignum vitae wood
platalea leucorodia;pure white crested spoonbill of southern eurasia and northeastern africa
chinese parsley;old world herb with aromatic parsleylike leaves and seed
southern flying squirrel;small large-eyed nocturnal flying squirrel of eastern united states
galangal;southeastern asian perennial with aromatic roots
deadly nightshade;poisonous perennial old world vine having violet flowers and oval coral-red berries. widespread weed in north america
mushroom;any of various fleshy fungi of the subdivision basidiomycota consisting of a cap at the end of a stem arising from an underground mycelium
indian beet;stout perennial of eastern and central north america having palmate leaves and showy racemose blue flowers
tomistoma schlegeli;crocodile of southeast asia similar to but smaller than the gavial
spotted coral root;common coral root having yellowish- or reddish- or purplish-brown leafless stems bearing loose racemes of similarly colored flowers with white purple-spotted lips. guatemala to canada
longleaf pine;large 3-needled pine of southeastern united states having very long needles and gnarled twisted limbs. bark is red-brown deeply ridgedged. an important timber tree
caesalpinia pulcherrima;tropical shrub or small tree having showy yellow to orange-red flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
golden hamster;small light-colored hamster often kept as a pet
rattus norvegicus;common domestic rat. serious pest worldwide
tanacetum balsamita;tansy-scented eurasian perennial herb with buttonlike yellow flowers. used as potherb or salad green and sometimes for potpourri or tea or flavoring. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
american hazel;nut-bearing shrub of eastern north america
ciderpress;a press that is used to extract the juice from apples
harvest fly;its distinctive song is heard during july and august
sylvilagus palustris;of marshy coastal areas from north carolina to florida
foetus;an unborn or unhatched vertebrate in the later stages of development showing the main recognizable features of the mature animal
white wood aster;rhizomatous perennial wood aster of eastern north america with white flowers
banded rudderfish;fish having the habit of following ships. found in north and south american coastal waters
horned whiff;from bahamas and northern gulf of mexico to brazil
haemulon malanurum;of warm atlantic waters
corvus brachyrhyncos;common crow of n. america
cornel;a tree of shrub of the genus cornus often having showy flower-like bracts
grugru;tropical american feather palm having a swollen spiny trunk and edible nuts
alnus maritima;shrub or small tree of southeastern united states having soft light brown wood
sumac;a shrub or tree of the genus rhus (usually limited to the non-poisonous members of the genus)
lima bean;bush or tall-growing bean plant having large flat edible seeds
acer pennsylvanicum;maple of eastern north america with striped bard and large 2-lobed leaves clear yellow in autumn
theobroma cacao;tropical american tree producing cacao beans
calophyllum inophyllum;east indian tree having racemes of fragrant white flowers. coastal areas southern india to malaysia
caprimulgus vociferus;american nocturnal goatsucker with gray-and-white plumage
eragrostis tef;an african grass economically important as a cereal grass (yielding white flower of good quality) as well as for forage and hay
salix alba caerulea;eurasian willow tree having grayish leaves and ascending branches
souari tree;large south american evergreen tree trifoliate leaves and drupes with nutlike seeds used as food and a source of cooking oil
kolkwitzia amabilis;chinese deciduous shrub with yellow-throated pinkish flowers and bristly fruit. often cultivated as an ornamental
tiger beetle;active usually bright-colored beetle that preys on other insects
bean weevil;larvae live in and feed on growing or stored beans
camash;any of several plants of the genus camassia. north and south america
glaucium flavum;yellow-flowered eurasian glaucous herb naturalized in along sandy shores in eastern north america
lutra canadensis;sociable aquatic animal widely distributed along streams and lake borders in north america
canoe cedar;large valuable arborvitae of northwestern united states
esox masquinongy;large (60 to 80 pounds) sport fish of north america
poinciana;a tropical flowering shrub having bright orange or red flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
true puffball;any of various fungi of the family lycoperdaceae whose round fruiting body discharges a cloud of spores when mature
winter purslane;succulent herb sometimes grown as a salad or pot herb. grows on dunes and waste ground of pacific coast of north america
sea cole;perennial of coastal sands and shingles of northern europe and baltic and black seas having racemes of small white flowers and large fleshy blue-green leaves often used as potherbs
eucalyptus regnans;tree having wood similar to the alpine ash. tallest tree in australia and tallest hardwood in the world
queen;the only fertile female in a colony of social insects such as bees and ants and termites. its function is to lay eggs
honey guide;small bird of tropical africa and asia. feeds on beeswax and honey and larvae
stellar s sea eagle;found on coasts of western north pacific
diervilla lonicera;spreading bush of northeastern united states having small clusters of fragrant green-yellow flowers
levant cotton;old world annual having heart-shaped leaves and large seeds with short grayish lint removed with difficulty. considered an ancestor of modern short-staple cottons
planer;a power tool for smoothing or shaping wood
slender salamander;any of several small slim salamanders of the united states pacific coast
leptopteris superba;new zealand with pinnate fronds and a densely woolly stalks. sometimes included in genus todea
mirabilis laevis;california four_o'clock with purple-red flowers
zizania aquatica;perennial aquatic grass of north america bearing grain used for food
tibetan mastiff;very large powerful rough-coated dog native to central asia
potto;arboreal fruit-eating mammal of tropical america with a long prehensile tail
tolu tree;medium-sized tropical american tree yielding tolu balsam and a fragrant hard wood used for high-grade furniture and cabinetwork
malus ioensis;wild crab apple of western united states with fragrant pink flowers
zamang;large ornamental tropical american tree withbipinnate leaves and globose clusters of flowers with crimson stamens and sweet-pulp seed pods eaten by cattle
chondrichthian;fishes in which the skeleton may be calcified but not ossified
christmas rose;european evergreen plant with white or purplish roselike winter-blooming flowers
poison hemlock;large branching biennial herb native to eurasia and africa and adventive in north america having large fernlike leaves and white flowers. usually found in damp habitats. all parts extremely poisonous
honesty;southeastern european plant cultivated for its fragrant purplish flowers and round flat papery silver-white seedpods that are used for indoor decoration
brill;european food fish
asphodel;any of various chiefly mediterranean plants of the genera asphodeline and asphodelus having linear leaves and racemes of white or pink or yellow flowers
pontederia cordata;american plant having spikes of blue flowers and growing in shallow water of streams and ponds
strawberry pigweed;european annual with clusters of greenish flowers followed by red pulpy berrylike fruit. naturalized north america
eared grebe;small grebe with yellow ear tufts and a black neck. found in eurasia and southern africa as well as western united states
wolfbane;poisonous eurasian perennial herb with broad rounded leaves and yellow flowers and fibrous rootstock
sheep sorrel;small plant having pleasantly acid-tasting arrow-shaped leaves. common in dry places
cirsium rivulare;of central and southwestern europe
menticirrhus undulatus;bluish-gray whiting of california coast
common canary;native to the canary islands and azores. popular usually yellow cage bird noted for its song
blue peafowl;peafowl of india and ceylon
brant goose;small dark geese that breed in the north and migrate southward
scabiosa atropurpurea;old world annual having fragrant purple to deep crimson flower heads. naturalized in united states
camassia quamash;plant having a large edible bulb and linear basal leaves and racemes of light to deep violet-blue star-shaped flowers on tall green scapes. western north america
vaccinium caespitosum;low-growing tufted deciduous shrub of northern and alpine north america having pink to coral-red flowers followed by sweet blue berries
bloodsucker;carnivorous or bloodsucking aquatic or terrestrial worms typically having a sucker at each end
rock python;very large python of tropical and southern africa
limpkin;wading bird of florida, cuba and jamaica having a drooping bill and a distinctive wailing call
tube nosed bat;any of various fruit bats of the genus nyctimene distinguished by nostrils drawn out into diverging tubes
china fleece vine;twining perennial vine having racemes of fragrant greenish flowers. western china to russia
platanus occidentalis;very large spreading plane tree of eastern and central north america to mexico
stormy petrel;sooty black petrel with white markings. of the north atlantic and mediterranean
felis concolor;large american feline resembling a lion
tent caterpillar;the larvae of moths that build communal silken webs in orchard and shade trees
wild oat grass;common in meadows and pastures
merganser;large crested fish-eating diving duck having a slender hooked bill with serrated edges
army ant;tropical nomadic ant that preys mainly on other insects
painted leaf;poinsettia of united states and eastern mexico. often confused with euphoria heterophylla
bear s breeches;widely cultivated southern european acanthus with whitish purple-veined flowers
bristle grass;grasses of grasslands and woodlands having large gracefully arching spikes with long bristles beneath each spikelet
mexican tulip poppy;native of mexican highlands grown for its glossy clear yellow flowers and blue-gray finely dissected foliage
carinate;birds having keeled breastbones for attachment of flight muscles
cive;perennial having hollow cylindrical leaves used for seasoning
mexican tea;rank-smelling tropical american pigweed
krait;brightly colored venomous but nonaggressive snake of southeastern asia and malay peninsula
tropicbird;mostly white web-footed tropical seabird often found far from land
climbing corydalis;annual vine with decompound leaves and racemes of yellow and pink flowers
gloxinia perennis;herb of colombia to peru having pale purple flowers
mother of thyme;fragrant european mint having clusters of small violet-and-white flowers. naturalized especially in eastern north america
rhesus;of southern asia. used in medical research
guinea pig;stout-bodied nearly tailless domesticated cavy. often kept as a pet and widely used in research
carambola tree;east indian tree bearing deeply ridged yellow-brown fruit
menziesia pilosa;low shrub of the eastern united states with downy twigs
african hemp;large shrub of south africa having many conspicuously hairy branches with large hairy leaves and clusters of conspicuous white flowers
jawless vertebrate;eel-shaped vertebrate without jaws or paired appendages including the cyclostomes and some extinct forms
perca fluviatilis;a perch native to europe
christmas tree;a terrestrial evergreen shrub or small tree of western australia having brilliant yellow-orange flowers. parasitic on roots of grasses
gayfeather;any of various north american plants of the genus liatris having racemes or panicles of small discoid flower heads
lepidothamnus laxifolius;low-growning to prostrate shrub with slender trailing branches. new zealand
indigo bunting;small deep blue north american bunting
carolina wren;large united states wren with a musical call
crocus;any of numerous low-growing plants of the genus crocus having slender grasslike leaves and white or yellow or purple flowers. native chiefly to the mediterranean region but widely cultivated
rattail;deep-sea fish with a large head and body and long tapering tail
cedrela odorata;tropical american tree yielding fragrant wood used especially for boxes
erica perspicua;south african shrub grown for its profusion of white flowers
archosaurian;extinct reptiles including: dinosaurs. plesiosaurs. pterosaurs. ichthyosaurs. thecodonts
trichosurus vulpecula;bushy-tailed phalanger
polo pony;a small agile horse specially bred and trained for playing polo
bugbane;north american plant having large leaves and yellowish green flowers growing in racemes. yields a toxic alkaloid used medicinally
capparis flexuosa;shrub or small tree of southern florida to central and south america
laurel oak;large nearly semi-evergreen oak of southeastern united states. thrives in damp soil
sandfish;fish of sandy areas of western pacific and indian oceans having an angular snout for burrowing into sand
pig;domestic swine
alpine lady fern;a lady fern with deeply cut leaf segments. found in the rocky mountains
polystichum lonchitis;evergreen european fern widely cultivated
new world coral snake;any of several venomous new world snakes brilliantly banded in red and black and either yellow or white. widely distributed in south and central america
miner s cat;raccoon-like omnivorous mammal of mexico and the southwestern united states having a long bushy tail with black and white rings
mangosteen tree;east indian tree with thick leathery leaves and edible fruit
wisteria chinensis;having deep purple flowers
brassica oleracea;wild original of cultivated cabbages. common in western coastal europe
amygdalus communis amara;almond trees having white blossoms and poisonous nuts yielding an oil used for flavoring and for medicinal purposes
hs1;a herpes virus that causes oral herpes
tolmiea menziesii;vigorous perennial herb with flowers in erect racemes and having young plants develop at the junction of a leaf blade and the leafstalk
seed beetle;infests the seeds of legumes
dendroica striate;north american warbler having a black-and-white head
convolvulus sepium;common eurasian and american wild climber with pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus convolvulus
cephalanthera rubra;orchid of mediterranean and asia having a lax spike of bright rose-pink flowers
litchi;chinese tree cultivated especially in philippines and india for its edible fruit. sometimes placed in genus nephelium
verpa;a morel whose fertile portion resembles a bell and is attached to the stipe only at the top
winter wren;small wren of coniferous forests of northern hemisphere
crabgrass;grasses with creeping stems that root freely. a pest in lawns
cowslip;early spring flower common in british isles having fragrant yellow or sometimes purple flowers
calophyllum longifolium;valuable timber tree of panama
finback;large flat-headed whalebone whale having deep furrows along the throat. of atlantic and pacific
eastern hop hornbeam;medium-sized hop hornbeam of eastern north america
bastard pennyroyal;aromatic plant of the eastern united states
alga;primitive chlorophyll-containing mainly aquatic eukaryotic organisms lacking true stems and roots and leaves
trombidiid;mite that in all stages feeds on other arthropods
prey;animal hunted or caught for food
persian lilac;tree of northern india and china having purple blossoms and small inedible yellow fruits. naturalized in the southern united states as a shade tree
redback vole;any of several voles of mountainous regions of eurasia and america
platichthys flesus;important food fish of europe
alternanthera philoxeroides;prolific south american aquatic weed having grasslike leaves and short spikes of white flowers. clogs waterways with dense floating masses
sensitive plant;prostrate or semi-erect subshrub of tropical america, and australia. heavily armed with recurved thorns and having sensitive soft gray-green leaflets that fold and droop at night or when touched or cooled
hippotragus niger;large black east african antelope with sharp back-curving horns
leptospira;important pathogens causing weil's disease or canicola fever
ceylon cinnamon tree;tropical asian tree with aromatic yellowish-brown bark. source of the spice cinnamon
california fuchsia;shrublet of southwestern united states to mexico having brilliant scarlet flowers. sometimes placed in genus zauschneria
american hornbeam;tree or large shrub with gray bark and blue-green leaves that turn red-orange in autumn
agave;tropical american plants with basal rosettes of fibrous sword-shaped leaves and flowers in tall spikes. some cultivated for ornament or for fiber
indigo snake;large dark-blue nonvenomous snake that invades burrows. found in southern north america and mexico
stonechat;common european chat with black plumage and a reddish-brown breast
golden saxifrage;any of various low aquatic herbs of the genus chrysosplenium
american widgeon;american widgeon the male of which has a white crown
garlic;bulbous herb of southern europe widely naturalized. bulb breaks up into separate strong-flavored cloves
peregrine;a widely distributed falcon formerly used in falconry
astilbe;any plant of the genus astilbe having compound leaves and showy panicles of tiny colorful flowers
warhorse;horse used in war
jimson weed;intensely poisonous tall coarse annual tropical weed having rank-smelling foliage, large white or violet trumpet-shaped flowers and prickly fruits
fundulus heteroclitus;silver-and-black killifish of saltwater marshes along the united states atlantic coast
anas rubripes;dusky black duck of northeastern united states and canada
watchdog;a dog trained to guard property
ajuga chamaepitys;low-growing annual with yellow flowers dotted red. faintly aromatic of pine resin. europe, british isles and north africa
ursus arctos horribilis;powerful brownish-yellow bear of the uplands of western north america
morgan;an american breed of small compact saddle horses
sphyrna tiburo;small harmless hammerhead having a spade-shaped head. abundant in bays and estuaries
mountain clematis;climber of northeastern north america having waxy purplish-blue flowers
chrysolophus pictus;brightly colored crested pheasant of mountains of western and central asia
zoomastigote;flagellate protozoan lacking photosynthesis and other plant-like characteristics
pica pica;a stinging herb of tropical america
golden beard penstemon;plant of southwestern united states having long open clusters of scarlet flowers with yellow hairs on lower lip
spreading bellflower;european perennial bellflower that grows in clumps with spreading stems and blue or white flowers
shame plant;prostrate or semi-erect subshrub of tropical america, and australia. heavily armed with recurved thorns and having sensitive soft gray-green leaflets that fold and droop at night or when touched or cooled
caprimulgus carolinensis;large whippoorwill-like bird of the southern united states
coniogramme japonica;fast-growing sturdy japanese fern. cultivated for their attractive broad dark-green pinnate fronds
jument;an animal such as a donkey or ox or elephant used for transporting loads or doing other heavy work
teg;two-year-old sheep
indian pink;tropical american annual climber having red (sometimes white) flowers and finely dissected leaves. naturalized in united states and elsewhere
marumi kumquat;shrub bearing round-fruited kumquats
cembra nut tree;large 5-needled european pine. yields cembra nuts and a resinous exudate
meadow spittlebug;north american insect that severely damages grasses
ivory billed woodpecker;large black-and-white woodpecker of southern united states and cuba having an ivory bill. nearly extinct
bidens trichosperma;north american bur marigold with large flowers
saiga;goat-like antelope of central eurasia having a stubby nose like a proboscis
spiceberry;shrub with coral-red berries. japan to northern india
long beech fern;beech fern of north america and eurasia
chinook salmon;large pacific salmon valued as food. adults die after spawning
barilla;algerian plant formerly burned to obtain calcium carbonate
nuphar advena;common water lily of eastern and central north america, having broad leaves and globe-shaped yellow flowers. in sluggish fresh or slightly brackish water
mamo;black honeycreepers with yellow feathers around the tail. now extinct
wolf;any of various predatory carnivorous canine mammals of north america and eurasia that usually hunt in packs
segmented worm;worms with cylindrical bodies segmented both internally and externally
cypripedium californicum;often having many yellow-green orchids with white pouches growing along streams and seeps of southwestern oregon and northern california
malaria mosquito;transmits the malaria parasite
xestobium rufovillosum;bores through wood making a ticking sound popularly thought to presage death
iguanodon;massive herbivorous bipedal dinosaur with a long heavy tail. common in europe and north africa. early cretaceous
royal agaric;widely distributed edible mushroom resembling the fly agaric
polemonium boreale;perennial erect herb with white flowers. circumboreal
vanda coerulea;famous orchid of northern india having large pale to deep lilac-blue flowers
common dolphin;black-and-white dolphin that leaps high out of the water. one of the dolphins displayed at the marinelands of california and florida
leucothoe editorum;fast-growing evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having arching interlaced branches and racemes of white flowers
gomuti;malaysian feather palm with base densely clothed with fibers. yields a sweet sap used in wine and trunk pith yields sago
grand fir;lofty fir of the pacific coast of northwestern america having long curving branches and deep green leaves
alternator;an old term for an electric generator that produces alternating current (especially in automobiles)
american mistletoe;small herb with scalelike leaves on reddish-brown stems and berrylike fruits. parasitic on spruce and larch trees
trout lily;eastern north american dogtooth having solitary yellow flowers marked with brown or purple and spotted interiors
betula fontinalis;birch of western united states resembling the paper birch but having brownish bark
bamboo;woody tropical grass having hollow woody stems. mature canes used for construction and furniture
eimeria;parasitic on the digestive epithelium of vertebrates and higher invertebrates
dendroica petechia;yellow-throated american wood warbler
giant tortoise;very large tortoises of the galapagos and seychelles islands
hemp agrimony;coarse european herb with palmately-divided leaves and clusters of small reddish-purple flower heads
poodle;an intelligent dog with a heavy curly solid-colored coat that is usually clipped. an old breed sometimes trained as sporting dogs or as performing dogs
coreid bug;a true bug
green peafowl;peafowl of southeast asia
western black legged tick;feeds on dusky-footed woodrat and bites humans. principal vector for lyme disease in western united states especially northern california
monocarpous plant;a plant that bears fruit once and dies
california laurel;pacific coast tree having aromatic foliage and small umbellate flowers followed by olivelike fruit. yields a hard tough wood
broom snakeroot;low-growing sticky subshrub of southwestern united states having narrow linear leaves on many slender branches and hundreds of tiny yellow flower heads
salvia azurea;blue-flowered sage of dry prairies of the eastern united states
sorbus sitchensis;an ash of the western coast of north america
dromaius novaehollandiae;large australian flightless bird similar to the ostrich but smaller
scotch laburnum;an ornamental shrub or tree of the genus laburnum
old world robin;small old world songbird with a reddish breast
northern snow bedstraw;north american stoloniferous perennial having white flowers. sometimes used as an ornamental
love in a mist;european garden plant having finely cut leaves and white or pale blue flowers
prunus sieboldii;ornamental tree with inedible fruit widely cultivated in many varieties for its pink blossoms
sylvia curruca;old world warbler similar to the greater whitethroat but smaller
handsaw fish;a soft-finned fish of the genus alepisaurus
water locust;honey locust of swamps and bottomlands of southern united states having short oval pods. yields dark heavy wood
goose grass;annual having the stem beset with curved prickles. north america and europe and asia
hogfish;found from long island southward
dutchman s pipe;hardy deciduous vine having large leaves and flowers with the calyx tube curved like the bowl of a pipe
ichyostega;early tetrapod amphibian found in greenland
goose plum;wild plum trees of eastern and central north america having red-orange fruit with yellow flesh
mantis prawn;a kind of mantis shrimp
courgette;marrow squash plant whose fruit are eaten when small
pecten magellanicus;large scallop inhabiting deep waters of the north american atlantic coast
lonicera japonica;an asiatic trailing evergreen honeysuckle with half-evergreen leaves and fragrant white flowers turning yellow with age. has become a weed in some areas
arenaria melanocephala;common turnstone of north american pacific coast
taraxacum ruderalia;eurasian plant widely naturalized as a weed in north america. used as salad greens and to make wine
alocasia;any plant of the genus alocasia having large showy basal leaves and boat-shaped spathe and reddish berries
badger skunk;large naked-muzzled skunk with white back and tail. of southwestern north america and mexico
buchloe dactyloides;short grass growing on dry plains of central united states (where buffalo roam)
velvet bent;common grass with slender stems and narrow leaves
white yam;grown in australasia and polynesia for its large root with fine edible white flesh
fern palm;southeastern indian cycad with palmlike foliage
heather bell;common low european shrub with purple-red flowers
lesser duckweed;of temperate regions except eastern asia and australia
water birch;birch of western united states resembling the paper birch but having brownish bark
false truffle;any of various fungi of the family rhizopogonaceae having subterranean fruiting bodies similar to the truffle
freetail;small swift bat with leathery ears and a long tail. common in warm regions
giant potato creeper;vine of costa rica sparsely armed with hooklike spines and having large lilac-blue flowers
scaly lentinus;a fungus with a scaly cap and white flesh and a ring on the stalk (with scales below the ring). odor reminiscent of licorice
chlamydia;coccoid rickettsia infesting birds and mammals. cause infections of eyes and lungs and genitourinary tract
dog laurel;fast-growing evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having arching interlaced branches and racemes of white flowers
mummichog;silver-and-black killifish of saltwater marshes along the united states atlantic coast
ripple grass;an old world plantain with long narrow ribbed leaves widely established in temperate regions
marsh plant;a semi-aquatic plant that grows in soft wet land. most are monocots: sedge, sphagnum, grasses, cattails, etc. possibly heath
steer;castrated bull
two winged insects;insects having usually a single pair of functional wings (anterior pair) with the posterior pair reduced to small knobbed structures and mouth parts adapted for sucking or lapping or piercing
clingfish;very small (to 3 inches) flattened marine fish with a sucking disc on the abdomen for clinging to rocks etc.
yellow clintonia;common woodland herb of temperate north america having yellow nodding flowers and small round blue fruits
nonstarter;a horse that fails to run in a race for which it has been entered
hordeum pusillum;annual barley native to western north america and widespread in southern united states and tropical america
wineberry;graceful deciduous shrub or small tree having attractive foliage and small red berries that turn black at maturity and are used for making wine
ulmus glabra;eurasian elm often planted as a shade tree
telingo potato;putrid-smelling aroid of southeastern asia (especially the philippines) grown for its edible tuber
ardisia paniculata;tropical american shrub or small tree with brown wood and dark berries
holly leaved oak;evergreen oak of southern europe having leaves somewhat resembling those of holly. yields a hard wood
xiphias gladius;large toothless marine food fish with a long swordlike upper jaw. not completely cold-blooded i.e. they are able to warm their brains and eyes: worldwide in warm waters but feed on cold ocean floor coming to surface at night
black footed ferret;ferret of prairie regions of united states. nearly extinct
popcorn;corn having small ears and kernels that burst when exposed to dry heat
manihot dulcis;south american plant with roots used as a vegetable and herbage used for stock feed
teredinid;wormlike marine bivalve that bores into wooden piers and ships by means of drill-like shells
sweet vetch;perennial of western united states having racemes of pink to purple flowers followed by flat pods that separate into nearly orbicular joints
aralia racemosa;unarmed woody rhizomatous perennial plant distinguished from wild sarsaparilla by more aromatic roots and panicled umbels. southeastern north america to mexico
prunus serrulata;ornamental tree with inedible fruits widely cultivated in many varieties for its white blossoms
laughing owl;almost extinct owl of new zealand
cassiope mertensiana;heath of mountains of western united states having bell-shaped white flowers
hegari;sudanese sorghums having white seeds. one variety grown in southwestern united states
shellbark;north american hickory having loose gray shaggy bark and edible nuts
chaenomeles speciosa;deciduous thorny shrub native to china having red or white blossoms
fragile fern;delicate fern widely distributed in north america and european having thin pinnatifid fronds with brittle stems
candlenut;large tree native to southeastern asia. the nuts yield oil used in varnishes. nut kernels strung together are used locally as candles
maclura pomifera;small shrubby deciduous yellowwood tree of south central united states having spines, glossy dark green leaves and inedible orangelike fruit. its hard orange-colored wood used for bows by native americans. frequently planted as boundary hedge
shoebill;large stork-like bird of the valley of the white nile with a broad bill suggesting a wooden shoe
nephelium longana;tree of southeastern asia to australia grown primarily for its sweet translucent-fleshed edible fruit resembling litchi nuts. sometimes placed in genera euphoria or nephelium
rooter skunk;large naked-muzzled skunk with white back and tail. of southwestern north america and mexico
hygrophorus marzuolus;a gray fungus frequently found near melting snow banks
necklace tree;a tree of the genus ormosia having seeds used as beads
swamp blackberry;of eastern north america
potato bug;black-and-yellow beetle that feeds in adult and larval stages on potato leaves. originally of eastern rocky mountains. now worldwide
thunnus albacares;may reach 400 pounds. worldwide in tropics
monocotyledon;a monocotyledonous flowering plant
scissortailed flycatcher;gray flycatcher of the southwestern united states and mexico and central america having a long forked tail and white breast and salmon and scarlet markings
new world goldfinch;american finch whose male has yellow body plumage in summer
right whale;large arctic whalebone whale. allegedly the 'right' whale to hunt because of its valuable whalebone and oil
chinese scholartree;handsome round-headed deciduous tree having compound dark green leaves and profuse panicles of fragrant creamy-white flowers. china and japan
firebird;eastern subspecies of northern oriole
black mulberry;european mulberry having dark foliage and fruit
trotter;a horse trained to trot esp. one trained for harness racing
castor canadensis;a variety of beaver found in almost all areas of north america except florida
triticum aestivum;widely cultivated in temperate regions in many varieties for its commercially important grain
ice plant;old world annual widely naturalized in warm regions having white flowers and fleshy foliage covered with icelike hairs
skeleton shrimp;small amphipod crustacean having a grotesque form suggestive of the praying mantis. found chiefly on seaweed
false sago;southeastern indian cycad with palmlike foliage
southern red oak;large round-topped deciduous tree with spreading branches having narrow falcate leaves with deeply sinuate lobes and wood similar to that of northern red oaks. new jersey to illinois and southward
crow garlic;pungent old world wild onion
calabash tree;tropical american evergreen that produces large round gourds
marasca;dalmatian bitter wild cherry tree bearing fruit whose juice is made into maraschino liqueur
mosquito hawk;slender-bodied non-stinging insect having iridescent wings that are outspread at rest. adults and nymphs feed on mosquitoes etc.
prunus serotina;large north american wild cherry with round black sour edible fruit
triticum spelta;hardy wheat grown mostly in europe for livestock feed
california false morel;a gyromitra with a brown puffed up fertile part and a thick fluted stalk. found under conifers in california
yellow jack;fish of western atlantic and gulf of mexico
veronica serpyllifolia;perennial decumbent herb having small opposite leaves and racemes of blue flowers. throughout eurasia and the new world
gall wasp;small solitary wasp that produces galls on oaks and other plants
ray;cartilaginous fishes having horizontally flattened bodies and enlarged winglike pectoral fins with gills on the underside. most swim by moving the pectoral fins
juncus effusus;tall rush with soft erect or arching stems found in eurasia, australia, new zealand, and common in north america
prince of wales feather;new zealand with pinnate fronds and a densely woolly stalks. sometimes included in genus todea
xyris operculata;of australia
xylaria mali;fungus causing black root rot in apples
swamp hare;of southeastern united states swamps and lowlands
sickle alfalfa;european medic naturalized in north america having yellow flowers and sickle-shaped pods
holm tree;evergreen oak of southern europe having leaves somewhat resembling those of holly. yields a hard wood
heliopsis;any north american shrubby perennial herb of the genus heliopsis having large yellow daisylike flowers
digitaria sanguinalis;a european forage grass grown for hay. a naturalized weed in united states
crow s foot;large tree of australasia
sand launce;very small silvery eellike schooling fishes that burrow into sandy beaches
mammee;tropical american tree having wood like mahogany and sweet edible egg-shaped fruit. in some classifications placed in the genus calocarpum
ion engine;a type of reaction-propulsion engine to propel rockets in space. a stream of positive ions is accelerated to a high velocity by an electric field
silverback;an adult male gorilla with gray hairs across the back
pluteus magnus;an edible agaric found in piles of hardwood sawdust. the caps are black and coarsely wrinkled
acer circinatum;small maple of northwestern north america having prostrate stems that root freely and form dense thickets
chaulmoogra;east indian tree with oily seeds yield chaulmoogra oil used to treat leprosy
myroxylon balsamum pereirae;tree of south and central america yielding an aromatic balsam
poroporo;australian annual sometimes cultivated for its racemes of purple flowers and edible yellow egg-shaped fruit
false rue anemone;slender erect perennial of eastern north america having tuberous roots and pink-tinged white flowers. resembles meadow rue
biting louse;wingless insect with mouth parts adapted for biting. mostly parasitic on birds
tidytips;california annual having flower heads with yellow rays tipped with white
nicotiana rustica;tobacco plant of south america and mexico
variegated scouring rush;northern north america. greenland. northern and central europe
toyon;ornamental evergreen treelike shrub of united states pacific coast having large white flowers and red berrylike fruits. often placed in genus photinia
salmonberry;large erect red-flowered raspberry of western north america having large salmon-colored berries
convolvulus;any of numerous plants of the genus convolvulus
myxobacterium;bacteria that form colonies in self-produced slime. inhabit moist soils or decaying plant matter or animal waste
buckeye;tree having palmate leaves and large clusters of white to red flowers followed by brown shiny inedible seeds
blue jack;small salmon of north pacific coasts and the great lakes
cistothorus palustris;american wren that inhabits tall reed beds
kit fox;small gray fox of southwestern united states. may be a subspecies of vulpes velox
bahia coquilla;brazilian palm yielding fibers used in making ropes, mats, and brushes
saxe gothea conspicua;small yew having attractive foliage and partially weeping branches cultivated as an ornamental. mountains of southern chile
evergreen;a plant having foliage that persists and remains green throughout the year
fever tree;any of several trees having leaves or barks used to allay fever or thought to indicate regions free of fever
astreus pteridis;the largest earthstar. the fruiting body can measure 15 cm across when the rays are expanded
bluebill;diving ducks of north america having a bluish-gray bill
bonduc tree;tropical tree with large prickly pods of seeds that resemble beans and are used for jewelry and rosaries
bruin;large ferocious bear of eurasia
swertia speciosa;tall herb with panicles of white flowers flushed with green. northwestern united states. sometimes placed in genus swertia
minnie bush;low shrub of the eastern united states with downy twigs
grinder;a machine that processes materials by grinding or crushing
giant silkworm moth;any silkworm moth of the family saturniidae
water elm;large ornamental tree with graceful gradually spreading branches common in eastern north america
lepus arcticus;large hare of arctic america almost completely white in winter
cryptoprocta ferox;largest carnivore of madagascar. intermediate in some respects between cats and civets
black cherry;large north american wild cherry with round black sour edible fruit
wild lily of the valley;evergreen with rounded leaves and very fragrant creamy-white flowers. widely distributed in northern parts of old and new worlds
cacao moth;small moth whose larvae feed on tobacco and other dried plant products
bay grass;any of various grasses of the genus_eragrostis. useful especially for forage and prevention of erosion
kanchil;small chevrotain of southeastern asia
sawfish;primitive ray with sharp teeth on each edge of a long flattened snout
aspergillus fumigatus;a mold causing aspergillosis in birds and man
red ash;smallish american tree with velvety branchlets and lower leaf surfaces
notebook;a small compact computer
shrimpfish;slender tropical shallow-water east indian fish covered with transparent plates
gardenia;any of various shrubs and small trees of the genus gardenia having large fragrant white or yellow flowers
filaria;slender threadlike roundworms living in the blood and tissues of vertebrates. transmitted as larvae by biting insects
bowhead;large-mouthed arctic whale
tortrix;california moth whose larvae live in esp. oranges
urginea maritima;having dense spikes of small white flowers and yielding a bulb with medicinal properties
sealyham;a welsh terrier first bred in sealyham (wales)
white prairie aster;perennial of western north america having white flowers
troglodytes aedon;common american wren that nests around houses
leiophyllum buxifolium;low-growing evergreen shrub of new jersey to florida grown for its many white star-shaped flowers and glossy foliage
cranberry heath;small prostrate or ascending shrub having scarlet flowers and thin-fleshed succulent fruit resembling cranberries. sometimes place in genus styphelia
belgian shepherd;hardy working dog developed in belgium for herding sheep
andira inermis;tree with shaggy unpleasant-smelling toxic bark and yielding strong durable wood. bark and seeds used as a purgative and vermifuge and narcotic
white cohosh;north american herb with white poisonous berries
caucasian walnut;medium-sized caucasian much-branched tree distinguished from other walnut trees by its winged fruit
cob;white gull having a black back and wings
ceroxylon alpinum;palm of the andes yielding a resinous wax which is mixed with tallow to make candles
blister rust;fungus causing white pine blister rust and having a complex life cycle requiring a plant of genus ribes as alternate host
hart;male red deer
seriema;brazilian cariama. sole representative of the genus cariama
mouse hare;small short-eared burrowing mammal of rocky uplands of asia and western north america
ling;elongate freshwater cod of northern europe and asia and north america having barbels around its mouth
camass;any of several plants of the genus camassia. north and south america
plantation walking horse;a horse marked by stamina and trained to move at a fast running walk
bombax malabarica;east indian silk cotton tree yielding fibers inferior to kapok
worker;sterile member of a colony of social insects that forages for food and cares for the larvae
spotted salamander;european salamander having dark skin with usually yellow spots
vinegarroon;large whipscorpion of mexico and southern united states that emits a vinegary odor when alarmed
winepress;a press that is used to extract the juice from grapes
large crabgrass;a european forage grass grown for hay. a naturalized weed in united states
armillaria ponderosa;a large white mushroom that develops brown stains as it ages. gills are white. odor is spicy and aromatic. collected commercially for oriental cooking the pacific northwest
pawpaw;tropical american shrub or small tree having huge deeply palmately cleft leaves and large oblong yellow fruit
western box turtle;primarily a prairie turtle of western united states and northern mexico
silver grass;of australia and new zealand
spring cleavers;annual having the stem beset with curved prickles. north america and europe and asia
iguanid lizard;lizards of the new world and madagascar and some pacific islands. typically having a long tail and bright throat patch in males
typhoid bacillus;a form of salmonella that causes typhoid fever
zeus faber;european dory
horse of the wood;large black old world grouse
avaram;evergreen indian shrub with vivid yellow flowers whose bark is used in tanning. sometimes placed in genus cassia
rock rabbit;hyrax that lives in rocky areas
sycamore;thick-branched wide-spreading tree of africa and adjacent southwestern asia often buttressed with branches rising from near the ground. produces cluster of edible but inferior figs on short leafless twigs. the biblical sycamore
true lobster;large edible marine crustaceans having large pincers on the first pair of legs
bunji bunji;australian timber tree whose bark yields a poison
white avens;avens of virginia having pale or greenish yellow flowers
quack grass;european grass spreading rapidly by creeping rhizomes. naturalized in north america as a weed
climbing maidenhair;tropical fern widespread in old world. naturalized in jamaica and florida
cucurbita argyrosperma;plant bearing squash having globose to ovoid fruit with variously striped gray and green and white warty rinds
pyrethrum;white-flowered pyrethrum of balkan area whose pinnate leaves are white and silky-hairy below. source of an insecticide. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
wisteria venusta;a wisteria of china having white flowers
white tail;common north american deer. tail has a white underside
japanese privet;evergreen shrub of japan and korea having small dark leaves and flowers in loose panicles. related to but smaller than chinese privet
asparagus bean;south american bean having very long succulent pods
lithocarpus densiflorus;evergreen oak of the pacific coast area having large leathery leaves. yields tanbark
holocanthus tricolor;gold and black butterflyfish found from west indies to brazil
shallot;type of onion plant producing small clustered mild-flavored bulbs used as seasoning
monotype;a keyboard-operated typesetting machine that sets separate characters
whidah;mostly black african weaverbird
gonococcus;the pus-producing bacterium that causes gonorrhea
thelypteris palustris;fern having pinnatifid fronds and growing in wet places. cosmopolitan in north temperate regions
catchfly;any plant of the genus silene
anemone tetonensis;silky-foliaged herb of rocky mts with bluish-white flowers
siamang;large black gibbon of sumatra having the 2nd and 3rd toes partially united by a web
demoiselle;small brilliantly colored tropical marine fishes of coral reefs
chinchilla laniger;small rodent with soft pearly gray fur. native to the andes but bred in captivity for fur
ropebark;deciduous shrub of eastern north america having tough flexible branches and pliable bark and small yellow flowers
fledgeling;young bird that has just fledged or become capable of flying
wood violet;common european violet that grows in woods and hedgerows
sweet gale;bog shrub of north temperate zone having bitter-tasting fragrant leaves
boswellia carteri;tree yielding an aromatic gum resin burned as incense
australopithecus robustus;large-toothed hominid of southern africa. from 1.5 to 2 million years ago. formerly paranthropus
golden larch;chinese larchlike deciduous conifer with golden yellow leaves
grass leaved golden aster;a variety of golden aster
false bittersweet;twining shrub of north america having three-valved yellow capsules enclosing scarlet seeds
domestic ass;domestic beast of burden descended from the african wild ass. patient but stubborn
scaly pholiota;a gilled fungus with a cap and stalk that are conspicuously scaly with upright scales. gills develop a greenish tinge with age
apricot;asian tree having clusters of usually white blossoms and edible peachlike fruit
uowa crab apple;wild crab apple of western united states with fragrant pink flowers
abies bracteata;a pyramidal fir of southwestern california having spiny pointed leaves and cone scales with long spines
glasswort;bushy plant of old world salt marshes and sea beaches having prickly leaves. burned to produce a crude soda ash
squirrel s foot fern;feathery fern of tropical asia and malaysia
agave cantala;philippine plant yielding a hard fibre used in making coarse twine
white whale;small northern whale that is white when adult
clementine;a variety of mandarin orange
rex begonia;any of numerous usually rhizomatous hybrid begonias derived from an east indian plant having rough-textured leaves patterned in silver and bronze and purple and red-brown with inconspicuous flowers
naemorhedus goral;small goat antelope with small conical horns. of south asian mountains
sea bream;any of numerous marine percoid fishes especially (but not exclusively) of the family sparidae
california whipsnake;a whipsnake of scrublands and rocky hillsides
sand grouse;pigeon-like bird of arid regions of the old world having long pointed wings and tail and precocial downy young
corythosaur;duck-billed dinosaur with nasal passages that expand into a crest like a hollow helmet
goldfields;small slender woolly annual with very narrow opposite leaves and branches bearing solitary golden-yellow flower heads. southwestern oregon to baja california and arizona. often cultivated
combtooth blenny;small usually scaleless fishes with comb-like teeth living about rocky shores. territorial and hole-dwelling
barrow s goldeneye;north american goldeneye diving duck
virginia strawberry;north american wild strawberry with sweet scarlet fruit. a source of many cultivated strawberries
colocasia esculenta;herb of the pacific islands grown throughout the tropics for its edible root and in temperate areas as an ornamental for its large glossy leaves
sika;small deer of japan with slightly forked antlers
coastal rein orchid;stout orchid of central california to northern washington having racemes of white fragrant bilaterally symmetrical flowers
polygonum aubertii;twining perennial vine having racemes of fragrant greenish flowers. western china to russia
matrimony vine;any of various shrubs or vines of the genus lycium with showy flowers and bright berries
goony;a variety of albatross with black feet
balloonfish;similar to but smaller than porcupinefish
honey buzzard;old world hawk that feeds on bee larvae and small rodents and reptiles
green broom;deciduous erect spreading broom native to western europe. widely cultivated for its rich yellow flowers
texas snowbells;styrax of southwestern united states. a threatened species
acrocarpous moss;a moss in which the main axis is terminated by the archegonium (and hence the capsule)
crownbeard;any plant of the genus verbesina having clustered white or yellow flower heads
hydrilla;submersed plant with whorled lanceolate leaves and solitary axillary flowers. old world plant naturalized in southern united states and clogging florida's waterways
sturt s desert pea;sprawling shrubby perennial noted for its scarlet black-marked flowers. widely distributed in dry parts of australia
mock privet;evergreen shrub with white flowers and olivelike fruits
georgia pine;large 3-needled pine of southeastern united states having very long needles and gnarled twisted limbs. bark is red-brown deeply ridgedged. an important timber tree
satureia hortensis;erect annual herb with oval leaves and pink flowers. used to flavor e.g. meats or soups or salads. southeastern europe and naturalized elsewhere
cow tongue fern;common epiphytic or sometimes terrestrial fern having pale yellow-green strap-shaped leaves. florida to west indies and mexico and south to uruguay
eucalypt tereticornis;tall tree of queensland and new south wales and victoria
mei;japanese ornamental tree with fragrant white or pink blossoms and small yellow fruits
astrantia major;european herb with aromatic roots and leaves in a basal tuft and showy compound umbels of white to rosy flowers
dwarf sumac;common nonpoisonous shrub of eastern north america with compound leaves and green paniculate flowers followed by red berries
aspalathus linearis;south african shrub having flat acuminate leaves and yellow flowers. leaves are aromatic when dried and used to make an herbal tea
tamarack;medium-sized larch of canada and northern united states including alaska having a broad conic crown and rust-brown scaly bark
pinus echinata;large pine of southrn united states having short needles in bunches of 2-3 and red-brown bark when mature
atm;a machine (outside some banks) that dispenses cash when a personal coded card is used
feterita;a sudanese sorghum having exceptionally large soft white grains
gray sage;low much-branched perennial of western united states having silvery leaves. an important browse and shelter plant
sphinx moth;any of various moths with long narrow forewings capable of powerful flight and hovering over flowers to feed
mandioc;cassava with long tuberous edible roots and soft brittle stems. used especially to make cassiri (an intoxicating drink) and tapioca
waxberry;deciduous aromatic shrub of eastern north america with gray-green wax-coated berries
rat terrier;any of several breeds of terrier developed to catch rats
tree of the gods;deciduous rapidly growing tree of china with sumaclike foliage and sweetish fetid flowers. widely planted in united states as a street tree because of its resistance to pollution
legionary ant;tropical nomadic ant that preys mainly on other insects
speedwell;any plant of the genus veronica
eyas;an unfledged or nestling hawk
male fern;fern of north america and europe whose rhizomes and stalks yield an oleoresin used to expel tapeworms
rockfish;marine food fish found among rocks along the northern coasts of europe and america
cowfish;trunkfish having hornlike spines over the eyes
yellow cleavers;common yellow-flowered perennial bedstraw. north america and europe and asia
lycopodium lucidulum;a variety of clubmoss
leaf cutter bee;bee that cuts rounded pieces from leaves and flowers to line its nest
kurchi;tropical asian tree with hard white wood and bark formerly used as a remedy for dysentery and diarrhea
accipiter nisus;small hawk of eurasia and north africa
dieffenbachia sequine;a evergreen plant with large showy dark green leaves. contains a poison that swells the tongue and throat hence the name
hummingbird;tiny american bird having brilliant iridescent plumage and long slender bills. wings are specialized for vibrating flight
japanese lime;medium-sized tree of japan used as an ornamental
smoke tree;grayish-green shrub of desert regions of southwestern united states nd mexico having sparse foliage and terminal spikes of bluish violet flowers. locally important as source of a light-colored honey of excellent flavor
sheep s fescue;cultivated for sheep pasturage in upland regions or used as a lawn grass
botany bay fig;australian tree resembling the banyan often planted for ornament. introduced into south africa for brushwood
aphid;any of various small plant-sucking insects
blue marlin;largest marlin. may reach 2000 pounds. found worldwide in warm seas
capsicum pepper plant;any of various tropical plants of the genus capsicum bearing peppers
salmo gairdneri;found in pacific coastal waters and streams from lower california to alaska
yellow pimpernel;trailing european evergreen with yellow flowers
salix herbacea;widely distributed boreal shrubby willow with partially underground creeping stems and bright green glossy leaves
painted leaf;tropical american plant having poisonous milk and showy tapering usually scarlet petallike leaves surrounding small yellow flowers
african daisy;african or asiatic herbs with daisylike flowers
dollarfish;small food fish of atlantic coast
true marmoset;a marmoset
cortinarius violaceus;a fungus that is violet over-all with a squamulose cap
pout;catfish common in eastern united states
white croaker;small silvery marine food fish found off california
wood sage;subshrub with serrate leaves and cream to pink or purple flowers in spikelike racemes. north america
rock wallaby;slender long-legged australian wallabies living in caves and rocky areas
fire thorn;any of various thorny shrubs of the genus pyracantha bearing small white flowers followed by hard red or orange-red berries
bush honeysuckle;a honeysuckle shrub of southern russia to central asia
purple fringed orchid;north american orchid with clusters of fragrant purple fringed flowers
silverbell tree;medium-sized tree of west virginia to florida and texas
dwarf sperm whale;very small (to 8 feet) sperm whale of central coasts of atlantic and pacific
bent;grass for pastures and lawns especially bowling and putting greens
snake polypody;epiphytic ferns with long rhizomes. tropical america
framboise;the common european raspberry. fruit red or orange
striper;marine food and game fish with dark longitudinal stripes. migrates upriver to spawn. sometimes placed in the genus morone (morone saxatilis)
linanthus dianthiflorus;low wiry-stemmed branching herb or southern california having fringed pink flowers
wallaby;any of various small or medium-sized kangaroos often brightly colored
andropogon virginicus;tall tufted grass of southeastern united states
clintonia andrewsiana;plant with nearly leafless stalk topped by an umbel-like cluster of red or reddish_lavender flowers. california to oregon
white spanish broom;low european broom having trifoliate leaves and yellowish-white flowers
red panda;reddish-brown old world raccoon-like carnivore. in some classifications considered unrelated to the giant pandas
scentless mayweed;ubiquitous european annual weed with white flowers and finely divided leaves naturalized and sometimes cultivated in eastern north america. sometimes included in genus matricaria
garden snail;any of several inedible snails of the genus helix. often destructive pests
sphenodon punctatum;only extant member of the order rhynchocephalia of large spiny lizard-like diapsid reptiles of coastal islands off new zealand
dusty miller;herb with grayish leaves found along the east coast of north america. used as an ornamental plant
basenji;small smooth-haired breed of african origin having a tightly curled tail and the inability to bark
felicia bergeriana;softly hairy south african herb having flowers with bright blue rays
comandra pallida;woody creeping parasite of western north america having numerous thick powderly-looking leaves and panicles of small dull-white flowers
african walnut;tropical african timber tree with mahoganylike wood
rubus fruticosus;the true blackberry of europe as well as any of numerous varieties or microspecies having sweet edible black or dark purple berries
tobacco thrips;injurious to growing tobacco and peanuts
titi;small south american monkeys with long beautiful fur and long nonprehensile tail
pseudoryx nghetinhensis;cow-like creature with the glossy coat of a horse and the agility of a goat and the long horns of an antelope. characterized as a cow that lives the life of a goat
black salsify;perennial south european herb having narrow entire leaves and solitary yellow flower heads and long black-skinned carrot-shaped edible roots
conifer;any gymnospermous tree or shrub bearing cones
oxheart cherry;any of several cultivated sweet cherries having sweet juicy heart-shaped fruits
potto;a kind of lemur
fuscoboletinus serotinus;an edible fungus with a broadly convex brown cap and a whitish pore surface and stalk
vicia villosa;european vetch much cultivated as forage and cover crops
adder s fern;mat-forming lithophytic or terrestrial fern with creeping rootstocks and large pinnatifid fronds found throughout north america and europe and africa and east asia
automatic pilot;"automatically keeps ships or planes or spacecraft on a steady course"
earwig;any of numerous insects of the order dermaptera having elongate bodies and slender many-jointed antennae and a pair of large pincers at the rear of the abdomen
nuttall s oak;similar to the pin oak. grows in damp sites in mississippi river basin
papaw tree;small tree native to the eastern united states having oblong leaves and fleshy fruit
wolf cub;a young wolf
keeled garlic;eurasian bulbous plant
briar;a very prickly woody vine of the eastern united states growing in tangled masses having tough round stems with shiny leathery leaves and small greenish flowers followed by clusters of inedible shiny black berries
shrew;small mouselike long-snouted mammal related to moles
pinus contorta;shrubby 2-needled pine of coastal northwestern united states. red to yellow-brown bark fissured into small squares
needlebush;shrub with pungent rigid needle-shaped leaves and white flowers. eastern australia
hyla regilla;most commonly heard frog on the pacific coast of america
greenland whale;large-mouthed arctic whale
bee killer;swift predatory fly having a strong body like a bee with the proboscis hardened for sucking juices of other insects captured on the wing
white bedstraw;eurasian herb with ample panicles of small white flowers. naturalized in north america
wild dog;any of various undomesticated mammals of the family canidae that are thought to resemble domestic dogs as distinguished from jackals or wolves
climbing fumitory;vine with feathery leaves and white or pinkish flowers. sometimes placed in genus fumaria
bur reed;marsh plant having elongated linear leaves and round prickly fruit
jacaranda;an important brazilian timber tree yielding a heavy hard dark-colored wood streaked with black
ganja;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
helmet flower;a poisonous herb native to northern europe having hooded blue-purple flowers. the dried leaves and roots yield aconite
variegated horsetail;northern north america. greenland. northern and central europe
lepidopteron;insect that in the adult state has four wings more or less covered with tiny scales
astrantia;any plant of the genus astrantia
french bean;common bean plant cultivated for its slender green edible pods
epilachna varivestis;introduced into the united states from mexico. feeds on the foliage of the bean plant
selaginella apoda;spikemoss forming dense mats. eastern north america
crow corn;any of several perennials of the genus aletris having grasslike leaves and bitter roots reputed to cure colic
yellow parilla;a woody vine of eastern north america having large oval leaves and small white flowers and purple to blue-black fruits
ribes uva crispa;spiny eurasian shrub having greenish purple-tinged flowers and ovoid yellow-green or red-purple berries
cotinus americanus;shrubby tree of southern united states having large plumes of feathery flowers resembling puffs of smoke
maranta;any of numerous herbs of the genus maranta having tuberous starchy roots and large sheathing leaves
cloud grass;spanish grass with light feathery panicles grown for dried bouquets
wild fig;a west indies clusia having fig-shaped fruit
migratory grasshopper;serious pest of grain-growing and range areas of central and western united states
habenaria chlorantha;south european orchid with dark green flowers that are larger and less fragrant than platanthera bifolia. sometimes placed in genus habenaria
great st john s wort;perennial shrub having large star-shaped yellow flowers in narrowly pyramidal cymes
shire horse;british breed of large heavy draft horse
blue tit;widely distributed european titmouse with bright cobalt blue wings and tail and crown of the head
skimmer;gull-like seabird that flies along the surface of the water with an elongated lower mandible immersed to skim out food
tawny eagle;brownish eagle of africa and parts of asia
scoter;large black diving duck of northern parts of the northern hemisphere
johnny jump up;a common and long cultivated european herb from which most common garden pansies are derived
triticum turgidum;wheat with hard dark-colored kernels high in gluten and used for bread and pasta. grown especially in southern russia, north africa, and northern central north america
american columbo;any of various tall perennial herbs constituting the genus frasera. widely distributed in warm dry upland areas of the united states pacific states
jacquinia armillaris;small west indian shrub or tree with hard glossy seeds patterned yellow and brown that are used to make bracelets
spotted cranesbill;common wild geranium of eastern north america with deeply parted leaves and rose-purple flowers
feijoa bush;south american shrub having edible greenish plumlike fruit
sticktight;any of several plants of the genus bidens having yellow flowers and prickly fruits that cling to fur and clothing
sciaenops ocellatus;large edible fish found off coast of united states from massachusetts to mexico
crape fern;new zealand with pinnate fronds and a densely woolly stalks. sometimes included in genus todea
gentiana andrewsii;gentian of eastern north america having tubular blue or white flowers that open little if at all
hackee;small striped semiterrestrial eastern american squirrel with cheek pouches
jaguarundi;long-bodied long-tailed tropical american wildcat
wild china tree;deciduous tree of southwestern united states having pulpy fruit containing saponin
hudsonian godwit;new world godwit
camassia scilloides;eastern camas. eastern and central north america
ficus carica sylvestris;wild variety of the common fig used to facilitate pollination of certain figs
spitting cobra;aggressive cobra widely distributed in africa. rarely bites but spits venom that may cause blindness
fire bellied toad;toad of central and eastern europe having red or orange patches on its underside
red rat snake;large harmless snake of southeastern united states. often on farms
king crab;large european spider crab
durian;tree of southeastern asia having edible oval fruit with a hard spiny rind
cash machine;a machine (outside some banks) that dispenses cash when a personal coded card is used
tramp s spurge;common perennial united states spurge having showy white petallike bracts
common madia;california annual having red-brown spots near the base of its yellow flower rays
worm snake;wormlike burrowing snake of warm regions having vestigial eyes
polyporus squamosus;a fungus with a lateral stalk (when there is a stalk) and a scaly cap that becomes nearly black in maturity. widely distributed in the northern hemisphere
polanisia dodecandra;strong-scented herb common in southern united states covered with intermixed gland and hairs
townsendia exscapa;dwarf tufted nearly stemless herb having a rosette of woolly leaves and large white-rayed flower heads and bristly achenes. central canada and united states west to arizona
anthus pratensis;a common pipit that is brown above and white below. widely distributed in northern and central europe and in asia
glossy snake;nocturnal burrowing snake of western united states with shiny tan scales
squaw corn;corn having kernels almost entirely of soft starch
sickle lucerne;european medic naturalized in north america having yellow flowers and sickle-shaped pods
verpa conica;a morel with a fertile portion that has a relatively smooth surface. the stalk is fragile
cock of the rock;tropical bird of northern south america the male having brilliant red or orange plumage and an erectile disklike crest
lion s foot;common perennial herb widely distributed in the southern and eastern united states having drooping clusters of pinkish flowers and thick basal leaves suggesting a lion's foot in shape. sometimes placed in genus prenanthes
hairy vetch;european vetch much cultivated as forage and cover crops
helianthus;any plant of the genus helianthus having large flower heads with dark disk florets and showy yellow rays
taxus brevifolia;small or medium irregularly branched tree of the pacific coast of north america. yields fine hard close-grained wood
chimney bellflower;bellflower of southeastern europe
armored scale;insect having a firm covering of wax esp. in the female
narrow leaved water plantain;a variety of water plantain
oil beetle;any of various beetles that exude an oily substance from the leg joints that deters enemies
cape dagga;relatively nontoxic south african herb smoked like tobacco
caecilian;any of the small slender limbless burrowing wormlike amphibians of the order gymnophiona. inhabit moist soil in tropical regions
marabou stork;large african black-and-white carion-eating stork. downy under-wing feathers are used to trim garments
golden stars;california plant having grasslike leaves and showy orange flowers
atlantic croaker;silvery-bodied with dark markings and tiny barbels
strangler;an epiphytic vine or tree whose aerial roots extend down the trunk of a supporting tree and coalesce around it eventually strangling the tree
lerot;dormouse of southern europe and northern africa
rana palustris;a meadow frog of eastern north america
sison amomum;slender roadside herb of western europe and mediterranean having parsleylike foliage and white flowers with aromatic seeds
curcuma domestica;widely cultivated tropical plant of india having yellow flowers and a large aromatic deep yellow rhizome. source of a condiment and a yellow dye
bonavist;perennial twining vine of old world tropics having trifoliate leaves and racemes of fragrant purple pealike flowers followed by maroon pods of edible seeds. grown as an ornamental and as a vegetable on the indian subcontinent. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
fountain grass;tall perennial ornamental grass with long nodding flower plumes of tropical africa and asia
nauclea diderrichii;large african forest tree yielding a strong hard yellow to golden brown lumber. sometimes placed in genus sarcocephalus
radyera farragei;southern and western australian shrub with unlobed or shallowly lobed toothed leaves and purple flowers. sometimes placed in genus hibiscus
arizona ash;small shrubby ash of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico
aster novae angliae;common perennial of eastern north america having showy purplish flowers. a parent of the michaelmas daisy
christmas green;any of several club mosses having long creeping stems and erect branches
swan river everlasting;australian annual everlasting having light pink nodding flower heads. sometimes placed in genus helipterum
perch;spiny-finned freshwater food and game fishes
grasshopper mouse;insectivorous mouse of western north america
kumquat tree;any of several trees or shrubs of the genus fortunella bearing small orange-colored edible fruits with thick sweet-flavored skin and sour pulp
calamus rotang;climbing palm of sri lanka and southern india remarkable for the great length of the stems which are used for malacca canes
common starling;gregarious bird having plumage with dark metallic gloss. builds nests around dwellings and other structures. naturalized worldwide
winter sweet;deciduous japanese shrub cultivated for its fragrant yellow flowers
walkingstick;any of various mostly tropical insects having long twiglike bodies
chauna torquata;largest crested screamer. naive to southern brazil and argentina
agapanthus;any of various plants of the genus agapanthus having umbels of showy blue to purple flowers
sagebrush buttercup;small early-flowering buttercup with shiny yellow flowers of western north america
paralithodes camtschatica;large edible crab of north pacific waters esp. along the coasts of alaska and japan
lobelia siphilitica;tall erect and very leafy perennial herb of eastern north america having dense spikes of blue flowers
chile bonito;common bonito of pacific coast of the americas. its dark oily flesh cans well
australian hare s foot;a hare's-foot fern of the genus davallia
western poppy;showy annual of california with red flowers
mina;tropical asian starlings
chilli pepper;plant bearing very hot and finely tapering long peppers. usually red
streptococci;spherical gram-positive bacteria occurring in pairs or chains. cause e.g. scarlet fever and tonsillitis
oak leaved goosefoot;annual european plant with spikes of greenish flowers and leaves that are white-hairy beneath. common as a weed in north america
cassia acutifolia;erect shrub having racemes of tawny yellow flowers. the dried leaves are used medicinally as a cathartic. sometimes placed in genus cassia
iris;plants with sword-shaped leaves and erect stalks bearing bright-colored flowers composed of three petals and three drooping sepals
king charles spaniel;a toy english spaniel with a black-and-tan coat. named after charles ii who popularized it
southern beech fern;beech fern of north american woodlands having straw-colored stripes
chloris gayana;perennial grass of south africa introduced into united states. cultivated as forage grass in dry regions
rhus trilobata;deciduous shrub of california with unpleasantly scented usually trivoliate leaves and edible fruit
axseed;european vetchlike herb naturalized in the eastern united states having umbels of pink-and-white flowers and sharp-angled pods
idesia;deciduous round-headed asiatic tree widely grown in mild climates as an ornamental for its heart-shaped leaves and fragrant yellow-green flowers followed by hanging clusters of fleshy orange-red berries
brown bent;common grass with slender stems and narrow leaves
bengal rose;shrubby chinese rose. ancestor of many cultivated garden roses
herbs mercury;eurafrican annual naturalized in america as a weed. formerly dried for use as a purgative, diuretic or antisyphilitic
toad;any of various tailless stout-bodied amphibians with long hind limbs for leaping. semiaquatic and terrestrial species
osmunda cinnamonea;new world fern having woolly cinnamon-colored spore-bearing fronds in early spring later surrounded by green fronds. the early uncurling fronds are edible
mahogany tree;any of various tropical timber trees of the family meliaceae especially the genus swietinia valued for their hard yellowish- to reddish-brown wood that is readily worked and takes a high polish
salmon trout;large fork-tailed trout of lakes of canada and the northern united states
lizard;relatively long-bodied reptile with usually two pairs of legs and a tapering tail
urocystis tritici;fungus affecting leaves and stems of wheat
cacique;black-and-red or black-and-yellow orioles of the american tropics
natrix natrix;harmless european snake with a bright yellow collar. common in england
auxiliary engine;a small engine (as one used on board ships to operate a windlass)
cordgrass;any of several perennial grasses of the genus spartina. some important as coastal soil binders
tussore;oriental moth that produces brownish silk
mountain hemlock;large evergreen of western united states. wood much harder than canadian hemlock
mountain avens;creeping evergreen white-flowered shrub of matlike habit widely distributed in northern portions of eurasia and north america
link trainer;a ground-training machine that simulates the conditions of flying a plane
sea horse;either of two large northern marine mammals having ivory tusks and tough hide over thick blubber
striped maple;maple of eastern north america with striped bard and large 2-lobed leaves clear yellow in autumn
cross leaved heath;dwarf european shrub with rose-colored flowers
giant star grass;perennial grass having stems 3 to 4 feet high. used especially in africa and india for pasture and hay
tusser;oriental moth that produces brownish silk
sago palm;any of various tropical asian palm trees the trunks of which yield sago
florida smoothhound;found from the northern gulf of mexico to brazil
common amsinckia;annual of western united states with coiled spikes of yellow-orange coiled flowers
turk s cap;lily with small dull purple flowers of northwestern europe and ny asia
ram s head lady s slipper;orchid of northern north america having a brownish-green flower and red-and-white lip suggestive of a ram's head
lace fern;small tufted fern of northwestern america
gadoid;a soft-finned fish of the family gadidae
platanus wrightii;medium-sized tree of arizona and adjacent regions having deeply lobed leaves and collective fruits in groups of 3 to 5
kentucy blue grass;valuable meadow and pasture grass in europe and especially central united states having tall stalks and slender bright green leaves. a chief constituent in lawn grass mixtures
ephippiorhynchus senegalensis;large black-and-white stork of tropical africa. its red bill has a black band around the middle
cydonia oblonga;small asian tree with pinkish flowers and pear-shaped fruit. widely cultivated
cabbage palmetto;low-growing fan-leaved palm of coastal southern united states having edible leaf buds
pipistrel;small european brown bat
aconitum lycoctonum;poisonous eurasian perennial herb with broad rounded leaves and yellow flowers and fibrous rootstock
centropus phasianinus;australian bird with a tail like a pheasant
squirrelfish;very small brightly colored (esp. red) nocturnal fishes of shallow waters of tropical reefs. they make sounds like a squirrel's bark
tsuga heterophylla;tall evergreen of western north america. commercially important timber tree
oxalis corniculata;creeping much-branched mat-forming weed. cosmopolitan
wild goat;undomesticated goat
mammillaria;any cactus of the genus mammilaria
mergus merganser americanus;common north american diving duck considered a variety of the european goosander
missouri gourd;perennial vine of dry parts of central and southwestern united states and mexico having small hard mottled green inedible fruit
butterfly flower;any plant of the genus schizanthus having finely divided leaves and showy variegated flowers
ameiurus melas;catfish common in eastern united states
dutchman s breeches;delicate spring-flowering plant of the eastern united states having double-spurred white flowers
fleabane;any of several north american plants of the genus erigeron having daisylike flowers. formerly believed to repel fleas
prunus cerasus caproniana;any of several cultivated sour cherry trees bearing pale red fruit with colorless juice
homo soloensis;extinct primitive hominid of late pleistocene. java. formerly javanthropus
corvus corax;large black bird with a straight bill and long wedge-shaped tail
cornus mas;deciduous european shrub or small tree having bright red fruit
matchweed;any of several plants of the genus gutierrezia having tiny matchlike flower heads
bell pepper;plant bearing large mild thick-walled usually bell-shaped fruits. the principal salad peppers
corgi;either of two welsh breeds of long-bodied short-legged dogs with erect ears and a fox-like head
suckling;a young mammal that has not been weaned
malanga;tropical american aroid having edible tubers that are cooked and eaten like yams or potatoes
calamus penna;from florida and bahamas to brazil
vinca minor;widely cultivated as a groundcover for its dark green shiny leaves and usually blue-violet flowers
poultry;a domesticated gallinaceous bird though to be descended from the red jungle fowl
larvacean;any member of the class larvacea
papaya tree;tropical american shrub or small tree having huge deeply palmately cleft leaves and large oblong yellow fruit
eucarya acuminata;australian tree with edible flesh and edible nutlike seed
lesser panda;reddish-brown old world raccoon-like carnivore. in some classifications considered unrelated to the giant pandas
heath aster;common north american perennial with heathlike foliage and small white flower heads
totalisator;registers bets and divides the total amount bet among those who won
zoophyte;any of various invertebrate animals resembling a plant such as a sea anemone or coral or sponge
callimorpha jacobeae;large red-and-black european moth. larvae feed on leaves of ragwort. introduced into united states to control ragwort
protoavis;most primitive avian type known. extinct bird of the triassic having birdlike jaw and hollow limbs and breastbone with dinosaur-like tail and hind limbs
enterobacteria;rod-shaped gram-negative bacteria. most occur normally or pathogenically in intestines of humans and other animals
cladonia rangiferina;an erect grayish branching lichen of arctic and even some north temperate regions constituting the chief food for reindeer and caribou and sometimes being eaten by humans
marsh horsetail;scouring-rush horsetail widely distributed in wet or boggy areas of northern hemisphere
vicia cracca;common perennial climber of temperate regions of eurasia and north america having dense elongate clusters of flowers
true blackberry;the true blackberry of europe as well as any of numerous varieties or microspecies having sweet edible black or dark purple berries
baltimore bird;eastern subspecies of northern oriole
blazing star;any of various north american plants of the genus liatris having racemes or panicles of small discoid flower heads
plant bug;small bright-colored insect that feeds on plant juices
torpedo;any sluggish bottom-dwelling ray of the order torpediniformes having a rounded body and electric organs on each side of the head capable of emitting strong electric discharges
kaffir boom;small semi-evergreen of south africa having dense clusters of clear scarlet flowers and red seeds
simal;east indian silk cotton tree yielding fibers inferior to kapok
american beech;north american forest tree with light green leaves and edible nuts
celandine;north american annual plant with usually yellow or orange flowers. grows chiefly on wet rather acid soil
stomatopod;a kind of crustacean
papaia;tropical american shrub or small tree having huge deeply palmately cleft leaves and large oblong yellow fruit
white throated sparrow;common north american finch with a white patch on the throat and black-and-white striped crown
miller s thumb;small freshwater sculpin of europe and north america
german iris;iris of northern italy having deep blue-purple flowers. similar to but smaller than iris germanica
largemouthed bass;a large black bass. the angle of the jaw falls behind the eye
slug;any of various terrestrial gastropods having an elongated slimy body and no external shell
cisco;important food fish of cold deep lakes of north america
slave ant;any of various ants captured as larvae and enslaved by another species
vinifera;common european grape cultivated in many varieties. chief source of old world wine and table grapes
ophrys sphegodes;spring-blooming spider orchid having a flower with yellow or green or pink sepals and a broad brown velvety lip
lamium album;european dead nettle with white flowers
common grape hyacinth;prolific species having particularly beautiful dark blue flowers
sanicula bipinnatifida;sanicle of northwestern united states and british columbia having yellow or red or purple flowers
california four o clock;california four_o'clock with purple-red flowers
convictfish;greenling with whitish body marked with black bands
gentiana pneumonanthe;perennial eurasian gentian with sky-blue funnel-shaped flowers of damp open heaths
scolopendrium nigripes;a fern of the genus schaffneria
winter flowering cherry;shrub or tree native to japan cultivated as an ornamental for its rose-pink flowers
limosa haemastica;new world godwit
wild pink;a bog orchid with usually a solitary fragrant magenta pink blossom with a wide-gaping corolla. canada
ornithomimid;lightly built medium-sized dinosaur having extremely long limbs and necks with small heads and big brains and large eyes
may apple;north american herb with poisonous root stock and edible though insipid fruit
alaskan brown bear;brown bear of coastal alaska and british columbia
scentless false camomile;ubiquitous european annual weed with white flowers and finely divided leaves naturalized and sometimes cultivated in eastern north america. sometimes included in genus matricaria
stink fly;pale green unpleasant-smelling lacewing fly having carnivorous larvae
felis bengalensis;small spotted wildcat of southern asia and malaysia
mandarin;shrub or small tree having flattened globose fruit with very sweet aromatic pulp and thin yellow-orange to flame-orange rind that is loose and easily removed. native to southeastern asia
wood poppy;perennial here native to woodland of the eastern united states having yellow flowers
gnathostome;a vertebrate animal possessing true jaws
oregon lily;lily of western north america with showy orange-red purple-spotted flowers
catbrier;a very prickly woody vine of the eastern united states growing in tangled masses having tough round stems with shiny leathery leaves and small greenish flowers followed by clusters of inedible shiny black berries
catfish;any of numerous mostly freshwater bottom-living fishes of eurasia and north america with barbels like whiskers around the mouth
monotropa hypopithys;fleshy tawny or reddish saprophytic herb resembling the indian pipe and growing in woodland humus of eastern north america. in some classifications placed in a separate genus hypopitys
mountain lady s slipper;leafy plant having a few stems in a clump with 1 white and dull purple flower in each upper leaf axil. alaska to northern california and wyoming
rimu;tall new zealand timber tree
teleost fish;a bony fish of the subclass teleostei
eucalypt ovata;medium-sized tree of southern australia
fetter bush;showy evergreen shrub of southeastern united states with shiny leaves and angled branches and umbel-like clusters of pink to reddish flowers
ground shaker;huge herbivorous dinosaur of the cretaceous found in western north america
antelope squirrel;small ground squirrel of western united states
pug;small compact smooth-coated breed of asiatic origin having a tightly curled tail and broad flat wrinkled muzzle
woodworm;a larva of a woodborer
stellaria holostea;low-growing north temperate herb having small white star-shaped flowers. named for its alleged ability to ease sharp pains in the side
brazil nut tree;tall south american tree bearing brazil nuts
manzanita;chiefly evergreen shrubs of warm dry areas of western north america
platymiscium pinnatum;large erect shrub of columbia having large odd-pinnate leaves with large leaflets and axillary racemes of fragrant yellow flowers
iowa crab;wild crab apple of western united states with fragrant pink flowers
pinus torreyana;medium-sized 5-needled pine of southwestern california having long cylindrical cones
atlantic bottlenose dolphin;the most common dolphin of north atlantic and mediterranean. often kept captive and trained to perform
india rubber fig;large tropical asian tree frequently dwarfed as a houseplant. source of assam rubber
populus deltoides;a common poplar of eastern and central united states. cultivated in united states for its rapid growth and luxuriant foliage and in europe for timber
sea wrack;growth of marine vegetation esp. of the large forms such as rockweeds and kelp
raoulia australis;perennial prostrate mat-forming herb with hoary woolly foliage
silverweed;any of various twining shrubs of the genus argyreia having silvery leaves and showy purple flowers
lathyrus tuberosus;european herb bearing small tubers used for food and in scotland to flavor whiskey
umbellularia californica;pacific coast tree having aromatic foliage and small umbellate flowers followed by olivelike fruit. yields a hard tough wood
hydraulic press;a force applied by a piston to a small area is transmitted through water to another piston having a large area
jerboa kangaroo;brush-tailed rat kangaroo
anogramma leptophylla;small short-lived fern of central and south america
palm;any plant of the family palmae
brittle willow;large willow tree with stiff branches that are easily broken
emilia javanica;tropical african annual having scarlet tassel-shaped flower heads. sometimes placed in genus cacalia
upupa epops;pinkish-brown hoopoe with black-and-white wings
agropyron smithii;valuable forage grass of western united states
sand phlox;low mat-forming herb of rocky places in united states
goldenbush;a plant of the genus haplopappus
sun rose;any plant of the genus helianthemum. vigorous plants of stony alpine meadows and dry scrub regions
european beggar ticks;of temperate eurasia
traveler s joy;vigorous deciduous climber of europe to afghanistan and lebanon having panicles of fragrant green-white flowers in summer and autumn
brush footed butterfly;medium to large butterflies found worldwide typically having brightly colored wings and much-reduced nonfunctional forelegs carried folded on the breast
tremella fuciformis;popular in china and japan and taiwan. gelatinous mushrooms. most are dried
flameflower;a plant of the genus kniphofia having long grasslike leaves and tall scapes of red or yellow drooping flowers
confederate rose mallow;chinese shrub or small tree having white or pink flowers becoming deep red at night. widely cultivated. naturalized in southeastern united states
musk turtle;small freshwater turtle having a strong musky odor
rock squirrel;large gray ground squirrel of rocky areas of the southwestern united states
pine barren sandwort;deep-rooted perennial of southeastern united states
crested coral root;orchid with yellowish-brown flowers with dark veins. southeastern arizona to the eastern united states
calamus;perennial marsh plant having swordlike leaves and aromatic roots
black sally;small mallee with rough dark-colored bark toward the butt yielding a red eucalyptus kino
coleus blumei;perennial aromatic herb of southeastern asia having large usually bright-colored or blotched leaves and spikes of blue-violet flowers. sometimes placed in genus solenostemon
skunk cabbage;clump-forming deciduous perennial swamp plant of western north america similar to symplocarpus foetidus but having a yellow spathe
star saxifrage;small often mat-forming alpine plant having small starlike white flowers. europe
shell bean plant;a bean plant grown primarily for its edible seed rather than its pod
blackberry bush;bramble with sweet edible black or dark purple berries that usually do not separate from the receptacle
xylaria polymorpha;the fruiting bodies of the fungi of the genus xylaria
horsetail;perennial rushlike flowerless herbs with jointed hollow stems and narrow toothlike leaves that spread by creeping rhizomes. tend to become weedy. common in northern hemisphere. some in africa and south america
carolina allspice;hardy shrub of southeastern united states having clove-scented wood and fragrant red-brown flowers
gerres cinereus;popular panfish from bermuda and gulf of mexico to brazil
helipterum manglesii;australian annual everlasting having light pink nodding flower heads. sometimes placed in genus helipterum
chrysanthemum segetum;european herb with bright yellow flowers. a common weed in grain fields
poison sumac;smooth american swamp shrub with pinnate leaves and greenish flowers followed by greenish white berries. yields an irritating oil
goncalo alves;tall tropical american timber tree especially abundant in eastern brazil. yields hard strong durable zebrawood with straight grain and dark strips on a pinkish to yellowish ground. widely used for veneer and furniture and heavy construction
murre;black-and-white diving bird of northern seas
sea aster;a common european salt-marsh aster
typical jerboa;small nocturnal jumping rodent with long hind legs. of arid parts of north africa and asia
oleandra neriiformis;tropical fern having leathery oleanderlike fronds. asia to polynesia
silver quandong tree;australian tree having hard white timber and glossy green leaves with white flowers followed by one-seeded glossy blue fruit
carancha;south american caracara
cirsium arvense;european thistle naturalized in united states and canada where it is a pernicious weed
hogget;a sheep up to the age of one year. one yet to be sheared
leafy liverwort;mosslike liverwort with tiny scalelike leaves. usually epiphytic
potos flavus;arboreal fruit-eating mammal of tropical america with a long prehensile tail
boll weevil;grayish weevil that lays its eggs in cotton bolls destroying the cotton
amanita caesarea;widely distributed edible mushroom resembling the fly agaric
samphire;fleshy maritime plant having fleshy stems with rudimentary scalelike leaves and small spikes of minute flowers. formerly used in making glass
pulassan;east indian fruit tree bearing fruit similar to but sweeter than that of the rambutan
fire ant;omnivorous ant of tropical and subtropical america that can inflict a painful sting
lyrebird;australian bird that resembles a pheasant. the courting male displays long tail feathers in a lyre shape
stiff aster;wiry tufted perennial of the eastern united states with stiff erect rough stems, linear leaves and large violet flowers
night jasmine;west indian evergreen shrub having clusters of funnel-shaped yellow-white flowers that are fragrant by night
bermuda maidenhair fern;delicate endemic bermudian fern with creeping rootstock
bellflower;any of various plants of the genus campanula having blue or white bell-shaped flowers
western diamondback;largest and most dangerous north american snake. of southwestern united states and mexico
asp;of southern europe. similar to but smaller than the adder
sebastodes ruberrimus;large fish of north american pacific coast
native pear;tree bearing pear-shaped fruit with a thick woody epicarp
crampbark;deciduous thicket-forming old world shrub with clusters of white flowers and small bright red berries
emperor moth;large moth of temperate forests of eurasia having heavily scaled transparent wings
gentleman s cane;tall showy tropical american annual having hairy stems and long spikes of usually red flowers above leaves deeply flushed with purple. seeds often used as cereal
nucifraga columbiana;nutcracker of the western united states
golden star;california plant having grasslike leaves and showy orange flowers
verbesina encelioides;coarse grayish green annual yellow-flowered herb. southwestern united states to mexico
desert plume;perennial of southwestern united states having leathery blue-green pinnatifid leaves and thick plumelike spikes of yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus cleome
addax;large antelope with lightly spiraled horns of desert regions of north africa
ascaridia galli;intestinal parasite of domestic fowl
racerunner;very swift lizard of eastern and central united states
lychnis alba;bluish-green herb having sticky stems and clusters of large evening-opening white flowers with much-inflated calyx. sometimes placed in genus lychnis
prairie dock;stout perennial herb of the eastern united states with whitish flowers. leaves traditionally used by catawba indians to treat burns
oenanthe aquatica;european poisonous herb with fibrous roots
goat grass;european grass naturalized as a weed in north america. sharp-pointed seeds cause injury when eaten by livestock
kiss me over the garden gate;annual with broadly ovate leaves and slender drooping spikes of crimson flowers. southeastern asia and australia. naturalized in north america
prunus mexicana;small tree of southwestern united states having purplish-red fruit sometimes cultivated as an ornamental for its large leaves
pyrola uniflora;delicate evergreen dwarf herb of north temperate regions having a solitary white terminal flower. sometimes placed in genus pyrola
cowberry;low evergreen shrub of high north temperate regions of europe and asia and america bearing red edible berries
wheat;annual or biennial grass having erect flower spikes and light brown grains
garden sorrel;european sorrel with large slightly acidic sagittate leaves grown throughout north temperate zone for salad and spring greens
lowland fir;lofty fir of the pacific coast of northwestern america having long curving branches and deep green leaves
ledum palustre;bog shrub of northern and central europe and eastern siberia to korea and japan
flightless bird;flightless birds having flat breastbones lacking a keel for attachment of flight muscles: ostriches. cassowaries. emus. moas. rheas. kiwis. elephant birds
butterflyfish;tropical fish with huge fanlike pectoral fins for underwater gliding. unrelated to searobins
grass pea;european annual grown for forage. seeds used for food in india and for stock elsewhere
pseudemys rubriventris;freshwater turtle of chesapeake bay tributaries having red markings on the lower shell
bradypus tridactylus;a sloth that has three long claws on each forefoot
american hellebore;north american plant having large leaves and yellowish green flowers growing in racemes. yields a toxic alkaloid used medicinally
gyromitra esculenta;a poisonous gyromitra. the surface of the fertile body is smooth at first and becomes progressively undulating and wrinkled (but never truly pitted). color varies from dull yellow to brown
slime bacteria;bacteria that form colonies in self-produced slime. inhabit moist soils or decaying plant matter or animal waste
eyra;long-bodied long-tailed tropical american wildcat
salix discolor;small willow of eastern north america having grayish leaves and silky catkins that come before the leaves
spiny puffer;puffers having rigid or erectile spines
aircraft engine;the engine that powers and aircraft
passionflower vine;any of various chiefly tropical american vines some bearing edible fruit
pipal tree;fig tree of india noted for great size and longevity. lacks the prop roots of the banyan
tusseh;oriental moth that produces brownish silk
oncidium papilio;orchid of south america and trinidad having large yellow and reddish-brown flowers. sometimes placed in genus oncidium
griffon vulture;large vulture of southern europe and northern africa having pale plumage with black wings
artemisia annua;wormwood of southeastern europe to iran
quartervine;woody flowering vine of southern united states. stems show a cross in transverse section
botrychium multifidum;european fern with leathery and sparsely hairy fronds
rooster;adult male chicken
senega;perennial bushy herb of central and southern united states having white flowers with green centers and often purple crest. similar to seneca snakeroot
fuchsia;any of various tropical shrubs widely cultivated for their showy drooping purplish or reddish or white flowers. central and south america and new zealand and tahiti
jackdaw;common black-and-gray eurasian bird noted for thievery
nail tailed wallaby;small wallabies with a horny nail on the tip of the tail
eastern indigo snake;a variety of indigo snake
pacific ridley;olive-colored sea turtle of tropical pacific and indian and south atlantic oceans
prionace glauca;slender cosmopolitan, pelagic shark. blue body shades to white belly. dangerous esp. during maritime disasters
lark;any of numerous predominantly old world birds noted for their singing
caffer cat;widely distributed wildcat of africa and asia minor
pinto;a spotted or calico horse or pony
mound builder;large-footed short-winged birds of australasia. build mounds of decaying vegetation to incubate eggs
witch grass;north american grass with slender brushy panicles. often a weed on cultivated land
asclepias curassavica;tropical herb having orange-red flowers followed by pods suggesting a swallow with outspread wings. a weed throughout the tropics
old maid s bonnet;stout perennial of eastern and central north america having palmate leaves and showy racemose blue flowers
paranthias furcifer;deep-sea fish of tropical atlantic
greater celandine;perennial herb with branched woody stock and bright yellow flowers
oxalis caprina;short-stemmed south african plant with bluish flowers
china rose;shrubby chinese rose. ancestor of many cultivated garden roses
heartsease;violet of pacific coast of north america having white petals tinged with yellow and deep violet
time machine;a science fiction machine that is supposed to transport people or objects into the past or the future
textile screw pine;polynesian screw pine
lepiota;any fungus of the genus lepiota
rutabaga plant;plant with a thick bulbous edible yellow root. used as food and animal feed
brush tailed phalanger;bushy-tailed phalanger
dawn horse;earliest horse. extinct primitive dog-sized 4-toed eocene animal
red porgy;food fish of the mediterranean and atlantic coasts of europe and america
crowfoot;any of various plants of the genus ranunculus
sweet gum;a north american tree of the genus liquidambar having prickly spherical fruit clusters and fragrant sap
takeoff rocket;the first stage of a multistage rocket
steamer;an edible clam with thin oval-shaped shell found in coastal regions of the united states and europe
fool s parsley;european weed naturalized in america that resembles parsley but causes nausea and poisoning when eaten
juncus articulatus;rush of australia
pademelon;small reddish-brown wallabies of scrubby areas of australia and new guinea
ribwort;an old world plantain with long narrow ribbed leaves widely established in temperate regions
mountain male fern;a fern of the genus dryopteris
ethiopian banana;large evergreen arborescent herb having huge paddle-shaped leaves and bearing inedible fruit that resemble bananas but edible young flower shoots. sometimes placed in genus musa
mountain rimu;low-growning to prostrate shrub with slender trailing branches. new zealand
minah;tropical asian starlings
scabiosa;any of various plants of the genus scabiosa
platycerium andinum;fern of peru and bolivia
melanerpes erythrocephalus;black-and-white north american woodpecker having a red head and neck
chives;perennial having hollow cylindrical leaves used for seasoning
medusa s head;african dwarf succulent perennial shrub with numerous slender drooping branches
cattleya;any orchid of the genus cattleya characterized by a hood-shaped three-lobed lip enclosing the column. among the most popular and most extravagantly beautiful orchids known
catalufa;brightly colored carnivorous fish of western atlantic and west indies waters
halobacterium;halophiles in saline environments such as the dead sea or salt flats
orbignya spesiosa;tall feather palm of northern brazil with hard-shelled nuts yielding valuable oil and a kind of vegetable ivory
narwal;small arctic whale the male having a long spiral ivory tusk
ageratum;rhizomatous plant of central and southeastern united states and west indies having large showy heads of clear blue flowers. sometimes placed in genus eupatorium
campanula rapunculoides;erect european herb with creeping rootstocks and nodding spikelike racemes of blue to violet flowers
turban squash;squash plants bearing hard-shelled fruit shaped somewhat like a turban with a rounded central portion protruding from the end opposite the stem
bluethroat pikeblenny;found from florida to cuba
dactyloctenium aegypticum;a creeping grass with spikes like fingers
arundo donax;large rhizomatous perennial grasses found by riversides and in ditches having jointed stems and large gray-white feathery panicles
common maidenhair;delicate maidenhair fern with slender shining black leaf stalks. cosmopolitan
oconee bells;plant of southeastern united states having solitary white funnel-shaped flowers flushed with pink and large glossy green leaves that turn bronze-red in fall
flagellate;usually nonphotosynthetic free-living protozoan with whiplike appendages. some pathogens of humans and other animals
vending machine;a slot machine for selling goods
maryland yellowthroat;an american warbler
haplopappus phyllocephalus;annual of southern united states and mexico having bristly leaves and pale yellow flowers
coccyzus erythropthalmus;north american cuckoo. builds a nest and rears its own young
garden strawberry;widely cultivated
progymnosperm;an ancestral fossil type from which modern gymnosperms are thought to have derived
aquila rapax;brownish eagle of africa and parts of asia
spleenwort;any of various chiefly rock-inhabiting ferns of the genus asplenium
lyonia mariana;deciduous shrub of coastal plain of the eastern united states having nodding pinkish-white flowers. poisonous to stock
pteridosperm;an extinct seed-producing fernlike plant of the order cycadofilicales (or group pteridospermae)
cupressus sempervirens;tall eurasian cypress with thin gray bark and ascending branches
lemna trisulca;cosmopolitan in temperate regions except north america
lilium auratum;golden-rayed lily of japan
quandang;australian tree with edible flesh and edible nutlike seed
palma christi;large shrub of tropical africa and asia having large palmate leaves and spiny capsules containing seeds that are the source of castor oil and ricin. widely naturalized throughout the tropics
hypsiprymnodon moschatus;small kangaroo of northeastern australia
sansevieria;grown as a houseplant for its mottled fleshy sword-shaped leaves or as a source of fiber
brookweed;american water pimpernel
mock orange;small shrubby deciduous yellowwood tree of south central united states having spines, glossy dark green leaves and inedible orangelike fruit. its hard orange-colored wood used for bows by native americans. frequently planted as boundary hedge
corvine bird;birds of the crow family
hydrobates pelagicus;sooty black petrel with white markings. of the north atlantic and mediterranean
black sea bass;bluish black-striped sea bass of the atlantic coast of the united states
napaea dioica;tall coarse american herb having palmate leaves and numerous small white dioecious flowers. found wild in most alluvial soils of eastern and central united states
globe mallow;genus of coarse herbs and subshrubs of arid north and south america having pink or scarlet flowers and globose fruits
ragged orchid;fringed orchid of the eastern united states having a greenish flower with the lip deeply lacerate
vespa crabro;european hornet introduced into the united states
thelypteris phegopteris;beech fern of north america and eurasia
alnus rugosa;common shrub of canada and northeastern united states having shoots scattered with rust-colored down
lithops;any plant of the genus lithops native to africa having solitary yellow or white flowers and thick leaves that resemble stones
citrus sinensis;probably native to southern china. widely cultivated as source of table and juice oranges
siskin;small sharp-billed yellow-and-black eurasian finch
mountain swamp gum;medium-sized swamp gum of new south wales and victoria
red berried elder;eurasian shrub
ornithopod dinosaur;bipedal herbivorous dinosaur
mossy saxifrage;tufted or mat-forming perennial of mountains of europe. cultivated for its white flowers
chipping sparrow;small north american finch common in urban areas
wheat flag smut;fungus affecting leaves and stems of wheat
banded palm civet;e indian civet
ixodes pacificus;feeds on dusky-footed woodrat and bites humans. principal vector for lyme disease in western united states especially northern california
amorpha;any plant of the genus amorpha having odd-pinnate leaves and purplish spicate flowers
rhubarb;plants having long green or reddish acidic leafstalks growing in basal clumps. stems (and only the stems) are edible when cooked. leaves are poisonous
dacrydium franklinii;tasmanian timber tree with yellow aromatic wavy-grained wood used for carving and ship building. sometimes placed in genus dacrydium
indian rhubarb;asian herb (himalaya)
mountain laurel;a north american evergreen shrub having glossy leaves and white or rose-colored flowers
old world flycatcher;any of a large group of small songbirds that feed on insects taken on the wing
prickly ash;australian tree having alternate simple leaves (when young they are pinnate with prickly toothed margins) and slender axillary spikes of white flowers
commiphora myrrha;tree of eastern africa and asia yielding myrrh
barnacle;marine crustaceans with feathery food-catching appendages. free-swimming as larvae. as adults form a hard shell and live attached to submerged surfaces
pholiota squarrosoides;a pale buff fungus with tawny scales
old man of the woods;edible mild-tasting mushroom found in coniferous woodlands of eastern north america
salvia officinalis;shrubby plant with aromatic grayish-green leaves used as a cooking herb
katsuwonus pelamis;fish whose flesh is dried and flaked for japanese cookery. may be same species as skipjack tuna
queen triggerfish;tropical atlantic fish
cochineal;mexican red scale insect that feeds on cacti. the source of a red dye
gecko;any of various small chiefly tropical and usually nocturnal insectivorous terrestrial lizards typically with immovable eyelids. completely harmless
sea duck;any of various large diving ducks found along the seacoast: eider. scoter. merganser
allium porrum;plant having a large slender white bulb and flat overlapping dark green leaves. used in cooking. believed derived from the wild allium ampeloprasum
huon pine;tasmanian timber tree with yellow aromatic wavy-grained wood used for carving and ship building. sometimes placed in genus dacrydium
silkweed;any of numerous plants of the genus asclepias having milky juice and pods that split open releasing seeds with downy tufts
agathis lanceolata;new zealand tree with glossy leaves and scaly reddish-brown bark
celery top pine;medium-tall celery pine of tasmania
greenfly;greenish aphid. pest on garden and crop plants
umbrella sedge;african sedge widely cultivated as an ornamental water plant for its terminal umbrellalike cluster of slender grasslike leaves
western spadefoot;of california
pinus pungens;small 2-needled upland pine of the eastern united states (appalachians) having dark brown flaking bark and thorn-tipped cone scales
schlumbergera gaertneri;spring-blooming south american cactus with oblong joints and coral-red flowers. sometimes placed in genus schlumbergera
sour cherry tree;rather small eurasian tree producing red to black acid edible fruit
tardigrade;an arthropod of the division tardigrada
prickleback;small (2-4 inches) pugnacious mostly scaleless spiny-backed fishes of northern fresh and littoral waters having elaborate courtship. subjects of much research
brachychiton populneus;widely distributed tree of eastern australia yielding a tough durable fiber and soft light attractively grained wood. foliage is an important emergency food for cattle
greyhound;a tall slender dog of an ancient breed noted for swiftness and keen sight. used as a racing dog
solanum tuberosum;annual native to south america having underground stolons bearing edible starchy tubers. widely cultivated as a garden vegetable. vines are poisonous
pale chrysanthemum aphid;important pest of chrysanthemums
toadstool;common name for an inedible or poisonous agaric (contrasting with the edible mushroom)
ulmus alata;north american elm having twigs and young branches with prominent corky projections
florida strangler fig;a strangler tree native to southern florida and west indies. begins as an epiphyte eventually developing many trunklike aerial roots and covering enormous areas
creeping soft grass;european perennial grass with soft velvety foliage
nuthatch;any of various small short-tailed sharp-beaked birds that creep on trees and feed on small nuts and insects
castanea pumila;shrubby chestnut tree of southeastern united states having small edible nuts
tortoiseshell turtle;pugnacious tropical sea turtle with a hawk-like beak. source of food and the best tortoiseshell
sneezewort;eurasian herb having loose heads of button-shaped white flowers and long gray-green leaves that cause sneezing when powdered
sheep polypore;a fungus with a whitish often circular cap and a white pore surface and small pores and a white central stalk. found under conifers. edible but not popular
capulin tree;mexican black cherry tree having edible fruit
piping plover;small plover of eastern north america
pasqueflower;any plant of the genus pulsatilla. sometimes included in genus anemone
giant sunflower;very tall american perennial of central and the eastern united states to canada having edible tuberous roots
aztec lily;mexican bulbous herb cultivated for its handsome bright red solitary flower
snake muishond;small slender burrowing muishond with white top of the head
minke whale;small finback of coastal waters of atlantic and pacific
cinnabar;large red-and-black european moth. larvae feed on leaves of ragwort. introduced into united states to control ragwort
sceloglaux albifacies;almost extinct owl of new zealand
needlewood;large bushy shrub with pungent pointed leaves and creamy white flowers. central and eastern australia
naranjilla;small perennial shrub cultivated in uplands of south america for its edible bright orange fruits resembling tomatoes or oranges
piptadenia macrocarpa;brazilian shrub having twice-pinnate leaves and small spicate flowers followed by flat or irregularly torulose pods. sometimes placed in genus piptadenia
euphractus sexcinctus;argentine armadillo with six movable bands and hairy underparts
gray;horse of a light grey or whitish color
tapestry moth;larvae feed on carpets and other woolens
pyrenees daisy;perennial of portugal similar to the oxeye daisy
sanicula arctopoides;sanicle of northwestern united states and british columbia having yellow flowers
betula pubescens;european birch with dull white to pale brown bark and somewhat drooping hairy branches
bonsai;a dwarfed ornamental tree or shrub grown in a tray or shallow pot
red jungle fowl;se asian jungle fowl considered ancestral to domestic fowl
orpin;perennial northern temperate plant with toothed leaves and heads of small purplish-white flowers
equus hemionus;asiatic wild ass
coriander;old world herb with aromatic parsleylike leaves and seed
balloon flower;fragrant puffed-up white to reddish-pink flowers in long narrow clusters on erect stems. arizona to new mexico and utah
casava;any of several plants of the genus manihot having fleshy roots yielding a nutritious starch
yellow chestnut oak;medium-sized deciduous tree of the eastern united states that yields a strong durable wood
fucoid;any of various algae of the family fucaceae
toetoe;tall grass of new zealand grown for plumelike flower heads
saurel;large elongated compressed food fish of european atlantic waters
night snake;nocturnal prowler of western united states and mexico
black bream;important dark-colored edible food and game fish of australia
trachodon;large duck-billed dinosaur of the upper cretaceous
staphylococci;spherical gram-positive parasitic bacteria that tend to form irregular colonies. some cause boils or septicemia or infections
nierembergia frutescens;shrubby chilean herb having bluish-white tubular flowers used as an ornamental
spirea;a japanese shrub that resembles members of the genus spiraea. widely cultivated in many varieties for its dense panicles of flowers in many colors. often forced by florists for easter blooming
tom;male cat
meconopsis betonicifolia;chinese perennial having mauve-pink to bright sky blue flowers in drooping cymes
courlan;wading bird of south and central america
damaliscus lunatus;large south african antelope. considered the swiftest hoofed mammal
phaseolus multiflorus;tropical american high-climbing bean with red flowers and mottled black beans similar to phaseolus_vulgaris but perennial. a preferred food bean in g britain
penstemon rydbergii;plant with whorls of small dark blue-violet flowers. washington to wyoming and south to california and colorado
cleistes divaricata;orchid of northeastern united states with magenta-pink flowers having funnel-shaped lip. sometimes placed in genus pogonia
spodoptera exigua;moth whose larvae are beet armyworms
lanceolate spleenwort;a spleenwort of western europe
rosa canina;prickly wild rose with delicate pink or white scentless flowers. native to europe
paspalum dilatatum;tall tufted perennial tropical american grass naturalized as pasture and forage grass in southern united states
azolla caroliniana;small free-floating aquatic fern from the eastern united states to tropical america. naturalized in western and southern europe
blind snake;wormlike burrowing snake of warm regions having vestigial eyes
caplin;very small northern fish. forage for sea birds and marine mammals and other fishes
strand wolf;of southern africa
comfrey;perennial herbs of europe and iran. make rapidly growing groundcover for shaded areas
velvet flower;young leaves widely used as leaf vegetables. seeds used as cereal
jackass bat;large spotted bat of southwestern united states having enormous ears
enteric bacteria;rod-shaped gram-negative bacteria. most occur normally or pathogenically in intestines of humans and other animals
arrow arum;an aquatic plant of the genus peltandra. north america
saccharum officinarum;tall tropical southeast asian grass having stout fibrous jointed stalks. sap is a chief source of sugar
blue african lily;african plant with bright green evergreen leaves and umbels of many usually deep violet-blue flowers
american sweet chestnut;large tree found from maine to alabama
half snipe;a small short-billed old world snipe
cardium edule;common edible european cockle
mole salamander;brownish-black burrowing salamander of southeastern united states
goldie s fern;north american fern with a blackish lustrous stipe
tadarida brasiliensis;the common freetail bat of southern united states having short velvety fur. migrates south for winter
bullfinch;common european finch mostly black and white with red throat and breast
dentaria diphylla;north american herb with pungent scaly or toothed roots
brain mushroom;a poisonous gyromitra. the surface of the fertile body is smooth at first and becomes progressively undulating and wrinkled (but never truly pitted). color varies from dull yellow to brown
redhead;black-and-white north american woodpecker having a red head and neck
mazzard;wild or seedling sweet cherry used as stock for grafting
apple maggot;larvae bore into and feed on apples
virus;ultramicroscopic infectious agent that replicates itself only within cells of living hosts. many are pathogenic
menziesia ferruginea;straggling shrub of northwestern north america having foliage with a bluish tinge and umbels of small bell-shaped flowers
myxovirus;any of a group of rna viruses including those that cause influenza and mumps
portuguese heath;erect dense shrub native to western iberian peninsula having profuse white or pink flowers. naturalized in southwestern england
stag beetle;the male has branched mandibles resembling antlers
engelmann spruce;tall spruce of rocky mountains and british columbia with blue-green needles and acutely conic crown. wood used for rough lumber and boxes
death cup;extremely poisonous usually white fungus with a prominent cup-shaped base. differs from edible agaricus only in its white gills
lycopodium selago;of northern europe and america. resembling a miniature fir
tanacetum vulgare;common perennial aromatic herb native to eurasia having buttonlike yellow flower heads and bitter-tasting pinnate leaves sometimes used medicinally
new zealand daisybush;bushy new zealand shrub cultivated for its fragrant white flower heads
spring beauty;small slender plant having 1 pair of succulent leaves at midstem and a loose raceme of white or pink or rose bowl-shaped flowers and an edible corm
freshwater clam;bivalve mollusk abundant in rivers of central united states
welsh pony;breed of small ponies originally from wales
california beauty;any of several handsome evergreen shrubs of california and northern mexico having downy lobed leaves and showy yellow flowers
common wolffia;smallest flowering plants known. of the americas
equid;hoofed mammals having slender legs and a flat coat with a narrow mane along the back of the neck
purple loco;tufted locoweed of southwestern united states having purple or pink to white flowers
catostomid;a cypriniform fish of the family catostomidae
silver whiting;a dull silvery whiting of southern atlantic and gulf coasts of the united states
statice;any of various plants of the genus limonium of temperate salt marshes having spikes of whit or mauve flowers
juniper bush;desert shrub of syria and arabia having small white flowers. constitutes the juniper of the old testament. sometimes placed in genus genista
scomber japonicus;small mackerel found nearly worldwide
prince albert s yew;small yew having attractive foliage and partially weeping branches cultivated as an ornamental. mountains of southern chile
ratel;nocturnal badger-like carnivore of wooded regions of africa and southern asia
white violet;short-stemmed violet of eastern north america having fragrant purple-veined white flowers
verbascum phoeniceum;eurasian mullein with showy purple or pink flowers
fumaria sempervirens;glaucous herb of northeastern united states and canada having loose racemes of yellow-tipped pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus fumaria
arceuthobium pusillum;small herb with scalelike leaves on reddish-brown stems and berrylike fruits. parasitic on spruce and larch trees
black necked stilt;stilt of southwestern united states to northern south america having black plumage extending from the head down the back of the neck
silene vulgaris;perennial of arctic europe having large white flowers with inflated calyx
garden pink;any of various flowers of plants of the genus dianthus cultivated for their fragrant flowers
dyers;eurasian perennial herb with hairy divided leaves and yellow flowers. naturalized in north america
currant;any of various deciduous shrubs of the genus ribes bearing currants
hen harrier;common harrier of north america and europe. nests in marshes and open land
scarlet sumac;common nonpoisonous shrub of eastern north america with waxy compound leaves and green paniculate flowers followed by red berries
aroeira blanca;small resinous tree or shrub of brazil
brood hen;a domestic hen ready to brood
tung;chinese tree bearing seeds that yield tung oil
catbird;any of various birds of the australian region whose males build ornamented structures resembling bowers in order to attract females
opuntia lindheimeri;cactus having yellow flowers and purple fruits
pyrophorus noctiluca;tropical american click beetle having bright luminous spots
swanneck;any of several orchids of the genus cycnoches having slender arching columns of flowers suggesting the neck of a swan
pichiciego;very small argentine armadillo with pale silky hair and pink plates on head and neck
dragon tree;tall tree of the canary islands. source of dragon's blood
toad lily;a floating or creeping indian lettuce having terminal racemes of pale rose flowers. wet areas at high elevations of western north america
broom snakeweed;low-growing sticky subshrub of southwestern united states having narrow linear leaves on many slender branches and hundreds of tiny yellow flower heads
sansevieria guineensis;bowstring hemp of south africa
pumpkin;a coarse vine widely cultivated for its non-keeping large pulpy round orange fruit with firm orange skin and numerous seeds. subspecies of cucurbita pepo include the summer squashes and a few autumn squashes
cow nosed ray;large ray found along eastern coast of north america
pine lily;lily of southeastern united states having cup-shaped flowers with deep yellow to scarlet recurved petals
sweet buckeye;a tall and often cultivated buckeye of the central united states
red buckeye;a shrub buckeye of southern united states
lad s love;aromatic herb of temperate eurasia and north africa having a bitter taste used in making the liqueur absinthe
myriapod;general term for any terrestrial arthropod having an elongated body composed of many similar segments: e.g. centipedes and millipedes
hominoid;a primate of the superfamily hominoidea
purple staining cortinarius;a fungus with a reddish purple cap having a smooth slimy surface. close violet gills. all parts stain dark purple when bruised
diapsid;reptile having a pair of openings in the skull behind each eye
trifolium repens;creeping european clover having white to pink flowers and bright green leaves. naturalized in united states. widely grown for forage
powdery mildew;any of various fungi of the genus erysiphe producing powdery conidia on the host surface
red trillium;trillium of northeastern united states with sessile leaves and red or purple flowers having a pungent odor
spadefish;deep-bodied disk-shaped food fish of warmer western atlantic coastal waters
butterfly pea;large-flowered wild twining vine of southeastern and central united states having pale blue flowers
abrocome;ratlike rodent with soft fur and large ears of the andes
african daisy;shrub of southwestern mediterranean region having yellow daisylike flowers
petaurista petaurista;east indian flying squirrel
leptocephalus;slender transparent larva of eels and certain fishes
sand sedge;european maritime sedge naturalized along atlantic coast of united states. rootstock has properties of sarsaparilla
euonymus radicans vegetus;broad and bushy asiatic twining shrub with pinkish fruit. many subspecies or varieties
mollusc;invertebrate having a soft unsegmented body usually enclosed in a shell
nephrolepis pectinata;tropical american fern cultivated for its finely divided grayish-green foliage. west indies and southern mexico to peru and brazil
gentiana lutea;robust european perennial having clusters of yellow flowers
white wolf;wolf of arctic north america having white fur and a black-tipped tail
lenten rose;slightly hairy perennial having deep green leathery leaves and flowers that are ultimately purplish-green
poison ash;smooth american swamp shrub with pinnate leaves and greenish flowers followed by greenish white berries. yields an irritating oil
boatbill;tropical american heron related to night herons
stem lettuce;lettuce valued especially for its edible stems
edmontonia;heavily armored and highly spiked dinosaur with semi-upright posture
chamaea fasciata;small brown bird of california resembling a wren
dog violet;old world leafy-stemmed blue-flowered violet
pitta;any bird of the genus pitta. brilliantly colored chiefly terrestrial birds with short wings and tail and stout bills
black fronted bush shrike;a kind of bush shrike
lichen;any thallophytic plant of the division lichenes. occur as crusty patches or bushy growths on tree trunks or rocks or bare ground etc.
strawberry bush;hardy shrub of southeastern united states having clove-scented wood and fragrant red-brown flowers
nymphalid butterfly;medium to large butterflies found worldwide typically having brightly colored wings and much-reduced nonfunctional forelegs carried folded on the breast
sphaeralcea fasciculata;shrub of coastal ranges of california and baja california having hairy branches and spikes of numerous mauve flowers. sometimes placed in genus_sphaeralcea
syngnathus hildebrandi;small (4 inches) fish found off florida gulf coast
pinicola enucleator;large grosbeak of coniferous forests of old and new worlds
american alligator;large alligator of southeastern united states
dusty miller;shrubby perennial of the canary islands having white flowers and leaves and hairy stems covered with dust-like down. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
pincushion hakea;tall straggling shrub with large globose crimson-yellow flowers. western australia
pouteria zapota;tropical american tree having wood like mahogany and sweet edible egg-shaped fruit. in some classifications placed in the genus calocarpum
launce;very small silvery eellike schooling fishes that burrow into sandy beaches
indian rosewood;east indian tree having a useful dark purple wood
moneran;organisms that typically reproduce by asexual budding or fission and whose nutritional mode is absorption or photosynthesis or chemosynthesis
gastromycete;any fungus of the class gasteromycetes
cyperus papyrus;tall sedge of the nile valley yielding fiber that served many purposes in historic times
alytes obstetricans;european toad whose male carries the fertilized eggs wrapped around its hind legs until they hatch
erythrina vespertilio;prickly australian coral tree having soft spongy wood
spirogyra;freshwater algae consisting of minute filaments containing spiral chlorophyll bands
pipsissewa;any of several plants of the genus chimaphila
althea;any of various plants of the genus althaea. similar to but having smaller flowers than genus alcea
lysimachia ciliatum;of north america
mentha citrata;mint with leaves having perfume like that of the bergamot orange
calyptridium umbellatum;pink clusters of densely packed flowers on prostrate stems resemble upturned pads of cats' feet. grow in coniferous forests of western north america. sometimes placed in genus calyptridium
bocconia;small central american tree having loose racemes of purple-tinted green flowers
silver perch;small silvery food and game fish of eastern united states streams
sitta canadensis;bluish-gray nuthatch with reddish breast. of northern coniferous forests
thickhead;australian and southeastern asian birds with a melodious whistling call
blackthorn;erect and almost thornless american hawthorn with somewhat pear-shaped berries
ladies;an orchid of the genus spiranthes having slender often twisted spikes of white flowers
black walnut tree;north american walnut tree with hard dark wood and edible nut
ground sloth;gigantic extinct terrestrial sloth-like mammal of the pliocene and pleistocene in america
flame tree;a terrestrial evergreen shrub or small tree of western australia having brilliant yellow-orange flowers. parasitic on roots of grasses
stray;homeless cat
dicamptodon;salamanders found near cold streams throughout the year
thorn apple;any of several plants of the genus datura
spindle tree;any shrubby trees or woody vines of the genus euonymus having showy usually reddish berries
capra falconeri;large himalayan goat with large spiraled horns
caranx hippos;fish of western atlantic and gulf of mexico
araucaria;any of several tall south american or australian trees with large cones and edible seeds
artemisia campestris;european wormwood similar to common wormwood in its properties
rockfoil;any of various plants of the genus saxifraga
tanner s cassia;evergreen indian shrub with vivid yellow flowers whose bark is used in tanning. sometimes placed in genus cassia
pyralid moth;usually tropical slender-bodied long-legged moth whose larvae are crop pests
cownose ray;large ray found along eastern coast of north america
wood widgeon;showy north american duck that nests in hollow trees
fleawort;plantain of mediterranean regions whose seeds swell and become gelatinous when moist and are used as a mild laxative
yorkshire fog;tall european perennial grass having a velvety stem. naturalized in united states and used for forage
pine hyacinth;erect clematis of florida having pink to purple flowers. sometimes placed in genus viorna
anasa tristis;large black american bug that sucks sap of vines of the gourd family
yorkshire terrier;very small breed having a long glossy coat of bluish-gray and tan
amazon;mainly green tropical american parrots
field mouse ear;densely tufted perennial chickweed of north temperate zone
corn chamomile;european white-flowered weed naturalized in north america
black pine;tall symmetrical pine of western north america having long blue-green needles in bunches of 3 and elongated cones on spreading somewhat pendulous branches. sometimes classified as a variety of ponderosa pine
palometa;smaller than florida pompano. common in west indies
geothlypis trichas;an american warbler
caryophyllaceous plant;a plant of the family caryophyllaceae
setter;a long-haired dog formerly trained to crouch on finding game but now to point
swamphen;any of various small aquatic birds of the genus gallinula distinguished from rails by a frontal shield and a resemblance to domestic hens
chinese parasol;deciduous tree widely grown in southern united states as an ornamental for its handsome maplelike foliage and long racemes of yellow-green flowers followed by curious leaflike pods
peanut vine;widely cultivated american plant cultivated in tropical and warm regions. showy yellow flowers on stalks that bend over to the soil so that seed pods ripen underground
carnivorous plant;plants adapted to attract and capture and digest primarily insects but also other small animals
talipot;tall palm of southern india and sri lanka with gigantic leaves used as umbrellas and fans or cut into strips for writing paper
star magnolia;deciduous shrubby magnolia from japan having fragrant white starlike flowers blooming before leaves unfold. grown as an ornamental in united states
thevetia peruviana;tropical american shrub or small tree having glossy dark green leaves and fragrant saffron yellow to orange or peach- colored flowers. all parts highly poisonous
medicago intertexta;an annual of the mediterranean area having spiny seed pods and leaves with dark spots
razor billed auk;black-and-white north atlantic auk having a compressed sharp-edged bill
sebastodes caurinus;of north american pacific coastal waters
salix lasiolepis;shrubby willow of the western united states
petunia axillaris;annual herb having large nocturnally fragrant buff-white flowers
pimpernel;european garden herb with purple-tinged flowers and leaves that are sometimes used for salads
african gray;commonly domesticated gray parrot with red-and-black tail and white face. native to equatorial africa
sea snake;any of numerous venomous aquatic viviparous snakes having a fin-like tail. of warm littoral seas. feed on fish which they immobilize with quick-acting venom
loganberry;red-fruited bramble native tostates (oregon to baja california)
chrysanthemum dog;breed of medium-sized terriers bred in tibet resembling old english sheepdogs with fluffy curled tails
oxen;domesticated bovine animals as a group regardless of sex or age: 'so many head of cattle'. 'wait till the cows come home'. 'seven thin and ill-favored kine'- bible. 'a team of oxen'
blood twig;european deciduous shrub turning red in autumn having dull white flowers
caranx crysos;fish of western atlantic: cape cod to brazil
marco polo s sheep;asiatic wild sheep with exceptionally large horns. sometimes considered a variety of the argali (or ovis ammon)
greenling;food fish of the northern pacific
doodlebug;the larva of an ant lion or of any of several other insects
common tarweed;california annual having red-brown spots near the base of its yellow flower rays
thysanuron;primitive wingless insects: bristletail
brittlebush;fragrant rounded shrub of southwestern united states and adjacent mexico having brittle stems and small crowded blue-green leaves and yellow flowers. produces a resin used in incense and varnish and in folk medicine
trichostema lanceolatum;aromatic plant of western united states
stylus printer;a printer in which each character is represented by a pattern of dots
darlingtonia californica;marsh or bog herb having solitary pendulous yellow-green flowers and somewhat twisted pitchers with broad wings below
grackle;long-tailed american blackbird having iridescent black plumage
otterhound;hardy british hound having long pendulous ears and a thick coarse shaggy coat with an oily undercoat. bred for hunting otters
duck billed dinosaur;any of numerous large bipedal ornithischian dinosaurs having a horny duck-like bill and webbed feet. may have been partly aquatic
salmo salar;found in northern coastal atlantic waters or tributaries. adults do not die after spawning
wolverine;wolverine of northern eurasia
conferva;any of various algae of the genus tribonema. algae with branching filaments that form scum in still or stagnant fresh water
flatworm;parasitic or free-living worms having a flattened body
shorttail weasel;mustelid of northern hemisphere in its white winter coat
bedlington terrier;a light terrier groomed to resemble a lamb
alisma plantago aquatica;marsh plant having clusters of small white or pinkish flowers and broad pointed or rounded leaves
congo eel;aquatic eel-shaped salamander having two pairs of very small feet. of still muddy waters in the southern united states
pitcher sage;california plant with woolly stems and leaves and large white flowers
throwback;an organism that has the characteristics of a more primitive type of that organism
lesser twayblade;orchid having two triangular leaves and a short lax raceme of green to rust-colored flowers with the lip flushed mauve. europe and asia and north america and greenland
algeripithecus minutus;tiny (150 to 300 grams) extinct primate of 46 to 50 million years ago. fossils found in algeria. considered by some authorities the leading candidate for the first anthropoid
flame nettle;any of various old world tropical plants of the genus coleus having multicolored decorative leaves and spikes of blue flowers
bog aster;a variety of aster
hylophylax naevioides;a kind of antbird
blueberry bush;any of numerous shrubs of the genus vaccinium bearing blueberries
potato bean;twining plant of amazon basin having large edible roots
zanthoxylum clava herculis;densely spiny ornamental of southeastern united states and west indies
ledum groenlandicum;evergreen shrub of eastern north america having white or creamy bell-shaped flowers and dark green hairy leaves used for tea during american revolution
lemon balm;bushy perennial old world mint having small white or yellowish flowers and fragrant lemon-flavored leaves. a garden escapee in northern europe and north america
pacific sturgeon;food and game fish of marine and fresh waters of northwestern coast of north america
tumbleweed;prickly bushy eurasian plant. a troublesome weed in central and western united states
lake herring;important food fish of cold deep lakes of north america
aralia;any of various plants of the genus aralia. often aromatic plants having compound leaves and small umbellate flowers
texas chachalaca;of mexico and texas
teazel;any of several herbs of the genus dipsacus native to the old world having flower heads surrounded by spiny bracts
cypripedium album;pale pink wild orchid of northeastern america having an inflated pouchlike lip
garden huckleberry;improved garden variety of black nightshade having small edible orange or black berries
water bug;a true bug: large aquatic bug adapted to living in or on the surface of water
lophophora williamsii;a small spineless globe-shaped cactus. source of mescal buttons
mollusk;invertebrate having a soft unsegmented body usually enclosed in a shell
hind;female red deer
narrow leaf penstemon;plant having small narrow leaves and blue-violet flowers in long open clusters. utah and colorado to new mexico and arizona
orcinus orca;predatory black-and-white toothed whale with large dorsal fin. common in cold seas
adder s tongue fern;ferns with fertile spikes shaped like a snake's tongue
acoustic gramophone;an antique record player. the sound of the vibrating needle is amplified acoustically
italian woodbine;deciduous climbing shrub with fragrant yellow-white flowers in axillary whorls
rose periwinkle;commonly cultivated old world woody herb having large pinkish to red flowers
elsholtzia;any of various aromatic herbs of the genus elsholtzia having blue or purple flowers in one-sided spikes
tree creeper;any of various small insectivorous birds of the northern hemisphere that climb about on trees
inkberry;evergreen holly of eastern north america with oblong leathery leaves and small black berries
japanese oak;oak with moderately light fine-grained wood. japan
jujube;spiny tree having dark red edible fruits
river horse;massive thick-skinned herbivorous animal living in or around rivers of tropical africa
solan;very large white gannet with black wing tips
picea pungens;tall spruce with blue-green needles and dense conic crown. older trees become columnar with lower branches sweeping downward
squirrelfish;similar to sea bream. small spiny-finned fish found in bays along the southeastern coast of the united states
purple milk vetch;perennial of southern and western europe having dense racemes of purple or violet flowers
neritid gastropod;operculate seasnail of coastal waters with a short spiral shell
maxillaria;any of numerous orchids of the genus maxillaria often cultivated for their large brilliantly colored solitary flowers
euglenophyte;marine and freshwater green or colorless flagellate organism
aframomum melegueta;west african plant bearing pungent peppery seeds
bufo debilis;small green or yellow-green toad with small black bars and stripes
piglet;a young pig
wake robin;common american spring-flowering woodland herb having sheathing leaves and an upright club-shaped spadix with overarching green and purple spathe producing scarlet berries
ant lion;winged insect resembling a dragonfly. the larvae (doodlebugs) dig conical pits where they wait to catch e.g. ants
lotus americanus;north american annual with red or rose-colored flowers
stropharia ambigua;a gilled fungus with a long stalk and a yellow slimy cap from which fragments of the broken veil hang. gills are initially white but become dark brown as spores are released
common polypody;mat-forming lithophytic or terrestrial fern with creeping rootstocks and large pinnatifid fronds found throughout north america and europe and africa and east asia
indian rhubarb;rhizomatous perennial herb with large dramatic peltate leaves and white to bright pink flowers in round heads on leafless stems. colonizes stream banks in the california sierra nevada
hand fern;tropical american fern with coarsely lobed to palmatifid fronds
weed;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
dacrycarpus dacrydioides;new zealand evergreen valued for its light easily worked wood
wreckfish;brown fish of the atlantic and mediterranean found around rocks and shipwrecks
wisteria;any flowering vine of the genus wisteria
big eyed scad;of atlantic coastal waters. commonly used for bait
angel shark;sharks with broad flat bodies and winglike pectoral fins but that swim the way sharks do
garden pepper cress;annual herb used as salad green and garnish
zenaidura macroura;wild dove of the united states having a mournful call
american cress;of southwestern europe. cultivated in florida
oriental spruce;evergreen tree of the caucasus and asia minor used as an ornamental having pendulous branchlets
leptodactylid frog;toothed frogs: terrestrial or aquatic or arboreal
hermannia verticillata;african shrub having decumbent stems and slender yellow honey-scented flowers either solitary or in pairs
lesser yellow trefoil;clover native to ireland with yellowish flowers. often considered the true or original shamrock
marijuana;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
melursus ursinus;common coarse-haired long-snouted bear of south-central asia
english lady crab;crab of the english coasts
cedar mahogany;african tree having rather lightweight cedar-scented wood varying in color from pink to reddish brown
bitter hickory;hickory of the eastern united states having a leaves with 7 or 9 leaflets and thin-shelled very bitter nuts
india rubber tree;large tropical asian tree frequently dwarfed as a houseplant. source of assam rubber
sabine pine;medium-sized 5-needled pine of southwestern california having long cylindrical cones
grape phylloxera;destructive to various grape plants
sand shark;shallow-water shark with sharp jagged teeth found on both sides of atlantic. sometimes dangerous to swimmers
cetraria islandica;lichen with branched flattened partly erect thallus that grows in mountainous and arctic regions. used as a medicine or food for humans and livestock. a source of glycerol
mustard tree;evergreen south american shrub naturalized in united states. occasionally responsible for poisoning livestock
silvervine;ornamental vine of eastern asia having yellow edible fruit and leaves with silver-white markings
pacific hemlock;tall evergreen of western north america. commercially important timber tree
love apple;native to south america. widely cultivated in many varieties
tenrec ecaudatus;prolific animal that feeds chiefly on earthworms
puka;south american shrub or small tree having long shining evergreen leaves and panicles of green or yellow flowers
glacier lily;dogtooth violet of western north america having bright yellow flowers
rainbow trout;found in pacific coastal waters and streams from lower california to alaska
wolfsbane;poisonous eurasian perennial herb with broad rounded leaves and yellow flowers and fibrous rootstock
apple tree;any tree of the genus malus especially those bearing firm rounded edible fruits
musk mallow;erect old world perennial with faintly musk-scented foliage and white or pink flowers. adventive in united states
matilija poppy;tall branching subshrub of california and mexico often cultivated for its silvery-blue foliage and large fragrant white flowers
flycatcher;any of a large group of small songbirds that feed on insects taken on the wing
fraxinus caroliniana;small ash of swampy areas of southeastern united states
burr oak;medium to large deciduous oak of central and eastern north america with ovoid acorns deeply immersed in large fringed cups. yields tough close-grained wood
grinder;a machine that tools or polishes metal
puffinus puffinus;small black-and-white shearwater common in the eastern north atlantic
sardine;small fishes found in great schools along coasts of europe. smaller and rounder than herring
white bellied swallow;bluish-green-and-white north american swallow. nests in tree cavities
sensitive pea;tropical american plant having leaflets somewhat sensitive to the touch. sometimes placed in genus cassia
crossbreed;an offspring of genetically dissimilar parents or stock. especially offspring produced by breeding plants or animals of different varieties or breeds or species
tragulus javanicus;indo-malayan chevrotain somewhat larger than the kanchil
sea horse;small fish with horselike heads bent sharply downward and curled tails. swim in upright position
coco de macao;tall feather palm of northern brazil with hard-shelled nuts yielding valuable oil and a kind of vegetable ivory
lionet;a small or young lion
starnose mole;amphibious mole of eastern north america having pink fleshy tentacles around the nose
dwarf phlox;low tufted perennial phlox with needlelike evergreen leaves and pink or white flowers. native to united states and widely cultivated as a ground cover
citrophilous mealybug;destructive esp. to citrus
fall dandelion;fall-blooming european herb with a yellow flower. naturalized in the united states
leucothoe;any plant of the genus leucothoe. grown for their beautiful white flowers. glossy foliage contains a poisonous substance similar to that found in genus kalmia
valve in head engine;having both inlet and exhaust valves located in the cylinder head
smilo grass;perennial mountain rice native to mediterranean region and introduced into north america
citrus mealybug;feeds on a wide variety of cultivated plants but esp. destructive to citrus
b;aerobic rod-shaped spore-producing bacterium. often occurring in chainlike formations
smooth green snake;of western and central united states
red pimpernel;herb with scarlet or white or purple blossoms that close at approach of rainy weather
leopardbane;any of several herbs of the genus dononicum having alternate often clasping stem leaves cultivated for their long stalks of yellow flower heads
lepidopterous insect;insect that in the adult state has four wings more or less covered with tiny scales
giant willowherb;tall north american perennial with creeping rootstocks and narrow leaves and spikes of pinkish-purple flowers occurring in great abundance in burned-over areas or recent clearings. an important honey plant
closed gentian;similar to gentiana andrewsii but with larger flowers
queensland nut;bushy tree with pink to purple flowers
athrotaxis selaginoides;evergreen of tasmanian mountains having sharp-pointed leaves the curve inward
sea poker;small slender fish (to 8 inches) with body covered by bony plates. chiefly of deeper north pacific waters
grainy club mushrooms;any of various mushrooms of the class ascomycete
lacepod;annual herb having pinnatifid basal leaves and slender racemes of small white flowers followed by one-seeded winged silicles
black stem spleenwort;fern of tropical america: from southern united states to west indies and mexico to brazil
progne subis;large north american martin of which the male is blue-black
dinosaur;any of numerous extinct terrestrial reptiles of the mesozoic era
coelophysis;one of the oldest known dinosaurs. late triassic. cannibalistic
weigela;deciduous shrub widely cultivated for its white or pink or red flowers
ribes grossularia;spiny eurasian shrub having greenish purple-tinged flowers and ovoid yellow-green or red-purple berries
lama guanicoe;wild llama
damaraland mole rat;colonial mole_rat of western africa. similar to naked mole rat
great blue heron;large american heron having bluish-gray plumage
burmeisteria retusa;of southern south america
sable antelope;large black east african antelope with sharp back-curving horns
prairie sage;perennial cottony-white herb of southwestern united states
cotoneaster;any shrub of the genus cotoneaster: erect or creeping shrubs having richly colored autumn foliage and many small white to pinkish flowers followed by tiny red or black fruits
rose pink;pink-flowered marsh plant of the eastern united states
marsupial rat;any of numerous small sharp-nosed insectivorous marsupials superficially resembling mice or rats
yak;large long-haired wild ox of tibet often domesticated
inky cap;having a cap that melts into an inky fluid after spores have matured
hedgehog;small nocturnal old world mammal covered with both hair and protective spines
tineid;small yellowish moths whose larvae feed on wool or fur
virginia bluebell;smooth erect herb of eastern north america having entire leaves and showy blue flowers that are pink in bud
cypre;large tropical american tree of the genus cordia grown for its abundant creamy white flowers and valuable wood
game;animal hunted for food or sport
channel cat;freshwater food fish common throughout central united states
marguerite daisy;perennial subshrub of the canary islands having usually pale yellow daisylike flowers. often included in genus chrysanthemum
urial;bearded reddish sheep of southern asia
scaphopod;burrowing marine mollusk
purple willow;eurasian osier having reddish or purple twigs and bark rich in tannin
bella sombra;fast-growing herbaceous evergreen tree of south america having a broad trunk with high water content and dark green oval leaves
dipladenia boliviensis;shrubby climber having glossy leaves and white funnel-shaped flowers with yellow throats
red underwing;moth having dull forewings and red-marked hind wings
winter fern;large branching biennial herb native to eurasia and africa and adventive in north america having large fernlike leaves and white flowers. usually found in damp habitats. all parts extremely poisonous
mountain spleenwort;a spleenwort of eastern north america
western lowland gorilla;a kind of gorilla
crinkle root;north american herb with pungent scaly or toothed roots
euglena;minute single-celled green freshwater organism having a single flagella. often classed as algae
conium maculatum;large branching biennial herb native to eurasia and africa and adventive in north america having large fernlike leaves and white flowers. usually found in damp habitats. all parts extremely poisonous
spring heath;dwarf european shrub with very early-blooming bell-shaped red flowers
dicentra canadensis;american plant with cream-colored flowers and tuberous roots resembling kernels of corn
thallophyte;any of a group of cryptogamic organisms consisting principally of a thallus and thus showing no differentiation into stem and root and leaf
begonia semperflorens;hybrid fibrous-rooted begonia having broad-ovate green to bronze- or black-red leaves and small clusters of white or pink or red flowers. widely used as a bedding plant
dwarf banana;low-growing asian banana tree cultivated especially in the west indies for its clusters of edible yellow fruit
gray wolf;brindled gray wolf of forested northern regions of north america
kaffir corn;important for human and animal food. growth habit and stem form similar to indian corn but having sawtooth-edged leaves
our lord s candle;yucca of southwestern united states and mexico with a tall spike of creamy white flowers
lychins floscuculi;common perennial native to europe and western asia having usually pink flowers with ragged petals
bittersweet;poisonous perennial old world vine having violet flowers and oval coral-red berries. widespread weed in north america
hydrophyte;a plant that grows partly or wholly in water whether rooted in the mud, as a lotus, or floating without anchorage, as the water hyacinth
colubrid;mostly harmless temperate-to-tropical terrestrial or arboreal or aquatic snakes
borzoi;tall fast-moving dog breed
common wormwood;aromatic herb of temperate eurasia and north africa having a bitter taste used in making the liqueur absinthe
mouthbreeder;any of various fishes that carry their eggs and their young in their mouths
quercus rubra;large symmetrical deciduous tree with rounded crown widely distributed in eastern north america. has large leaves with triangular spiny tipped lobes and coarse-grained wood less durable than that of white oaks
bladder fucus;common black rockweed used in preparing kelp and as manure
ringtail;monkey of central and south america having a cowl of thick hair on the head
doberman;medium large breed of german origin with a glossy black-and-tan coat used as a watchdog
agave sisalana;mexican or west indian plant with large fleshy leaves yielding a stiff fiber used in e.g. rope
hypericum hypericoides;low shrubby plant having yellow flowers with four petals arranged in a cross. bermuda and southeastern united states to west indies and eastern mexico
pine siskin;small finch of north american coniferous forests
camelus bactrianus;two-humped camel of the cold deserts of central asia
bramble bush;any prickly shrub of the genus rubus bearing edible aggregate fruits
solandra guttata;mexican evergreen climbing plant having large solitary funnel-shaped fragrant yellow flowers with purple-brown ridges in the throat
wild duck;an undomesticated duck (especially a mallard)
agrostis nebulosa;spanish grass with light feathery panicles grown for dried bouquets
chrysobalanus icaco;small tropical american tree bearing edible plumlike fruit
whiptail lizard;any of numerous very agile and alert new world lizards
wire haired fox terrier;a fox terrier with wiry hair
fairy cup;miterwort of northeastern north america usually with two opposite leaves on erect flowering stems that terminate in erect racemes of white flowers
peromyscus eremicus;burrowing mouse of desert areas of southwestern united states
bush nasturtium;nonclimbing annual with deep yellow flowers smaller than the common garden nasturtium
lonicera albiflora;bushy honeysuckle with twining branches and white or yellow-white flowers. southern united states
herring gull;large gull of the northern hemisphere
swamp laurel;shrub or small tree having rather small fragrant white flowers. abundant in southeastern united states
razorfish;any of several small wrasses with compressed sharp-edged heads of the west indies and mediterranean
mouse ear chickweed;any of various plants related to the common chickweed
kaoliang;sorghums of china and manchuria having small white or brown grains (used for food) and dry pithy stalks (used for fodder, fuel and thatching)
harlequin snake;any of several venomous new world snakes brilliantly banded in red and black and either yellow or white. widely distributed in south and central america
leopard lily;lily of southeastern united states having cup-shaped flowers with deep yellow to scarlet recurved petals
swietinia mahogani;mahogany tree of west indies
ascidian tadpole;free-swimming larva of ascidians. they have a tail like a tadpole that contains the notochord
honduras mahogany;an important central american mahogany tree
columba livia;pale gray eurasian pigeon having black-striped wings from which most domestic species are descended
wire haired terrier;a terrier with wiry hair
tomtit;widely distributed european titmouse with bright cobalt blue wings and tail and crown of the head
salmonella typhosa;a form of salmonella that causes typhoid fever
viola pubescens;violet of eastern north america having softly pubescent leaves and stems and clear yellow flowers with brown-purple veins
aetobatus narinari;ray with back covered with white or yellow spots. widely distributed in warm seas
agathis robusta;australian timber tree resembling the kauri but having wood much lighter in weight and softer
meadow cranesbill;tall perennial cranesbill with paired violet-blue axillary flowers. native to northern parts of old world and naturalized in north america
edible asparagus;plant whose succulent young shoots are cooked and eaten as a vegetable
protium heptaphyllum;tropical american tree
dulse;coarse edible red seaweed
orchis;any of various deciduous terrestrial orchids having fleshy tubers and flowers in erect terminal racemes
ringworm bush;tropical shrub (especially of americas) having yellow flowers and large leaves whose juice is used as a cure for ringworm and poisonous bites. sometimes placed in genus cassia
black grouse;grouse of which the male is bluish-black
vibrio;curved rodlike motile bacterium
corakan;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
roller;old world bird that tumbles or rolls in flight. related to kingfishers
blewits;edible agaric that is pale lilac when young. has a smooth moist cap
hoary willow;north american shrub with whitish canescent leaves
sarcodine;protozoa that move and capture food by forming pseudopods
pinwheel;perennial subshrub of tenerife having leaves in pinwheellike rosettes
tagasaste;shrub of canary islands having bristle-tipped oblanceolate leaves. used as cattle fodder
malva sylvestris;erect or decumbent old world perennial with axillary clusters of rosy-purple flowers. introduced in united states
begonia tuberhybrida;any of numerous hybrid begonias having tuberous roots and variously colored flowers
lowbush penstemon;low bushy plant with large showy pale lavender or blue-violet flowers in narrow clusters at ends of stems
vegetable sponge;the bathroom loofah
white clover;creeping european clover having white to pink flowers and bright green leaves. naturalized in united states. widely grown for forage
lolium multiflorum;european grass much used for hay and in united states also for turf and green manure
st andrews s cross;shrubby plant having yellow to apricot flowers with four petals arranged in a cross. southeastern united states: new york to texas
coast white cedar;slow-growing medium-sized cedar of east coast of the united states. resembles american arborvitae
sesbania;any of various plants of the genus sesbania having pinnate leaves and large showy pealike flowers
budgerigar;small australian parakeet usually light green with black and yellow markings in the wild but bred in many colors
mad apple;hairy upright herb native to southeastern asia but widely cultivated for its large glossy edible fruit commonly used as a vegetable
spear thistle;european thistle with rather large heads and prickly leaves. extensively naturalized as a weed in the united states
pogge;north atlantic sea poacher
hyphantria cunea;a variety of webworm
eutherian mammal;mammals having a placenta. all mammals except monotremes and marsupials
spiny dogfish;small bottom-dwelling dogfishes
wren tit;small brown bird of california resembling a wren
hornwort;liverworts with slender hornlike 2-valved capsules
four footed butterfly;medium to large butterflies found worldwide typically having brightly colored wings and much-reduced nonfunctional forelegs carried folded on the breast
woolly monkey;large monkeys with dark skin and woolly fur of the amazon and orinoco basins
lamp shell;marine animal with bivalve shell having a pair of arms bearing tentacles for capturing food. found worldwide
flower;a plant cultivated for its blooms or blossoms
american shrew mole;grayish-black shrew mole of the united states and canada
stinkweed;foetid eurasian weed having round flat pods. naturalized throughout north america
surffish;small to medium-sized shallow-water fishes of the north american pacific coast
moorgame;reddish-brown grouse of upland moors of great britain
cow parsley;coarse erect biennial old world herb introduced as a weed in eastern north america
basket oak;medium to large deciduous tree of the eastern united states. its durable wood is used as timber or split and woven into baskets or chair seats
asclepias subverticillata;milkweed of southwestern united states and mexico. poisonous to livestock
animalcule;microscopic organism such as an amoeba or paramecium
monomorium minimum;tiny glossy black ant. nests outdoors but invades houses for food
archosaurian reptile;extinct reptiles including: dinosaurs. plesiosaurs. pterosaurs. ichthyosaurs. thecodonts
muntingia calabura;a fast-growing tropical american evergreen having white flowers and white fleshy edible fruit. bark yields a silky fiber used in cordage and wood is valuable for staves
venus maidenhair;delicate maidenhair fern with slender shining black leaf stalks. cosmopolitan
virginia chain fern;north american fern
sarcocystieian;parasite of the muscles of vertebrates
golden groundsel;weedy herb of the eastern united states to texas having golden-yellow flowers. sometimes becomes invasive. sometimes placed in genus senecio
panthera leo;large gregarious predatory feline of africa and india having a tawny coat with a shaggy mane in the male
lemon;a small evergreen tree that originated in asia but is widely cultivated for its fruit
pepperidge;columnar tree of eastern north america having horizontal limbs and small leaves that emerge late in spring and have brilliant color in early fall
winter cherry;small south american shrub cultivated as a houseplant for its abundant ornamental but poisonous red or yellow cherry-sized fruit
hogg;a sheep up to the age of one year. one yet to be sheared
ixodid;ticks having a hard shield on the back and mouth parts that project from the head
holstein friesian;a breed of dairy cattle from northern holland
seabird;a bird that frequents coastal waters and the open ocean: gulls. pelicans. gannets. cormorants. albatrosses. petrels. etc.
narcissus jonquilla;widely cultivated ornamental plant native to southern europe but naturalized elsewhere having fragrant yellow or white clustered flowers
paca;large burrowing rodent of south and central america. highly esteemed as food
curly grass;rare small fern of northeastern north america having numerous slender spiraling fronds and forming dense tufts
islay;california evergreen wild plum with spiny leathery leaves and white flowers
tanacetum parthenium;bushy aromatic european perennial herb having clusters of buttonlike white-rayed flower heads. valued traditionally for medicinal uses. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
sophora secundiflora;shrub or small tree having pinnate leaves poisonous to livestock and dense racemes of intensely fragrant blue flowers and red beans
simarouba amara;tree of the amazon valley yielding a light brittle timber locally regarded as resistant to insect attack
crataegus aestivalis;hawthorn of southern united states bearing juicy acid scarlet fruit often used in jellies or preserves
thermoacidophile;archaebacteria that thrive in strongly acidic environments at high temperatures
yellow throated marten;large yellow and black marten of s china and burma
pacific tripletail;tripletail found in the pacific
sweet almond;small bushy deciduous tree native to asia and north africa having pretty pink blossoms and highly prized edible nuts enclosed in a hard green hull. cultivated in southern australia and california
ochroma lagopus;forest tree of lowland central america having a strong very light wood. used for making floats and rafts and in crafts
hercules  club;densely spiny ornamental of southeastern united states and west indies
smallmouthed bass;a variety of black bass. the angle of the jaw falls below the eye
appaloosa;a hardy breed developed in western north america and characteristically having a spotted rump
nodding onion;widely distributed north american wild onion with white to rose flowers
elephant s foot;south african vine having a massive rootstock covered with deeply fissured bark
western hemlock;tall evergreen of western north america. commercially important timber tree
blue;any of numerous small chiefly blue butterflies of the family lycaenidae
common eland;dark fawn-colored eland of south and east africa
ixobrychus exilis;small american bittern
limulus polyphemus;large marine arthropod of the american atlantic coast having a domed horseshoe-shaped carapace and stiff pointed tail. a living fossil related to the wood louse
rush rose;woody yellow-flowered perennial of southeastern united states
piked whale;small finback of coastal waters of atlantic and pacific
alpinia officinalis;chinese perennial with pyramidal racemes of rose-veined white flowers and pungent aromatic roots used medicinally and as flavoring
muscadine;native grape of southeastern united states. origin of many cultivated varieties
acocanthera spectabilis;medium-sized shrubby tree of south africa having thick leathery evergreen leaves and white or pink flowers and globose usually two-seeded purplish black fruits
forficula auricularia;sometimes destructive to cultivated bulbs
senna alata;tropical shrub (especially of americas) having yellow flowers and large leaves whose juice is used as a cure for ringworm and poisonous bites. sometimes placed in genus cassia
aquatic bird;wading and swimming and diving birds of either fresh or salt water
lupinus subcarnosus;low-growing annual herb of southwestern united states (texas) having silky foliage and blue flowers
gas engine;an internal-combustion engine similar to a gasoline engine but using natural gas instead of gasoline vapor
spongillafly;hairy-bodied insect whose larvae feed on freshwater sponges
red drum;large edible fish found off coast of united states from massachusetts to mexico
golden shiner;shiner of eastern north america having golden glints. sometimes also called 'bream'
creeping buttercup;perennial european herb with long creeping stolons
pink sand verbena;prostrate herb having heads of deep pink to white flowers. found in coastal dunes from british columbia to baja california
eupatorium cannabinum;coarse european herb with palmately-divided leaves and clusters of small reddish-purple flower heads
elapid;any of numerous venomous front-fanged snakes of warmer parts of both hemispheres
whipple s penstemon;wine-lavender to black-purple flowers in several clusters on the upper half of leafy stems. montana south through the rocky mountain regions to arizona and new mexico
clematis versicolor;woody vine of the southern united states having purple or blue flowers with leathery recurved sepals
hart s tongue fern;common epiphytic or sometimes terrestrial fern having pale yellow-green strap-shaped leaves. florida to west indies and mexico and south to uruguay
white footed mouse;american woodland mouse with white feet and underparts
bee balm;perennial aromatic herb of eastern north america having variously colored tubular flowers in dense showy heads
grus americana;rare north american crane having black-and-white plumage and a trumpeting call
dogtooth;perennial woodland spring-flowering plant. widely cultivated
crescentia cujete;tropical american evergreen that produces large round gourds
cape kafferboom;small semi-evergreen broad-spreading tree of eastern south africa with orange-scarlet flowers and small coral-red seeds. yields a light soft wood used for fence posts or shingles
threadfish;fish having greatly elongated front rays on dorsal and anal fins
galeocerdo cuvieri;large dangerous warm-water shark with striped or spotted body
long fin tunny;large pelagic tuna the source of most canned tuna. reaches 93 pounds and has long pectoral fins. found worldwide in tropical and temperate waters
white lily;white egyptian lotus: water lily of egypt to southeastern africa. held sacred by the egyptians
nile crocodile;a dangerous crocodile widely distributed in africa
spiranthes romanzoffiana;orchid having dense clusters of gently spiraling creamy white flowers with 2 upper petals forming a hood. western north america
gopherwood;small handsome round-headed deciduous tree having showy white flowers in terminal clusters and heavy hardwood yielding yellow dye
cottonwick;of warm atlantic waters
phalaris tuberosa;perennial grass of australia and south africa. introduced in north america as forage grass
maccaroni wheat;wheat with hard dark-colored kernels high in gluten and used for bread and pasta. grown especially in southern russia, north africa, and northern central north america
funnel crest rosebud orchid;orchid of northeastern united states with magenta-pink flowers having funnel-shaped lip. sometimes placed in genus pogonia
nodding thistle;eurasian perennial naturalized in eastern north america having very spiny white cottony foliage and nodding musky crimson flower heads. valuable source of nectar
fisher;large dark brown north american arboreal carnivorous mammal
thysanopteron;an insect of the order thysanoptera
jade;an old or over-worked horse
hooded pitcher plant;yellow-flowered pitcher plant of southeastern united states having trumpet-shaped leaves with the orifice covered with an arched hood
smoke tree;any of several shrubs or shrubby trees of the genus cotinus
rotary engine;an internal-combustion engine having cylinders arranged radially around a central crankcase
true mahogany;mahogany tree of west indies
african mahogany;african tree having hard heavy odorless wood
stalking horse;a horse behind which a hunter hides while stalking game
acacia cambegei;scrubby australian acacia having extremely foul-smelling blossoms
black winged stilt;stilt of europe and africa and asia having mostly white plumage but with black wings
dope;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
tree sparrow;eurasian sparrow smaller than the house sparrow
prosopis glandulosa;thorny deep-rooted drought-resistant shrub native to southwestern united states and mexico bearing pods rich in sugar and important as livestock feed. tends to form extensive thickets
slime mould;a naked mass of protoplasm having characteristics of both plants and animals. sometimes classified as protoctists
roast beef plant;iris with purple flowers and evil-smelling leaves. southern and western europe and north africa
tettigoniid;grasshoppers with long threadlike antennae and well-developed stridulating organs on the forewings of the male
brazil nut;tall south american tree bearing brazil nuts
broody hen;a domestic hen ready to brood
digitaria ischaemum;a weed
centaurea scabiosa;tall european perennial having purple flower heads
australian heath;any heathlike plant of the family epacridaceae. most are of the australian region
monkey pinscher;european breed of small dog resembling a terrier with dark wiry hair and a tufted muzzle
pheasant;large long-tailed gallinaceous bird native to the old world but introduced elsewhere
armillaria caligata;fungus with a brown cap and white gills and a membranous ring halfway up the stalk
polyporus tenuiculus;a fungus with a whitish kidney-shaped cap and elongated pores. causes white rot in dead hardwoods
cuckoo bumblebee;a bee that is parasitic in the nests of bumblebees
gentiana detonsa;medium-tall fringed gentian with pale-glue to blue-purple flowers. circumboreal in distribution
corn smut;a smut fungus attacking indian corn
tangier pea;north african annual resembling the sweet pea having showy but odorless flowers
broad bean plant;old world upright plant grown especially for its large flat edible seeds but also as fodder
sea slater;marine isopod crustacean
inga laurina;tropical tree of central america and west indies and puerto rico having spikes of white flowers. used as shade for coffee plantations
alderleaf juneberry;shrub or small tree of northwestern north america having fragrant creamy white flowers and small waxy purple-red fruits
coronilla;any of various plants of the genus coronilla having purple or pink or yellow flowers in long-spiked axillary heads or umbels
mammee tree;tropical american tree having edible fruit with a leathery rind
moo cow;female of domestic cattle: 'moo-cow'' is a child's term'
tephrosia virginiana;perennial subshrub of eastern north america having downy leaves yellowish and rose flowers and. source of rotenone
wood rabbit;common small rabbit of north america having grayish or brownish fur and a tail with a white underside. a host for ixodes pacificus and ixodes scapularis (lyme disease ticks)
silver fern;fern of southern tropical africa having fronds with white undersides
swamp mallow;showy shrub of salt marshes of the eastern united states having large rose-colored flowers
blue point siamese;siamese cat having a bluish cream body and dark gray points
bog hemp;any of several flowering weeds of the genus boehmeria lacking stinging hairs
ilex decidua;deciduous shrub of southeastern and central united states
ancylus fluviatilis;minute conical gastropod superficially resembling a limpet but living and feeding on freshwater plants
citharichthys cornutus;from bahamas and northern gulf of mexico to brazil
tarwood;new zealand silver pine of conical habit with long slender flexuous branches. adapted to cold wet summers and high altitudes
joint snake;snakelike lizard of europe asia and north america with vestigial hind limbs and the ability to regenerate its long fragile tail
pepperwort;annual herb used as salad green and garnish
ringworm shrub;tropical shrub (especially of americas) having yellow flowers and large leaves whose juice is used as a cure for ringworm and poisonous bites. sometimes placed in genus cassia
key palm;small stocky fan palm of southern florida and cuba
short leaf pine;large pine of southrn united states having short needles in bunches of 2-3 and red-brown bark when mature
datura arborea;south american plant cultivated for its large fragrant trumpet-shaped flowers
fringepod;annual herb having pinnatifid basal leaves and slender racemes of small white flowers followed by one-seeded winged silicles
sarcocephalus latifolius;stout spreading or semiclimbing tropical shrub with round brownish-red warty fruit. africa
chinese pea tree;shrub with dark-green glossy foliage and solitary pale yellow flowers. northern china
european sanicle;sanicle of europe and asia having white to pale pink flowers
elephant ear;any plant of the genus alocasia having large showy basal leaves and boat-shaped spathe and reddish berries
viola;any of the numerous plants of the genus viola
bitter bark;ornamental shrub or small tree of swampy areas in southwestern united states having large pink or white sepals and yielding georgia bark for treating fever
liparis;an orchid of the genus liparis having few leaves and usually fairly small yellow-green or dull purple flowers in terminal racemes
vernonia;any of various plants of the genus vernonia of tropical and warm regions of especially north america that take their name from their loose heads of purple to rose flowers that quickly take on a rusty hue
tayassu pecari;blackish peccary with whitish cheeks. larger than the collared peccary
verbena;any of numerous tropical or subtropical american plants of the genus verbena grown for their showy spikes of variously colored flowers
coney;black-spotted usually dusky-colored fish with reddish fins
seasnail;small tadpole-shaped cold-water fishes with pelvic fins forming a sucker. related to lumpfish
mimosa sensitiva;semi-climbing prickly evergreen shrub of tropical america having compound leaves sensitive to light and touch
european fly honeysuckle;cultivated eurasian shrub with twin yellowish-white flowers and scarlet fruit
digital computer;a computer that represents information by numerical (binary) digits
sheep plant;cushion-forming new zealand herb having leaves densely covered with tawny hairs
sea chub;schooling fishes mostly of indian and western pacific oceans. two species in western atlantic
procyonid;plantigrade carnivorous mammals
auklet;any of several small auks of north pacific coasts
nodding wild onion;widely distributed north american wild onion with white to rose flowers
baiomys taylori;very small dark grayish brown mouse resembling a house mouse. of texas and mexico
genus sinanthropus;genus to which peking man was formerly assigned
creeping wood sorrel;creeping much-branched mat-forming weed. cosmopolitan
colinus virginianus;a favorite game bird of eastern and central united states
silky anteater;squirrel-sized south american toothless anteater with long silky golden fur
capybara;pig-sized tailless south american amphibious rodent with partly webbed feet. largest living rodent
tick trefoil;any of various tropical and subtropical plants having trifoliate leaves and rough sticky pod sections or loments
walking horse;a horse marked by stamina and trained to move at a fast running walk
bandsaw;a toothed metal band driven by two wheels
daphnia;minute freshwater crustacean having a round body enclosed in a transparent shell. moves about like a flea by means of hairy branched antennae
wild oats;any of various plants of the genus uvularia having yellowish drooping bell-shaped flowers
hibiscus esculentus;tall coarse annual of old world tropics widely cultivated in southern united states and west indies for its long mucilaginous green pods used as basis for soups and stews. sometimes placed in genus hibiscus
lark;north american yellow-breasted songbirds
norway lobster;edible european lobster resembling the american lobster but slenderer
stomatopod crustacean;a kind of crustacean
bent grass;grass for pastures and lawns especially bowling and putting greens
cryptophyte;common in fresh and salt water appearing along the shore as algal blooms
ringneck snake;any of numerous small nonvenomous north american snakes with a yellow or orange ring around the neck
longan;tree of southeastern asia to australia grown primarily for its sweet translucent-fleshed edible fruit resembling litchi nuts. sometimes placed in genera euphoria or nephelium
vigna caracalla;perennial tropical american vine cultivated for its racemes of showy yellow and purple flowers having the corolla keel coiled like a snail shell. sometimes placed in genus phaseolus
huckleberry;any of several shrubs of the genus gaylussacia bearing small berries resembling blueberries
fictional animal;animals that exist only in fiction (usually in children's stories)
common wheat;widely cultivated in temperate regions in many varieties for its commercially important grain
phenacomys;any of several vole-like terrestrial or arboreal rodents of cold forested regions of canada and western united states
larix occidentalis;tall larch of western north america have pale green sharply pointed leaves and oblong cones. an important timber tree
berberis vulgaris;upright deciduous european shrub widely naturalized in united states having clusters of juicy berries
grouse;popular game bird having a plump body and feathered legs and feet
bulrush millet;tall grass having cattail like spikes. grown in africa and asia for its grain and in the united states chiefly for forage. sometimes used in making beer
groundsel tree;a shrub of salt marshes of eastern and south central north america and west indies. fruit is surrounded with white plumelike hairy tufts
monarda pectinata;annual of southern united states
fuchsia excorticata;erect deciduous shrub or tree to 10 feet with maroon-flushed flowers. new zealand
erigeron aurantiacus;mat-forming herb of turkestan with nearly double orange-yellow flowers
saki;small arboreal monkey of tropical south america with long hair and bushy nonprehensile tail
northern shrike;butcherbird of northern north american
sweet cicely;european herb with soft ferny leaves and white flowers
connarus guianensis;tropical american and east african tree with strikingly marked hardwood used in cabinetwork
chrysanthemum frutescens;perennial subshrub of the canary islands having usually pale yellow daisylike flowers. often included in genus chrysanthemum
cudweed;any plant of the genus filago having capitate clusters of small woolly flower heads
bottlenose;any of several dolphins with rounded forehead and well-developed beak. chiefly of north atlantic and mediterranean
trionyx muticus;river turtle of mississippi basin. prefers running water
conepatus leuconotus;large naked-muzzled skunk with white back and tail. of southwestern north america and mexico
disk harrow;a harrow with a series of disks set on edge at an angle
poinsettia strain;a strain accidentally imported into florida from the middle east then spread to california where it is a very serious pest feeding on almost all vegetable crops and poinsettias
ricebird;migratory american songbird
purple heather;semi-prostrate evergreen herb of western united states
woodwaxen;small eurasian shrub having clusters of yellow flowers that yield a dye. common as weed in england and united states. sometimes grown as an ornamental
gray sea eagle;bulky grayish-brown eagle with a short wedge-shaped white tail. of europe and greenland
brain coral;massive reef-building coral having a convoluted and furrowed surface
tangelo tree;hybrid between grapefruit and mandarin orange. cultivated especially in florida
red goatfish;body bright scarlet with 2 yellow to reddish strips on side
lithospermum caroliniense;perennial plant of eastern north america having hairy foliage yielding a red or yellow pigment
prairie rattler;widely distributed between the mississippi and the rockies
althea rosea;plant with terminal racemes of showy white to pink or purple flowers. the english cottage garden hollyhock
traveller s tree;giant treelike plant having edible nuts and leafstalks that yield a refreshing drink of clear watery sap. reputedly an emergency source of water for travelers
matricaria recutita;annual eurasian herb similar in fragrance and medicinal uses to chamomile though taste is more bitter and effect is considered inferior
green fringed orchis;fringed orchid of the eastern united states having a greenish flower with the lip deeply lacerate
diospyros lotus;an asiatic persimmon tree cultivated for its small yellow or purplish-black edible fruit much valued by afghan tribes
caltrop;mediterannean annual or biennial herb having pinkish to purple flowers surrounded by spine-tipped scales. naturalized in america
mount;a lightweight horse kept for riding only
cystopteris fragilis;delicate fern widely distributed in north america and european having thin pinnatifid fronds with brittle stems
celery pine;australasian evergreen conifer having a graceful head of celery-like foliage composed of phyllodes borne in the axils of scalelike leaves
australopithecus africanus;gracile hominid of southern africa. from about 3 million years ago. formerly plesianthropus_transvaalensis
sus scrofa;domestic swine
canada violet;tall north american perennial with heart-shaped leaves and purple-streaked white flowers
european lobster;lobster of atlantic coast of europe
guan;any of several large turkey-like game birds of the family cracidae. native to jungles of tropical america. resembling the curassows and valued as food
tolypeutes tricinctus;south american armadillo with three bands of bony plates
larix lyallii;medium-sized larch of north american rocky mountains. closely related to larix_occidentalis
cecropia;north american silkworm moth. larvae feed on the leaves of forest trees
scardinius erythrophthalmus;european freshwater fish resembling the roach
stemless golden weed;dark green erect herb of northwestern united states and southwestern canada having stiff leaves in dense tufts and yellow flower heads. sometimes placed in genus haplopappus
widow bird;mostly black african weaverbird
tall buttercup;perennial european buttercup with yellow spring flowers widely naturalized especially in eastern north america
quercus arizonica;semi-evergreen shrub or small tree of arizona and new mexico having acorns with hemispherical cups
tortoiseshell cat;a cat having black and cream and yellowish markings
scolymus hispanicus;a golden thistle of southwestern europe cultivated for its edible sweet roots and edible leaves and stalks. its yellow flowers are used as a substitute for saffron
thiobacteria;any bacterium of the genus thiobacillus
southern live oak;medium-sized evergreen native to eastern north america to the east coast of mexico. often cultivated as shade tree for it wide-spreading crown. extremely hard tough durable wood once used in shipbuilding
gutta percha tree;east indian tree yielding gutta-percha
old world beaver;a european variety of beaver
amanita rubescens;yellowish edible agaric that usually turns red when touched
cero;large mackerel with long pointed snout. important food and game fish of the eastern atlantic coast south to brazil
bobwhite;a popular north american game bird. named for its call
possum oak;relatively tall deciduous water oak of southeastern united states often cultivated as a shade tree. thrives in wet soil
regulus regulus;european kinglet with a black-bordered yellow crown patch
decapod;crustaceans characteristically having five pairs of locomotor appendages each joined to a segment of the thorax
woodsia;any fern of the genus woodsia
abelmosk;bushy herb of tropical asia grown for its yellow or pink to scarlet hibiscuslike blooms
mexican tea;eurasian aromatic oak-leaved goosefoot with many yellow-green flowers. naturalized north america
gyps fulvus;large vulture of southern europe and northern africa having pale plumage with black wings
chen caerulescens;north american wild goose having dark plumage in summer but white in winter
cecropia peltata;tropical american tree with large peltate leaves and hollow stems
rubus cuneifolius;stiff shrubby blackberry of the eastern united states (connecticut to florida)
pedilanthus bracteatus;wax-coated mexican shrub related to euphorbia antisyphilitica
monkey puzzle;large chilean evergreen conifer having intertwined branches and bearing edible nuts
fretsaw;narrow-bladed fine-toothed saw for cutting curved outlines
cochin;asian breed of large fowl with dense plumage and feathered legs
lady s leek;widely distributed north american wild onion with white to rose flowers
tunny;any very large marine food and game fish of the genus thunnus. related to mackerel. chiefly of warm waters
soapwort gentian;erect perennial of wet woodlands of north america having leaves and flower buds resembling those of soapwort
pigeon hawk;small falcon of europe and america having dark plumage with black-barred tail. used in falconry
golden heather;north american decumbent evergreen heathlike plant with yellow flowers
artemisia;any of various composite shrubs or herbs of the genus artemisia having aromatic green or grayish foliage
rhizophora mangle;a tropical tree or shrub bearing fruit that germinates while still on the tree and having numerous prop roots that eventually form an impenetrable mass and are important in land building
pine snake;any of several bull snakes of eastern and southeastern united states found chiefly in pine woods. now threatened
resplendent trogon;very rare central american bird. the national bird of guatemala
angelfish;deep-bodied disk-shaped food fish of warmer western atlantic coastal waters
plectophera;in some former classifications: name for the ephemeroptera
cur;an inferior dog or one of mixed breed
ink jet printer;a printer that produces characters by deflecting drops of ink
culex pipiens;common house mosquito
shining willow;common north american shrub with shiny lanceolate leaves
parasite yew;rare and endangered monoecious parasitic conifer of new caledonia. parasitic on falcatifolium taxoides
liliaceous plant;plant growing from a bulb or corm or rhizome or tuber
caragana;any plant of the genus caragana having even-pinnate leaves and mostly yellow flowers followed by seeds in a linear pod
steller sea lion;largest sea lion. of the north pacific
elegant habenaria;slender inland rein orchid similar to coastal rein orchid but with pale greenish-yellow flowers
southern crab apple;small tree or shrub of southeastern united states. cultivated as an ornamental for its rose-colored blossoms
adam s needle and thread;yucca with long stiff leaves having filamentlike appendages
stropharia hornemannii;a gilled fungus with a large slimy purple or olive cap. gills become purple with age. the stalk is long and richly decorated with pieces of the white sheath that extends up to a ring
plethodon cinereus;common salamander of eastern north america
allium ascalonicum;type of onion plant producing small clustered mild-flavored bulbs used as seasoning
leopardess;female leopard
sinningia speciosa;south american herb cultivated in many varieties as a houseplant for its large handsome leaves and large variously colored bell-shaped flowers
torsk;large edible marine fish of northern coastal waters. related to cod
cowage;annual semi-woody vine of asia having long clusters of purplish flowers and densely hairy pods. cultivated in southern united states for green manure and grazing
passeriform bird;perching birds mostly small and living near the ground with feet having 4 toes arranged to allow for gripping the perch. most are songbirds. hatchlings are helpless
wild rape;eurasian weed having yellow or mauve or white flowers and podlike fruits
filmy fern;any fern of the genus trichomanes having large pinnatifid often translucent fronds. most are epiphytic on tree branches and twigs or terrestrial on mossy banks
japanese apricot;japanese ornamental tree with fragrant white or pink blossoms and small yellow fruits
hen;female of certain aquatic animals e.g. octopus or lobster
tree cricket;pale arboreal american cricket noted for loud stridulation
china tree;evergreen of tropical america having pulpy fruit containing saponin which was used as soap by native americans
polecat;dark brown mustelid of woodlands of eurasia that gives off an unpleasant odor when threatened
common morel;an edible and choice morel with a globular to elongate head with an irregular pattern of pits and ridges
rhizomatous begonia;any of numerous begonias having prominent shaggy creeping stems or rhizomes
syringa reticulata;small tree of japan having narrow pointed leaves and creamy-white flowers
guinea corn;sorghums of dry regions of asia and north africa
celandine;perennial herb with branched woody stock and bright yellow flowers
flying gecko;having membranous expansions along sides of body and limbs and tail
rusty blackbird;north american blackbird whose bluish-black plumage is rusty-edged in the fall
ratter;any of several breeds of terrier developed to catch rats
jatropha stimulosus;a stinging herb of tropical america
false mitrewort;plant with tiny white flowers hanging in loose clusters on leafy stems. moist woods from alaska to central california and east to montana
brazilian potato tree;south american shrub or small tree widely cultivated in the tropics. not a true potato
dawn redwood;large fast-growing chinese monoecious tree having flat bright-green deciduous leaves and small globular cones. commonly cultivated in united states as an ornamental. known as a fossil before being discovered in china
tasmanian tiger;rare doglike carnivorous marsupial of tasmania having stripes on its back. probably extinct
hoatzin;crested ill-smelling south american bird whose young have claws on the first and second digits of the wings
ling;elongated marine food fish of greenland and northern europe. often salted and dried
sapling;young tree
dwarf elder;bristly herb of eastern and central north america having black fruit and medicinal bark
purple cress;small perennial herb of cooler regions of north america with racemose purple flowers
nakedwood;tree of extreme southern florida and west indies having thin scaly bark and aromatic fruits and seeds and yielding hard heavy close-grained zebrawood
mustela vison;usually rich dark brown
portunus puber;crab of the english coasts
american centaury;pink-flowered marsh plant of the eastern united states
pseudowintera colorata;evergreen shrub or small tree whose foliage is conspicuously blotched with red and yellow and having small black fruits
green tailed towhee;towhee of the rocky mountain region
butterball;small north american diving duck. males have bushy head plumage
akee;widely cultivated in tropical and subtropical regions for its fragrant flowers and colorful fruits. introduced in jamaica by captain bligh of hms bounty
tree mallow;arborescent perennial shrub having palmately lobed furry leaves and showy red-purple flowers. southwestern united states
mugil cephalus;most important commercial mullet in eastern united states
marmot;stocky coarse-furred burrowing rodent with a short bushy tail found throughout the northern hemisphere. hibernates in winter
asarum europaeum;thick creeping evergreen herb of western europe
kurrat;coarse old world perennial having a large bulb and tall stalk of greenish purple-tinged flowers. widely naturalized
blattella germanica;small light-brown cockroach brought to united states from europe. a common household pest
psilotum nudum;pantropical epiphytic or terrestrial whisk fern with usually dull yellow branches and minute leaves. america. japan. australia
corallorhiza striata;nearly leafless wildflower with erect reddish-purple stems bearing racemes of pale pinkish and brownish-striped flowers. western canada to mexico
monarda didyma;perennial aromatic herb of eastern north america having variously colored tubular flowers in dense showy heads
downy cheat;annual or winter annual grass with softly hairy leaves of the mediterranean
ovis aries;any of various breeds raised for wool or edible meat or skin
escherichia;a genus of enteric bacteria
electronic computer;a machine for performing calculations automatically
lepidocybium flavobrunneum;large snake mackerel with rings like spectacles around its eyes
mud hen;north american coot
trachinotus falcatus;large game fish. found in waters of the west indies
redhead;north american diving duck with a gray-and-black body and reddish-brown head
humanoid;an automaton that resembles a human being
pennisetum setaceum;tall perennial ornamental grass with long nodding flower plumes of tropical africa and asia
spanish dagger;arborescent yucca of southwestern united states and northern mexico with sword-shaped leaves and white flowers
psyllium;plantain of mediterranean regions whose seeds swell and become gelatinous when moist and are used as a mild laxative
birch leaf miner;small black sawfly native to europe but established in eastern united states. larvae mine the leaves of birches causing serious defoliation
wood rat;any of various small short-tailed rodents of the northern hemisphere having soft fur gray above and white below with well-furred tails and large ears. some are hosts for ixodes pacificus and ixodes scapularis (lyme disease ticks)
canyon treefrog;small chiefly ground dweller that stays within easy jumping distance of water. of united states southwest and northern mexico
crotalus adamanteus;large deadly rattlesnake with diamond-shaped markings
japanese cherry;ornamental tree with inedible fruits widely cultivated in many varieties for its white blossoms
marsh cress;annual or biennial cress growing in damp places sometimes used in salads or as a potherb. troublesome weed in some localities
centaurium calycosum;erect plant with small clusters of pink trumpet-shaped flowers of southwestern united states
liriodendron tulipifera;tall north american deciduous timber tree having large tulip-shaped greenish yellow flowers and conelike fruit. yields soft white woods used especially for cabinet work
canvasback;north american wild duck valued for sport and food
butternut tree;north american walnut tree having light-brown wood and edible nuts. source of a light-brown dye
helianthus giganteus;very tall american perennial of central and the eastern united states to canada having edible tuberous roots
kurakkan;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
redstart;european songbird with a reddish breast and tail. related to old world robins
coralroot;european bittercress having a knotted white rootstock
white thistle;spiny shrub with silvery-scurfy foliage of alkaline plains of southwestern united states and mexico
persian walnut;eurasian walnut valued for its large edible nut and its hard richly figured wood. widely cultivated
styphelia humifusum;small prostrate or ascending shrub having scarlet flowers and thin-fleshed succulent fruit resembling cranberries. sometimes place in genus styphelia
pholiota destruens;a large fungus with shitish scales on the cap and remnants of the veil hanging from the cap. the stalk is thick and hard
physalis pubescens;decorative american annual having round fleshy yellow berries enclosed in a bladderlike husk
bug;a minute life form (especially a disease-causing bacterium). the term is not in technical use
weaver finch;finch-like african and asian colonial birds noted for their elaborately woven nests
aythya valisineria;north american wild duck valued for sport and food
deparia acrostichoides;fern with elongate silvery outgrowths enclosing the developing spores
azadirachta indica;large semi-evergreen tree of east india. trunk exudes a tenacious gum. bitter bark used as a tonic. seeds yield an aromatic oil. sometimes placed in genus melia
shire;british breed of large heavy draft horse
serenoa repens;small hardy clump-forming spiny palm of southern united states
pine mouse;short-tailed glossy-furred burrowing vole of the eastern united states
yellow gurnard;a kind of gurnard
alpine sunflower;whitish hairy plant with featherlike leaves and a few stout stems each bearing an especially handsome solitary large yellow flower head. mountainous regions north central united states
crybaby tree;small south american spiny tree with dark crimson and scarlet flowers solitary or clustered
fishpole bamboo;small bamboo of southeastern china having slender culms flexuous when young
european woolly thistle;woolly thistle of western and central europe and balkan peninsula
butterfly pea;largle-flowered weakly twining or prostrate vine of nj to tropical eastern north america, sometimes cultivated for its purple and white flowers
babies;european forage plant having claw-shaped pods introduced in america
sandgrouse;pigeon-like bird of arid regions of the old world having long pointed wings and tail and precocial downy young
hippopotamus amphibius;massive thick-skinned herbivorous animal living in or around rivers of tropical africa
angelfish;a butterfly fish of the genus pomacanthus
testacean;any of various rhizopods of the order testacea characterized by having a shell
scleranthus annuus;widely distributed low-growing eurasian herb having narrow leaves and inconspicuous green flowers
american parasol;an agaric with a pallid cap and a stalk that is enlarged near the base
doodia;any fern of the genus doodia having pinnate fronds with sharply dentate pinnae
squaretail;sluggish square-tailed fish armored with tough bony scales. of deep warm waters
runch;eurasian weed having yellow or mauve or white flowers and podlike fruits
persea americana;tropical american tree bearing large pulpy green fruits
border collie;developed in the area between scotland and england usually having a black coat with white on the head and tip of tail used for herding both sheep and cattle
horse;solid-hoofed herbivorous quadruped domesticated since prehistoric times
cuban mahogany;mahogany tree of west indies
waratah;tall shrub of eastern australia having obolanceolate to obovate leaves and red flowes in compact racemes
lancetfish;large elongate scaleless oceanic fishes with sharp teeth and a long sail-like dorsal fin
dogbane;any of several poisonous perennial plants of the genus apocynum having acrid milky juice and bll-shaped white or pink flowers and a very bitter root
august plum;wild plum trees of eastern and central north america having red-orange fruit with yellow flesh
hyena;doglike nocturnal mammal of africa and southern asia that feeds chiefly on carrion
worm lizard;a lizard of the genus amphisbaena. harmless wormlike limbless lizard of warm or tropical regions having concealed eyes and ears and a short blunt tail
saxifraga granulata;rosette-forming perennial having compact panicles of white flowers. europe
copperhead;venomous but sluggish reddish-brown snake of australia
comb jelly;biradially symmetrical hermaphroditic solitary marine animals resembling jellyfishes having for locomotion eight rows of cilia arranged like teeth in a comb
cirsium lanceolatum;european thistle with rather large heads and prickly leaves. extensively naturalized as a weed in the united states
water fennel;european poisonous herb with fibrous roots
ariocarpus fissuratus;usually unbranched usually spineless cactus covered with warty tubercles and having magenta flowers and white or green fruit. resembles the related mescal. northeastern mexico and southwestern united states
apolemia;large siphonophore of up to 50 ft long
thunnus thynnus;largest tuna. to 1500 pounds. of mostly temperate seas: feed in polar regions but breed in tropics
perilla frutescens crispa;plant grown for its ornamental red or purple foliage
love lies bleeding;young leaves widely used as leaf vegetables. seeds used as cereal
water oak;relatively tall deciduous water oak of southeastern united states often cultivated as a shade tree. thrives in wet soil
saimiri sciureus;small long-tailed monkey of central and south america with greenish fur and black muzzle
caimitillo;tropical american timber tree with dark hard heavy wood and small plumlike purple fruit
wine palm;fishtail palm of india to malay peninsula. sap yields a brown sugar (jaggery) and trunk pith yields sago
sea cradle;primitive elongated bilaterally symmetrical marine mollusk having a mantle covered with eight calcareous plates
toxotes jaculatrix;any of several small indo-australian freshwater fishes that catch insects by squirting water at them and knocking them into the water
death s head moth;european hawkmoth with markings on the back resembling a human skull
asian tiger mosquito;striped native of japan thriving in united states southeast and midwest and spreading to the caribbean. potential carrier of serious diseases
rabbitwood;shrub of southeasternuni ted states parasitic on roots of hemlocks having sparse spikes of greenish flowers and pulpy drupes
tulip;any of numerous perennial bulbous herbs having linear or broadly lanceolate leaves and usually a single showy flower
devilfish;extremely large pelagic tropical ray that feeds on plankton and small fishes. usually harmless but its size make it dangerous if harpooned
wild crocus;short hairy perennial with early spring blue-violet or lilac flowers. north america and siberia
tautog;large dark-colored food fish of the atlantic coast of north america
enterobius vermicularis;small threadlike worm infesting human intestines and rectum esp. in children
chateura pelagica;american swift that nests in e.g. unused chimneys
artemis pontica;european wormwood. minor source of absinthe
hylactophryne augusti;of southwest united states and mexico. call is like a dog's bark
catalpa;tree of the genus catalpa with large leaves and white flowers followed by long slender pods
axolotl;larval salamander of mountain lakes of mexico that usually lives without metamorphosing
khesari;european annual grown for forage. seeds used for food in india and for stock elsewhere
paleacrita vernata;moth whose larvae are spring cankerworms
quetzal;large trogon of central and south america having golden-green and scarlet plumage
devil tree;evergreen tree of eastern asia and philippines having large leathery leaves and small green-white flowers in compact cymes. bark formerly used medicinally
symphoricarpos orbiculatus;north american deciduous shrub cultivated for it abundant clusters of coral-red berrylike fruits
twayblade;an orchid of the genus liparis having a pair of leaves
claytonia virginica;small cormous perennial grown for its low rosette of succulent foliage and racemes of pink-tinged white flowers. eastern north america
saxifraga oppositifolia;plants forming dense cushions with bright reddish-lavender flowers. rocky areas of europe and asia and western north america
davalia bullata;feathery fern of tropical asia and malaysia
dalbergia sissoo;east indian tree whose leaves are used for fodder. yields a compact dark brown durable timber used in shipbuilding and making railroad ties
melastoma malabathricum;evergreen spreading shrub of india and southeastern asia having large purple flowers
flying bird;birds having keeled breastbones for attachment of flight muscles
delonix regia;showy tropical tree or shrub native to madagascar. widely planted in tropical regions for its immense racemes of scarlet and orange flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
striped mullet;most important commercial mullet in eastern united states
phalaris aquatica;perennial grass of australia and south africa. introduced in north america as forage grass
hawk moth;any of various moths with long narrow forewings capable of powerful flight and hovering over flowers to feed
flannel bush;any of several handsome evergreen shrubs of california and northern mexico having downy lobed leaves and showy yellow flowers
saury;slender long-beaked fish of temperate atlantic waters
coxsackie virus;enterovirus causing a disease resembling poliomyelitis but without paralysis
haploid;an organism or cell having only one complete set of chromosomes
cryptogam;formerly recognized taxonomic group including all flowerless and seedless plants that reproduce by means of spores: ferns, mosses, algae, fungi
alexanders;european herb somewhat resembling celery widely naturalized in britain coastal regions and often cultivated as a potherb
vaccinium corymbosum;high-growing deciduous shrub of eastern north america bearing edible blueish to blackish berries with a distinct bloom. source of most cultivated blueberries
chanterelle;widely distributed edible mushroom rich yellow in color with a smooth cap and a pleasant apricot aroma
mew;the common gull of eurasia and northeastern north america
sild;any of various young herrings (other than brislings) canned as sardines in norway
black snakeroot;deciduous low-growing perennial of canada and eastern and central united states
negro pepper;tropical west african evergreen tree bearing pungent aromatic seeds used as a condiment and in folk medicine
ridgeling;a colt with undescended testicles
onoclea sensibilis;beautiful spreading fern of eastern north america and eastern asia naturalized in western europe. pinnately divided fronds show a slight tendency to fold when touched. pinnules enclose groups of sori in beadlike lobes
tarragon;aromatic perennial of southeastern russia
virginia mallow;tall handsome perennial herb of southeastern united states having maplelike leaves and white flowers
brown pine;large australian tree with straight-grained yellow wood that turns brown on exposure
stromateid;small marine fish with a short smooth-scaled compressed body and feeble spines
spizella passerina;small north american finch common in urban areas
leadplant;shrub of sandy woodlands and stream banks of western united states having hoary pinnate flowers and dull-colored racemose flowers. thought to indicate the presence of lead ore
dianthus barbatus;eurasian pink widely cultivated for its flat-topped dense clusters of varicolored flowers
devil s walking stick;small deciduous clump-forming tree or shrub of eastern united states
mangrove;a tropical tree or shrub bearing fruit that germinates while still on the tree and having numerous prop roots that eventually form an impenetrable mass and are important in land building
european chestnut;wild or cultivated throughout southern europe, northwestern africa and southwestern asia
opossum rat;terrestrial marsupials of southern south america that resemble shrews
sweet melon vine;any of several varieties of vine whose fruit has a netted rind and edible flesh and a musky smell
vipera aspis;of southern europe. similar to but smaller than the adder
heterostracan;extinct jawless fish with the anterior part of the body covered with bony plates. of the silurian and devonian
whipsnake;any of several fast-moving north american snakes with long whiplike tails
punky;minute two-winged insect that sucks the blood of mammals and birds and other insects
curlew sandpiper;old world sandpiper with a curved bill like a curlew
cork oak;medium-sized evergreen oak of southern europe and northern africa having thick corky bark that is periodically stripped to yield commercial cork
eastern poison oak;poisonous shrub of southeastern united states causing a rash on contact
cotinga;passerine bird of new world tropics
african holly;woolly-stemmed biennial arborescent shrub of tropical africa and southern asia having silvery-white prickly branches, clusters of blue or white flowers, and bright red berries resembling holly berries
burnet bloodwort;european garden herb with purple-tinged flowers and leaves that are sometimes used for salads
puccoon;perennial plant of eastern north america having hairy foliage yielding a red or yellow pigment
anemonella thalictroides;woodland flower native to eastern north america having cup-shaped flowers reminiscent of anemone but more delicate
long horned beetle;long-bodied beetle having very long antennae
pithecellobium dulce;common thorny tropical american tree having terminal racemes of yellow flowers followed by sickle-shaped or circinate edible pods and yielding good timber and a yellow dye and mucilaginous gum
psocopterous insect;small soft-bodied insect with chewing mouthparts and either no wings or two pairs
indian corn;tall annual cereal grass bearing kernels on large ears: widely cultivated in america in many varieties. the principal cereal in mexico and central and south america since pre-columbian times
hessian fly;small fly whose larvae damage wheat and other grains
spodoptera frugiperda;moth whose larvae are fall armyworms
epilobium canum canum;shrublet of southwestern united states to mexico having brilliant scarlet flowers. sometimes placed in genus zauschneria
gull;mostly white aquatic bird having long pointed wings and short legs
pekinese;a chinese breed of small short-legged dogs with a long silky coat and broad flat muzzle
shoat;a young pig
chiton;primitive elongated bilaterally symmetrical marine mollusk having a mantle covered with eight calcareous plates
galega officinalis;tall bushy european perennial grown for its masses of light-textured pinnate foliage and slender spikes of blue flowers. sometimes used medicinally
dandie dinmont terrier;a breed of small terrier with long wiry coat and drooping ears
sweet coltsfoot;european herb with vanilla-scented white-pink flowers
uvularia grandiflora;plant of southern and southeastern united states grown for its yellow flowers that can be dried
magnolia grandiflora;evergreen tree of southern united states having large stiff glossy leaves and huge white sweet-smelling flowers
chinese angelica tree;similar to american angelica tree but less prickly. china
vole;any of various small mouselike rodents of the family cricetidae esp. of genus microtus having a stout short-tailed body and inconspicuous ears and inhabiting fields or meadows
echeneis naucrates;remoras found attached to sharks
crab eating macaque;monkey of southeast asia, borneo and the philippines
beach sand verbena;prostrate herb having heads of deep pink to white flowers. found in coastal dunes from british columbia to baja california
scomberomorus cavalla;large mackerel with long pointed snout. important food and game fish of the eastern atlantic coast south to brazil
tilefish;yellow-spotted violet food fish of warm deep waters
satureja acinos;fragrant european mint having clusters of small violet-and-white flowers. naturalized especially in eastern north america
spotted gum;large gum tree with mottled bark
calochortus albus;globe lily having open branched clusters of egg-shaped white flowers. southern california
talinum augustissimum;similar to talinum aurantiacum but with narrower leaves and yellow-orange flowers. southwestern united states
bimli hemp;valuable fiber plant of east indies now widespread in cultivation
gridiron tailed lizard;swift lizard with long black-banded tail and long legs. of deserts of united states and mexico
salt marsh mallow;subshrub of southeastern united states to new york
fucoid algae;any of various algae of the family fucaceae
gutierrezia sarothrae;low-growing sticky subshrub of southwestern united states having narrow linear leaves on many slender branches and hundreds of tiny yellow flower heads
yellow bells;viscid herb of arid or desert habitats of southwestern united states having pendulous yellow flowers
game fish;any fish providing sport for the angler
spadefoot;burrowing toad of the northern hemisphere with a horny spade-like projection on each hind foot
indigo finch;small deep blue north american bunting
acorus calamus;perennial marsh plant having swordlike leaves and aromatic roots
ivy leaved geranium;a commonly cultivated trailing south american plant with peltate leaves and rosy flowers
indian bean;tree of the genus catalpa with large leaves and white flowers followed by long slender pods
dendranthema grandifloruom;of china
diploid;an organism or cell having two sets of chromosomes or twice the haploid number
bulbous iris;any of various irises having a rootstock formed like a bulb
american mastodon;north american mastodon. in some classifications considered a mammoth rather than a mastodon
leather fern;stout tropical swamp fern (especially tropical america) having large fronds with golden yellow sporangia covering the undersides
oriental cherry;ornamental tree with inedible fruits widely cultivated in many varieties for its white blossoms
sapodilla;large tropical american evergreen yielding chicle gum and edible fruit. sometimes placed in genus achras
elm;any of various trees of the genus ulmus: important timber or shade trees
silver ash;any of various timber trees of the genus flindersia
ilex paraguariensis;south american holly. leaves used in making a tealike drink
coralwort;european bittercress having a knotted white rootstock
monomorium pharaonis;small red ant of warm regions. a common household pest
buckthorn;an old world plantain with long narrow ribbed leaves widely established in temperate regions
wankel engine;a four-stroke internal-combustion engine without reciprocating parts
helmetflower;any of several orchids of the genus coryanthes having racemes of a few musky-scented waxy flowers with a helmet-shaped lip process
gaultheria procumbens;creeping shrub of eastern north america having white bell-shaped flowers followed by spicy red berrylike fruit and shiny aromatic leaves that yield wintergreen oil
water shield;common aquatic plant of eastern north america having floating and submerged leaves and white yellow-spotted flowers
sulphur bacteria;any bacterium of the genus thiobacillus
marupa;tree of the amazon valley yielding a light brittle timber locally regarded as resistant to insect attack
black bead;erect shrub with small if any spines having racemes of white to yellow flowers followed by curved pointed pods and black shiny seeds. west indies and florida
california nutmeg;california evergreen having a fruit resembling a nutmeg but with a strong turpentine flavor
ragged orchis;fringed orchid of the eastern united states having a greenish flower with the lip deeply lacerate
white potato vine;annual native to south america having underground stolons bearing edible starchy tubers. widely cultivated as a garden vegetable. vines are poisonous
christmas tree;tall timber tree of central and southern europe having a regular crown and gray bark
rubus australis;stout-stemmed trailing shrub of new zealand that scrambles over other growth
st. dabeoc s heath;low straggling evergreen shrub of western europe represented by several varieties with flowers from white to rose-purple
cultivator;a farm implement used to break up the surface of the soil (for aeration and weed control and conservation of moisture)
arctium lappa;burdock having heart-shaped leaves found in open woodland, hedgerows and rough grassland of europe (except extreme n) and asia minor. sometimes cultivated for medicinal and culinary use
procavia capensis;hyrax that lives in rocky areas
harrier;hawks that hunt over meadows and marshes and prey on small terrestrial animals
kogia simus;very small (to 8 feet) sperm whale of central coasts of atlantic and pacific
western skink;found in western north american grasslands and open woodlands
tennessee walking horse;a horse marked by stamina and trained to move at a fast running walk
earthnut;any of various highly prized edible subterranean fungi of the genus tuber. grow naturally in southwestern europe
pitcher sage;california erect and sparsely branched perennial
fouquieria splendens;desert shrub of southwestern united states and mexico having slender naked spiny branches that after the rainy season put forth foliage and clusters of red flowers
ling ko;water chestnut whose spiny fruit has two rather than 4 prongs
cancer borealis;large red deep-water crab of the eastern coast of north america
water starwort;any of several aquatic plants having a star-shaped rosette of floating leaves. america, europe and asia
poterium sanguisorba;european garden herb with purple-tinged flowers and leaves that are sometimes used for salads
thin leaved bilberry;erect blueberry of western united states having solitary flowers and somewhat sour berries
mercurialis annua;eurafrican annual naturalized in america as a weed. formerly dried for use as a purgative, diuretic or antisyphilitic
calostoma cinnabarina;a gasteromycete with a leathery stalk and a fruiting body this globose and has a red spore case
arctic fox;thickly-furred fox of arctic regions. brownish in summer and white in winter
algarroba;mesquite of gulf coast and caribbean islands from mexico to venezuela
pomoxis annularis;a crappie that is white
lithocarpus glabra;small evergreen tree of china and japan
alsobia dianthiflora;low-growing creeping perennial of central america having deeply fringed white flowers. sometimes placed in genus episcia
eggar;moth having nonfunctional mouthparts as adults. larvae feed on tree foliage and spin egg-shaped cocoons
surmullet;brightly colored tropical fishes with chin barbels
mimosa pudica;prostrate or semi-erect subshrub of tropical america, and australia. heavily armed with recurved thorns and having sensitive soft gray-green leaflets that fold and droop at night or when touched or cooled
tarsier;nocturnal arboreal primate of indonesia and the philippines having huge eyes and digits ending in pads to facilitate climbing. the only primate that spurns all plant material as food living entirely on insects and small vertebrates
chlorophoneus nigrifrons;a kind of bush shrike
passerina cyanea;small deep blue north american bunting
mung;erect bushy annual widely cultivated in warm regions of india and indonesia and united states for forage and especially its edible seeds. chief source of bean sprouts used in chinese cookery. sometimes plaaaced in genus phaseolus
tacca leontopetaloides;perennial herb of east india to polynesia and australia cultivated for its large edible root yielding otaheite arrowroot starch
woad;any of several herbs of the genus isatis
cart track plant;common european perennial naturalized worldwide. a troublesome weed
diodon hystrix;spines become erect when the body is inflated. worldwide in warm waters
aleppa grass;tall perennial grass that spreads by creeping rhizomes and is grown for fodder. naturalized in southern united states where it is a serious pest on cultivated land
great burdock;burdock having heart-shaped leaves found in open woodland, hedgerows and rough grassland of europe (except extreme n) and asia minor. sometimes cultivated for medicinal and culinary use
cimicifuga racemosa;north american bugbane found from main and ontario to wisconsin and south to georgia
pout;marine eellike mostly bottom-dwelling fishes of northern seas
shepherd s pouch;white-flowered annual european herb bearing triangular notched pods. nearly cosmopolitan as an introduced weed
cry baby tree;small south american spiny tree with dark crimson and scarlet flowers solitary or clustered
prociphilus tessellatus;attacks alders
ruby crowned wren;american kinglet with a notable song and in the male a red crown patch
glass lizard;snakelike lizard of europe asia and north america with vestigial hind limbs and the ability to regenerate its long fragile tail
yearling;a racehorse considered one year old until the second jan. 1 following its birth
yacca;west indian evergreen with medium to long leaves
pup;young of any of various canines such as a dog or wolf
prairie marmot;any of several rodents of north american prairies living in large complex burrows having a barking cry
megalobatrachus maximus;large (to 3+ feet) edible salamander of asia
thrip;any of various small to minute sucking insects with narrow feathery wings if any. they feed on plant sap and many are destructive
sainfoin;eurasian perennial herb having pale pink flowers and curved pods. naturalized in britain and north america grasslands on calcareous soils. important forage crop and source of honey in britain
cryptobranchus alleganiensis;large salamander of north american rivers and streams
boat billed heron;tropical american heron related to night herons
cruel plant;robust twining shrub having racemes of fragrant white or pink flowers with flat spreading terminal petals that trap nocturnal moths and hold them until dawn
noctiluca;large bioluminescent marine protozoan
gri gri;tropical american feather palm having a swollen spiny trunk and edible nuts
jamaica sorrel;east indian sparsely prickly annual herb or perennial subshrub widely cultivated for its fleshy calyxes used in tarts and jelly and for its bast fiber
common mackerel;important food fish of the north atlantic and mediterranean. its body is greenish-blue with dark bars and small if any scales
mouse eared chickweed;any of various plants related to the common chickweed
python sebae;very large python of tropical and southern africa
glaucomys volans;small large-eyed nocturnal flying squirrel of eastern united states
bartram juneberry;open-growing shrub of eastern north america having pure white flowers and small waxy almost black fruits
herbivore;any animal that feeds chiefly on grass and other plants: 'horses are herbivores'. 'the sauropod dinosaurs were apparently herbivores'
potos caudivolvulus;arboreal fruit-eating mammal of tropical america with a long prehensile tail
wynnea sparassoides;a fungus with a long solid stalk embedded in soil and a cauliflower-shaped yellow-brown head
ground roller;madagascan roller with terrestrial and crepuscular habits that feeds on e.g. insects and worms
pine fern;fern of florida and west indies and central america with rhizome densely clad in grown hairs
corkwood tree;very small deciduous dioecious tree or shrub of damp habitats in southeastern united states having extremely light wood
scroll saw;narrow-bladed fine-toothed saw for cutting curved outlines
vervet;south african monkey with black face and hands
atlantic puffin;common puffin of the north atlantic
dryopteris oreopteris;common european mountain fern having fragrant lemon or balsam scented fronds
cloveroot;hairy eurasian plant with small yellow flowers and an astringent root formerly used medicinally
gobiesox strumosus;clingfish with typical skillet shape
yellow cypress;tall evergreen of north american pacific coast often cultivated for ornament
carya illinoensis;tree of southern united states and mexico cultivated for its nuts
pseudolarix amabilis;chinese larchlike deciduous conifer with golden yellow leaves
haliaeetus leucocephalus;large north american eagle having a white head and dark wings and body
hart s tongue;eurasian fern with simple lanceolate fronds
archaebacteria;considered ancient life forms that evolved separately from bacteria and blue-green algae
wolffish;large elongate scaleless oceanic fishes with sharp teeth and a long sail-like dorsal fin
vesper mouse;american woodland mouse with white feet and underparts
halophyte;plant growing naturally in very salty soil
sugar cane;tall tropical southeast asian grass having stout fibrous jointed stalks. sap is a chief source of sugar
deutzia;any of various shrubs of the genus deutzia having usually toothed opposite leaves and shredding bark and white or pink flowers in loose terminal clusters
day jessamine;west indian evergreen shrub having clusters of funnel-shaped white flowers that are fragrant by day
silverfish;silver-gray wingless insect found in houses feeding on book bindings and starched clothing
sulfur butterfly;any of numerous yellow or orange butterflies
field mouse;any of various small mouselike rodents of the family cricetidae esp. of genus microtus having a stout short-tailed body and inconspicuous ears and inhabiting fields or meadows
boletus mirabilis;a fungus that is edible when young and fresh. has a dark brown convex cap with a yellow to greenish under surface and reddish stalk
basil balm;fragrant european mint having clusters of small violet-and-white flowers. naturalized especially in eastern north america
snipefish;small bottom-dwelling fish of warm seas having a compressed body and a long snout with a toothless mouth
flowering plant;plants having seeds in a closed ovary
pistia stratiotes;pantropical floating plant forming a rosette of wedge-shaped leaves. a widespread weed in rivers and lakes
blue winged teal;american teal
mombin tree;common tropical american shrub or small tree with purplish fruit
herring hog;the common porpoise of the north atlantic and pacific
dall sheep;large white wild sheep of northwestern canada and alaska
sedum rosea;eurasian mountain plant with fleshy pink-tipped leaves and a cluster of yellow flowers
squash vine;any of numerous annual tendril-bearing trailing plants of the genus cucurbita grown for their fleshy edible fruits
genista tinctoria;small eurasian shrub having clusters of yellow flowers that yield a dye. common as weed in england and united states. sometimes grown as an ornamental
hepatic tanager;common tanager of southwestern united states and mexico
information processing system;a machine for performing calculations automatically
california pitcher plant;marsh or bog herb having solitary pendulous yellow-green flowers and somewhat twisted pitchers with broad wings below
common marigold;the common european annual marigold
syrian hamster;small light-colored hamster often kept as a pet
dichondra micrantha;a creeping perennial herb with hairy stems and orbicular to reniform leaves and small white to greenish flowers. used as a grass substitute in warm regions
chinkapin oak;medium-sized deciduous tree of the eastern united states that yields a strong durable wood
earless seal;any of several seals lacking external ear flaps and having a stiff hairlike coat with hind limbs reduced to swimming flippers
abies grandis;lofty fir of the pacific coast of northwestern america having long curving branches and deep green leaves
ragi;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
jack a lantern;a large poisonous agaric with orange caps and narrow clustered stalks. the gills are luminescent
gypaetus barbatus;the largest eurasian bird of prey. having black feathers hanging around the bill
diplopterygium longissimum;large scrambling fern forming large patches to 18 feet high. pacific region and china
cyrilliaceae;shrubs and trees with leathery leaves and small white flowers in racemes: genera cyrilla and cliftonia
papyrus;tall sedge of the nile valley yielding fiber that served many purposes in historic times
tree tobacco;evergreen south american shrub naturalized in united states. occasionally responsible for poisoning livestock
balaeniceps rex;large stork-like bird of the valley of the white nile with a broad bill suggesting a wooden shoe
dryopteris marginalis;north american fern with evergreen fronds
muhlenbergia schreberi;slender branching american grass of some value for grazing in central united states
broom;any of various shrubs of the genera cytisus or genista or spartium having long slender branches and racemes of yellow flowers
colorado fir;medium to tall fir of central to western united states having a narrow erect crown and soft wood
notophthalmus viridescens;red terrestrial form of a common north american newt
clon;a group of genetically identical cells or organisms derived from a single cell or individual by some kind of asexual reproduction
packrat;any of several bushy-tailed rodents of the genus neotoma of western north america. hoards food and other objects
butcherbird;large carnivorous australian bird with the shrike-like habit of impaling prey on thorns
cricket;leaping insect. male makes chirping noises by rubbing the forewings together
merlin;small falcon of europe and america having dark plumage with black-barred tail. used in falconry
south american sea lion;of the southern coast of south america
plumbago;any plumbaginaceous plant of the genus plumbago
pneumococcus;bacteria causing pneumonia
prince of wales  heath;south african shrub grown for its profusion of white flowers
hiccough nut;ornamental red-flowering african shrub or climber
false dragon head;north american plant having a spike of two-lipped pink or white flowers
lemon mint;mint with leaves having perfume like that of the bergamot orange
african tulip;african plant with bright green evergreen leaves and umbels of many usually deep violet-blue flowers
orpine;perennial northern temperate plant with toothed leaves and heads of small purplish-white flowers
alosa pseudoharengus;shad-like food fish that runs rivers to spawn. often salted or smoked. sometimes placed in genus pomolobus
chilean hazelnut;chilean shrub bearing coral-red fruit with an edible seed resembling a hazelnut
common garter snake;widespread in north america
piroplasm;minute parasite of red blood cells of mammals transmitted by a tick and causing diseases of domestic animals
fawn lily;california dogtooth violet with creamy white flowers sometimes yellow-tinged
penstemon palmeri;fragrant puffed-up white to reddish-pink flowers in long narrow clusters on erect stems. arizona to new mexico and utah
cucumber vine;a melon vine of the genus cucumis. cultivated from earliest times for its cylindrical green fruit
mexican flameleaf;tropical american plant having poisonous milk and showy tapering usually scarlet petallike leaves surrounding small yellow flowers
american turkey oak;small slow-growing deciduous shrubby tree of dry sandy barrens of southeastern united states having leaves with bristle-tipped lobes resembling turkey's toes
commelina;any plant of the genus commelina
athyrium filix femina;most widely grown fern of the genus athyrium for its delicate foliage
copper rockfish;of north american pacific coastal waters
erythrina crista galli;small south american spiny tree with dark crimson and scarlet flowers solitary or clustered
panthera pardus;large feline of african and asian forests usually having a tawny coat with black spots
red eyed vireo;of northern north america having red irises and a olive-gray body with white underparts
mole cricket;digs in moist soil and feeds on plant roots
annual salt marsh aster;a variety of aster
micropterus dolomieu;a variety of black bass. the angle of the jaw falls below the eye
tree;a tall perennial woody plant having a main trunk and branches forming a distinct elevated crown. includes both gymnosperms and angiosperms
delphinium ajacis;commonly cultivated larkspur of southern europe having unbranched spikelike racemes of blue or sometimes purplish or pinkish flowers. sometime placed in genus delphinium
prince s feather;tall showy tropical american annual having hairy stems and long spikes of usually red flowers above leaves deeply flushed with purple. seeds often used as cereal
polypodium vulgare;mat-forming lithophytic or terrestrial fern with creeping rootstocks and large pinnatifid fronds found throughout north america and europe and africa and east asia
catechu;east indian spiny tree having twice-pinnate leaves and yellow flowers followed by flat pods. source of black catechu
dock;any of certain coarse weedy plants with long taproots, sometimes used as table greens or in folk medicine
coffea robusta;native to west africa but grown in java and elsewhere. resistant to coffee rust
purple sanicle;sanicle of northwestern united states and british columbia having yellow or red or purple flowers
sensitive plant;semi-climbing prickly evergreen shrub of tropical america having compound leaves sensitive to light and touch
stick insect;any of various mostly tropical insects having long twiglike bodies
hard shell clam;an edible american clam
citrus grandis;southeastern asian tree producing large fruits resembling grapefruits
flowering onion;european onion with white flowers
fraxinus nigra;vigorous spreading north american tree having dark brown heavy wood. leaves turn gold in autumn
smut grass;grass native to west indies but common in southern united states having tufted wiry stems often infested with a dark fungus (helminthosporum_ravenelii)
waterweed;a weedy aquatic plant of genus elodea
woolly adelgid;an insect that feeds on hemlocks. its egg sacs are small fuzzy white balls like artificial snow on a christmas tree
great skua;large brown skua of the north atlantic
elymus caput medusae;weedy rye grass having long bristling awns
bloodwood tree;spiny shrub or small tree of central america and west indies having bipinnate leaves and racemes of small bright yellow flowers and yielding a hard brown or brownish-red heartwood used in preparing a black dye
mugo pine;low shrubby pine of central europe with short bright green needles in bunches of two
browallia;any of several herbs of the genus browallia cultivated for their blue or violet or white flowers
potato tuber moth;grayish-brown moth whose larva is the potato tuberworm
beech;any of several large deciduous trees with rounded spreading crowns and smooth gray bark and small sweet edible triangular nuts enclosed in burs. north temperate regions
ustilaginoidea virens;fungus causing green smut in rice
weaver;finch-like african and asian colonial birds noted for their elaborately woven nests
boar;old world wild swine having a narrow body and prominent tusks from which most domestic swine come. introduced in united states
polymonium caeruleum van bruntiae;pinnate-leaved european perennial having bright blue or white flowers
spinach beet;beet lacking swollen root. grown as a vegetable for its edible leaves and stalks
cinchona ledgeriana;peruvian shrub or small tree having large glossy leaves and cymes of fragrant yellow to green or red flowers. cultivated for its medicinal bark
capuchin;monkey of central and south america having a cowl of thick hair on the head
dimetrodon;carnivorous dinosaur of the permian in north america having a crest or dorsal sail
dotterel;rare plover of upland areas of eurasia
calamintha sylvatica;mint-scented perennial of central and southern europe
gold of pleasure;annual european false flax having small white flowers. cultivated since neolithic times as a source of fiber and for its oil-rich seeds. widely naturalized in north america
hydnocarpus wightiana;leathery-leaved tree of western india bearing round fruits with brown densely-hairy rind enclosing oily pulp that yields hydnocarpus oil
bush poppy;evergreen shrub of southwestern united states and mexico often cultivated for its fragrant golden yellow flowers
assassin bug;a true bug: long-legged predacious bug living mostly on other insects. a few suck blood of mammals
ratite bird;flightless birds having flat breastbones lacking a keel for attachment of flight muscles: ostriches. cassowaries. emus. moas. rheas. kiwis. elephant birds
leopard plant;any of various plants of temperate eurasia. grown for their yellow flowers and handsome foliage
seed oyster;a young oyster esp. of a size for transplantation
sea robin;american gurnard. mostly found in bays and estuaries
allium schoenoprasum;perennial having hollow cylindrical leaves used for seasoning
common white dogwood;deciduous tree. celebrated for its large white or pink flower-like bracts and stunning autumn color followed by red berries
mespilus germanica;small deciduous eurasian tree cultivated for its fruit that resemble crab apples
badger dog;small long-bodied short-legged german breed of dog having a short sleek coat and long drooping ears. suited for following game into burrows
panic grass;any grass of the genus panicum. grown for grain and fodder
macaque;short-tailed monkey of rocky regions of asia and africa
sweetbrier;eurasian rose with prickly stems and fragrant leaves and bright pink flowers followed by scarlet hips
crinkleroot;north american herb with pungent scaly or toothed roots
pocketed freetail bat;small brown bat of california and northern mexico
eriogonum;any plant of the genus eriogonum with small clustered flowers
affenpinscher;european breed of small dog resembling a terrier with dark wiry hair and a tufted muzzle
amphibian;cold-blooded vertebrate typically living on land but breeding in water. aquatic larvae undergo metamorphosis into adult form
solanum carolinense;coarse prickly weed having pale yellow flowers and yellow berrylike fruit. common throughout southern and eastern united states
bowiea volubilis;much-branched leafless twining south african herb cultivated as an ornamental for its bright green stems growing from large above-ground bulbs
icicle plant;old world annual widely naturalized in warm regions having white flowers and fleshy foliage covered with icelike hairs
canafistola;deciduous or semi-evergreen tree having scented sepia to yellow flowers in drooping racemes and pods whose pulp is used medicinally. tropical asia and central and south america and australia
ictodosaur;intermediate in form between the therapsids and most primitive true mammals
cycas circinalis;southeastern indian cycad with palmlike foliage
fuji;shrubby japanese tree having pale pink blossoms
lemon mint;an annual horsemint of central and western united states and northern mexico
lawyer bush;stout-stemmed trailing shrub of new zealand that scrambles over other growth
parthenium hysterophorus;tropical american annual weed with small radiate heads of white flowers. adventive in southern united states
arrowleaf groundsel;perennial with sharply toothed triangular leaves on leafy stems bearing a cluster of yellow flower heads. moist places in mountains of western north america
yellow perch;north american perch
castanea dentata;large tree found from maine to alabama
wether;male sheep esp. a castrated one
dog fennel;weedy plant of southeastern united states having divided leaves and long clusters of greenish flowers
brittle fern;delicate fern widely distributed in north america and european having thin pinnatifid fronds with brittle stems
sweet white violet;short-stemmed violet of eastern north america having fragrant purple-veined white flowers
impact printer;a printer that prints by mechanical impacts
plum tree;any of several trees producing edible oval smooth-skinned fruit with a single hard stone
reindeer moss;an erect grayish branching lichen of arctic and even some north temperate regions constituting the chief food for reindeer and caribou and sometimes being eaten by humans
helianthus annuus;annual sunflower grown for silage and for its seeds which are a source of oil. common throughout united states and much of north america
flamboyant tree;tropical shrub or small tree having showy yellow to orange-red flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
indian madder;perennial east indian creeping or climbing herb used for dye in the orient
sea rocket;salt-tolerant seashore annual grown for its fragrant rose or violet flowers and fleshy gray-green foliage
jujube bush;spiny tree having dark red edible fruits
swamp bay;shrub or small tree having rather small fragrant white flowers. abundant in southeastern united states
daffodil;any of numerous varieties of narcissus plants having showy often yellow flowers with a trumpet-shaped central crown
madia oil plant;south american herb with sticky glandular foliage. source of madia oil
california pompano;smaller than florida pompano. common in west indies
parus bicolor;crested titmouse of eastern and midwestern united states
jew s ear;widely distributed edible fungus shaped like a human ear and growing on decaying wood
wild plum;an uncultivated plum tree or shrub
tomato plant;native to south america. widely cultivated in many varieties
beefwood;a hard-wooded tropical tree yielding balata gum and heavy red timber
quercus virginiana;medium-sized evergreen native to eastern north america to the east coast of mexico. often cultivated as shade tree for it wide-spreading crown. extremely hard tough durable wood once used in shipbuilding
hamamelis vernalis;fragrant shrub of lower mississippi valley having very small flowers from midwinter to spring
imperial mammoth;largest known mammoth. of america
verbesina alternifolia;perennial herb with showy yellow flowers. the eastern united states
bactrian camel;two-humped camel of the cold deserts of central asia
japanese sumac;small asiatic tree yielding a toxic exudate from which lacquer is obtained
incense cedar;tall tree of north american pacific coast having cypress-like foliage and cinnamon-red bark
calaba;west indian tree having racemes of fragrant white flowers and yielding a durable timber and resinous juice
micropogonias undulatus;silvery-bodied with dark markings and tiny barbels
eastern white pine;tall-growing pine of eastern north america. bark is brown with longitudinal fissures when mature. valued as a timber tree
nopal;any of several cacti of the genus nopalea resembling prickly pears
dyeweed;small eurasian shrub having clusters of yellow flowers that yield a dye. common as weed in england and united states. sometimes grown as an ornamental
actinomyxidian;parasites of worms
fluke;parasitic flatworms having external suckers for attaching to a host
castanea mollissima;a small tree with small sweet nuts. wild or naturalized in korea and china
hibiscus;any plant of the genus hibiscus
siphonophore;a floating or swimming oceanic colony of polyps often transparent or showily colored
ateles geoffroyi;arboreal monkey of tropical america with long slender legs and long prehensile tail
sorb apple tree;medium-sized european tree resembling the rowan but bearing edible fruit
sonoran whipsnake;both terrestrial and arboreal snake of united states southwest
infant s breath;eurasian herb with ample panicles of small white flowers. naturalized in north america
crataegus coccinea mollis;american red-fruited hawthorn with stems and leaves densely covered with short woolly hairs
viscacha;gregarious burrowing rodent larger than the chinchillas
frostweed;perennial of the eastern united states having early solitary yellow flowers followed by late petalless flowers. so-called because ice crystals form on it during first frosts
ground rattler;small pygmy rattlesnake
aythya ferina;heavy-bodied old world diving duck having a gray-and-black body and reddish head
flindersia schottiana;australian timber tree whose bark yields a poison
yellow goatfish;schooling goatfish. grayish with yellow stripe
boston ivy;asiatic vine with three-lobed leaves and purple berries
catamount;short-tailed wildcats with usually tufted ears. valued for their fur
lovoa klaineana;tropical african timber tree with mahoganylike wood
white leaved rockrose;compact white pubescent shrub of southwestern europe having pink flowers
morchella semilibera;a morel with the ridged and pitted fertile portion attached to the stipe for about half its length
menippe mercenaria;large edible crab of s coat of united states especially florida
curassow;large crested arboreal game bird of warm parts of the americas having long legs and tails. highly esteemed as game and food
serratula tinctoria;european perennial whose serrate leaves yield a yellow dye
gymnorhina tibicen;crow-sized black-and-white bird. a good mimic often caged
panicled aster;a variety of aster
whitethroat;old world warbler similar to the greater whitethroat but smaller
western australia coral pea;vigorous climber of the forests of western australia. grown for their dense racemes of attractive bright rose-purple flowers
chambered nautilus;cephalopod of the indian and pacific oceans having a spiral shell with pale pearly partitions
gametophyte;the gamete-producing individual or phase in the life cycle of a plant having alternation of generations
bird s foot clover;european forage plant having claw-shaped pods introduced in america
ramjet engine;a simple type of jet engine. must be launched at high speed
butterfly orchid;mexican epiphytic orchid having pale green or yellow-green flowers with white purple-veined lip
cephalopod;marine mollusk characterized by well-developed head and eyes and sucker-bearing tentacles
coscoroba;large white south american bird intermediate in some respects between ducks and swans
paspalum;tall tufted perennial tropical american grass naturalized as pasture and forage grass in southern united states
fruit tree;tree bearing edible fruit
long neck clam;an edible clam with thin oval-shaped shell found in coastal regions of the united states and europe
ophrys insectifera;european orchid whose flowers resemble flies
chalcis fly;a variety of chalcid fly
western chimpanzee;masked or pale-faced chimpanzees of western africa. distantly related to the eastern and central chimpanzees. possibly a distinct species
adiantum tenerum farleyense;named for a country house in barbados where it was discovered
red legged partridge;common western european partridge with red legs
maravilla;leafy wildflower having fragrant slender white or pale pink trumpet-shaped flowers. southwestern united states and northern mexico
eurasian kingfisher;small kingfisher with greenish-blue and orange plumage
invertebrate;any animal lacking a backbone or notochord. the term is not used as a scientific classification
florists;of china
brine shrimp;common to saline lakes
spirillum;any flagellated aerobic bacteria having a spirally twisted rodlike form
ginglymostoma cirratum;small bottom-dwelling shark of warm shallow waters on both coasts of north and south america and from southeast asia to australia
condylura cristata;amphibious mole of eastern north america having pink fleshy tentacles around the nose
sweet orange tree;probably native to southern china. widely cultivated as source of table and juice oranges
summer hyacinth;southern african herb with white bell-shaped flowers
clinid;mostly small blennioid fishes of coral reefs and seagrass beds
abies lasiocarpa;medium-tall rocky mountain timber tree having a narrow-conic tocolumnar crown
cultivar;a variety of a plant developed from a natural species and maintained under cultivation
chinese primrose;cultivated asiatic primrose
emberiza citrinella;european bunting the male being bright yellow
aster tripolium;a common european salt-marsh aster
water chickweed;small indian lettuce of northern regions
lumpfish;clumsy soft thick-bodied north atlantic fish with pelvic fins fused into a sucker. edible roe used for caviar
stream orchid;orchid growing along streams or ponds of western north america having leafy stems and 1 greenish-brown and pinkish flower in the axil of each upper leaf
black locust;large thorny tree of eastern and central united states having pinnately compound leaves and drooping racemes of white flowers. widely naturalized in many varieties in temperate regions
jungle hen;female jungle fowl
dunlin;small common sandpiper that breeds in northern or arctic regions and winters in southern united states or mediterranean regions
common spotted orchid;european orchid having lanceolate leaves spotted purple and pink to white or mauve flowers spotted or lined deep red or purple
bunchberry;creeping red-berried perennial herb distinguished by clustered leaf whorls at tips of shoots. greenland to alaska
tumblebug;any of various dung beetles
zapus hudsonius;widely distributed in northeastern and central united states and canada
turfing daisy;low densely tufted perennial herb of turkey having small white flowers. used as a ground cover in dry places. sometimes included in genus matricaria
rubus canadensis;north american dewberry
white spruce;medium-sized spruce of northeastern north america having short blue-green leaves and slender cones
britt;minute crustaceans forming food for right whales
spanish bayonet;stiff short-trunked yucca of southern united states and tropical america with rigid spine-tipped leaves and clusters of white flowers
christmas tree;medium to tall fir of western north america having a conic crown and branches in tiers. leaves smell of orange when crushed
venus s flytrap;carnivorous plant of coastal plains of the carolinas having sensitive hinged marginally bristled leaf blades that close and entrap insects
scaly fern;small european fern with chaffy leathery fronds
solitaire;extinct flightless bird related to the dodo
red spotted purple;similar to the banded purple but with red spots on underwing surfaces
solitaire;dull gray north american thrushes noted for its beautiful song
leontocebus oedipus;south american tamarin with a tufted head
asiatic buffalo;asiatic buffalo often domesticated for use as a draft animal
possum;small furry australian arboreal marsupials having long usually prehensile tails
sumach;a shrub or tree of the genus rhus (usually limited to the non-poisonous members of the genus)
indian tapir;a tapir found in malaya and sumatra
swamp blueberry;high-growing deciduous shrub of eastern north america bearing edible blueish to blackish berries with a distinct bloom. source of most cultivated blueberries
tragelaphus angasi;spiral-horned south african antelope with a fringe of white hairs along back and neck
starter;an electric motor for starting an engine
white tailed sea eagle;bulky grayish-brown eagle with a short wedge-shaped white tail. of europe and greenland
branchiopodan;aquatic crustaceans typically having a carapace and many pairs of leaflike appendages used for swimming as well as respiration and feeding
teucrium marum;mediterranean germander having small hairy leaves and reddish purple flowers. attractive to cats
chlorophyllum molybdites;a poisonous agaric with a fibrillose cap and brown scales on a white ground color. cap can reach a diameter of 30 cm. often forms 'fairy rings'
sword fern;any of several tropical ferns having more or less sword-shaped fronds including one from which the boston fern developed
rose chestnut;handsome east indian evergreen tree often planted as an ornamental for its fragrant white flowers that yield a perfume. source of very heavy hardwood used for railroad ties
thrips tobaci;injurious to onion plants and sometimes tobacco
white matsutake;a large white mushroom that develops brown stains as it ages. gills are white. odor is spicy and aromatic. collected commercially for oriental cooking the pacific northwest
hieracium aurantiacum;european hawkweed having flower heads with bright orange-red rays. a troublesome weed especially as naturalized in northeastern north america. sometimes placed in genus hieracium
characin fish;any freshwater fish of the family characinidae
camelina sativa;annual european false flax having small white flowers. cultivated since neolithic times as a source of fiber and for its oil-rich seeds. widely naturalized in north america
india rubber plant;large tropical asian tree frequently dwarfed as a houseplant. source of assam rubber
bitter almond;almond trees having white blossoms and poisonous nuts yielding an oil used for flavoring and for medicinal purposes
macaca irus;monkey of southeast asia, borneo and the philippines
bombax ceiba;east indian silk cotton tree yielding fibers inferior to kapok
cassowary;large black flightless bird of australia and new guinea having a horny head crest
quercus incana;small semi-evergreen shrubby tree of southeastern united states having hairy young branchlets and leaves narrowing to a slender bristly point
white elephant;albinic indian elephant. rare and sometimes venerated in east asia
viola odorata;european violet typically having purple to white flowers. widely naturalized
whale louse;amphipod crustacean parasitic on cetaceans
wall pellitory;herb that grows in crevices having long narrow leaves and small pink apetalous flowers
field mushroom;common edible mushroom found naturally in moist open soil. the cultivated mushroom of commerce
hordeum vulgare;grass yielding grain used for for breakfast food, animal feed and in malt beverages
jointed rush;rush of australia
pluvianus aegyptius;african courser that feeds on insect parasites on crocodiles
black henbane;poisonous fetid old world herb having sticky hairy leaves and yellow-brown flowers. yields hyoscyamine and scopolamine
fire beetle;tropical american click beetle having bright luminous spots
fingerflower;tall leafy european biennial or perennial having spectacular clusters of large tubular pink-purple flowers. leaves yield drug digitalis and are poisonous to livestock
eucalyptus camphora;medium-sized swamp gum of new south wales and victoria
spice tree;tree bearing aromatic bark or berries
lebistes reticulatus;small freshwater fish of south america and west indies. often kept in aquariums
homopteran;insects having membranous forewings and hind wings
white basswood;american basswood of the allegheny region
machinery;machines or machine systems collectively
granadilla;considered best for fruit
sphecoid;any of various solitary wasps
black rhinoceros;african rhino. in danger of extinction
hornpout;catfish common in eastern united states
lady s smock;a bitter cress of europe and america
serval;slender long-legged african wildcat having large untufted ears and tawny black-spotted coat
glasswort;fleshy maritime plant having fleshy stems with rudimentary scalelike leaves and small spikes of minute flowers. formerly used in making glass
cypripedium parviflorum;maroon to purple-brown orchid with yellow lip. europe, north america and japan
liquorice;deep-rooted coarse-textured plant native to the mediterranean region having blue flowers and pinnately compound leaves. widely cultivated in europe for its long thick sweet roots
chincherinchee;south african perennial with long-lasting spikes of white blossoms that are shipped in to europe and america for use as winter cut flowers
raphus cucullatus;extinct heavy flightless bird of mauritius related to pigeons
twinberry;shrubby honeysuckle with purple flowers. western north america
buttonwood;very large spreading plane tree of eastern and central north america to mexico
dipper;small north american diving duck. males have bushy head plumage
kochia scoparia;densely branched eurasian plant. foliage turns purple-red in autumn
manihot esculenta;cassava with long tuberous edible roots and soft brittle stems. used especially to make cassiri (an intoxicating drink) and tapioca
soft tick;tick lacking a dorsal shield and having mouth parts on the under side of the head
seaside daisy;slightly succulent perennial with basal leaves and hairy sticky stems each bearing a solitary flower head with narrow pink or lavender rays. coastal bluffs oregon to southern california
petunia;any of numerous tropical herbs having fluted funnel-shaped flowers
curlew;large migratory shorebirds of the sandpiper family. closely related to woodcocks but having a down-curved bill
hazelnut;any of several shrubs or small trees of the genus corylus bearing edible nuts enclosed in a leafy husk
samia cynthia;large asiatic moth introduced into the united states. larvae feed on the ailanthus
duckbilled platypus;small densely furred aquatic monotreme of australia and tasmania having a broad bill and tail and webbed feet. only species in the family ornithorhynchidae
shellbark hickory;north american hickory having loose gray shaggy bark and edible nuts
satureja hortensis;erect annual herb with oval leaves and pink flowers. used to flavor e.g. meats or soups or salads. southeastern europe and naturalized elsewhere
common lettuce;annual or perennial garden plant having succulent leaves used in salads. widely grown
allegheny vine;vine with feathery leaves and white or pinkish flowers. sometimes placed in genus fumaria
service tree;medium-sized european tree resembling the rowan but bearing edible fruit
robber frog;small terrestrial frog of tropical america
foeniculum vulgare dulce;grown especially for its edible aromatic bulbous stem base
jap clover;an annual of tropical asia naturalized in united states
buffalo bur;north american nightshade with with prickly foliage and racemose yellow flowers
spreading pogonia;orchid of northeastern united states with magenta-pink flowers having funnel-shaped lip. sometimes placed in genus pogonia
western tamarack;tall larch of western north america have pale green sharply pointed leaves and oblong cones. an important timber tree
mouse ear;any of various plants related to the common chickweed
horsebean;large shrub or shrubby tree having sharp spines and pinnate leaves with small deciduous leaflets and sweet-scented racemose yellow-orange flowers. grown as ornamentals or hedging or emergency food for livestock. tropical america but naturalized in southern united states
pistacia vera;small tree of southern europe and asia minor bearing small hard-shelled nuts
languas speciosa;cultivated for its shining oblong leaves and arching clusters of white flowers with shell-pink shading and crinkled yellow lip with variegated magenta stripes
symphytum officinale;european herb having small white, pink or purple flowers. naturalized as a weed in north america
spotted joe pye weed;north american herb having whorled leaves and terminal clusters of small pinkish or purple flower heads
mediterranean flour moth;small moth whose larvae damage stored grain and flour
herpes simplex;a herpes virus that affects the skin and nervous system
stone pine;medium-sized 2-needled pine of southern europe having a spreading crown. widely cultivated for its sweet almond-like seeds
goldenbush;any of various much-branched yellow-flowered shrubs of the genus chrysothamnus. western north america
scolytus multistriatus;a vector of the fungus causing dutch elm disease
onion mildew;fungus causing a downy mildew on onions
salmonid;soft-finned fishes of cold and temperate waters
sphyrapicus varius ruber;western north american sapsucker
bunya bunya tree;australian conifer bearing two-inch seeds tasting like roasted chestnuts. among the aborigines the tree is hereditary property protected by law
gar;primitive predaceous north american fish covered with hard scales and having long jaws with needle-like teeth
bufo americanus;common toad of america
fragaria virginiana;north american wild strawberry with sweet scarlet fruit. a source of many cultivated strawberries
pachysandra procumbens;low semi-evergreen perennial herb having small spikes of white or pinkish flowers. native to southern united states but grown elsewhere
eastern coral snake;ranges from central america to southeastern united states
reseda;any plant of the genus reseda
armeria maritima;tufted thrift of seacoasts and mountains of north temperate zone. occasionally grown as a ground cover
cotton seed tree;a shrub of salt marshes of eastern and south central north america and west indies. fruit is surrounded with white plumelike hairy tufts
saccharum munja;tough asiatic grass whose culms are used for ropes and baskets
actias luna;large pale-green american moth with long-tailed hind wings and a yellow crescent-shaped mark on each fore wing
scorzonera;perennial south european herb having narrow entire leaves and solitary yellow flower heads and long black-skinned carrot-shaped edible roots
coronilla varia;european vetchlike herb naturalized in the eastern united states having umbels of pink-and-white flowers and sharp-angled pods
cynipid gall wasp;small solitary wasp that produces galls on oaks and other plants
black widow;venomous new world spider. the female is black with an hourglass-shaped red mark on the underside of the abdomen
spicebush;straggling aromatic shrub of southwestern united states having fragrant brown flowers
basil;any of several old world tropical aromatic annual or perennial herbs of the genus ocimum
anthropoid;any member of the suborder anthropoidea including monkeys and apes and hominids
angler;fishes having large mouths with a wormlike filament attached for luring prey
jaguarondi;long-bodied long-tailed tropical american wildcat
mosquito;two-winged insect whose female has a long proboscis to pierce the skin and suck the blood of humans and animals
cheetah;long-legged spotted cat of africa and southwestern asia having nonretractile claws. the swiftest mammal. can be trained to run down game
rangifer tarandus;arctic deer with large antlers in both sexes. called reindeer in eurasia and caribou in north america
barklouse;any of several insects living on the bark of plants
almond tree;any of several small bushy trees having pink or white blossoms and usually bearing nuts
false saffron;thistlelike eurasian plant widely grown for its red or orange flower heads and seeds that yield a valuable oil
wild tamarind;a tamarindlike tree of the west indies and florida and mexico having long flat pods
elater;any of various widely distributed beetles
groundsel;eurasian weed with heads of small yellow flowers
albacore;large pelagic tuna the source of most canned tuna. reaches 93 pounds and has long pectoral fins. found worldwide in tropical and temperate waters
pyrola americana;evergreen of eastern north america with leathery leaves and numerous white flowers
asplenium adiantum nigrum;spleenwort of europe and africa and asia having pinnate fronds and yielding an astringent
portable computer;a personal computer that can easily be carried by hand
euphausia pacifica;food for jellyfish
ebola virus;a virus that causes viral hemorrhagic fever
dew worm;terrestrial worm that burrows into and helps aerate soil. often surfaces when the ground is cool or wet. used as bait by anglers
swainsona grandiflora;shrubby perennial of southern australia having downy or woolly stems and undersides of leaves and racemes of red to pink flowers
tang;any of various kelps esp. of the genus laminaria
eelgrass;submerged aquatic plant with ribbonlike leaves. old world and australia
wild garlic;pungent old world weedy plant
xeranthemum;any plant of the genus xeranthemum native to southern europe having chaffy or silvery flower heads with purplish tubular flowers
ponderosa;common and widely distributed tall timber pine of western north america having dark green needles in bunches of 2 to 5 and thick bark with dark brown plates when mature
giant granadilla;tropical american passionflower yielding the large granadilla fruit
red laver;edible red seaweeds
starflower;common old world herb having grasslike leaves and clusters of star-shaped white flowers with green stripes. naturalized in the eastern united states
stinking wattle;scrubby australian acacia having extremely foul-smelling blossoms
avena barbata;oat of southern europe and southwestern asia
hornbill;bird of tropical africa and asia having a very large bill surmounted by a bony protuberance. related to kingfishers
pignut hickory;an american hickory tree having bitter nuts
palm civet;spotted or striped arboreal civet of southeast asia and east indies
ground ivy;trailing european aromatic plant of the mint family having rounded leaves and small purplish flowers often grown in hanging baskets. naturalized in north america. sometimes placed in genus nepeta
deciduous holly;a holly tree
triglochin maritima;tufted perennial found in shallow water or marshland. sometimes poisons livestock
winterberry;deciduous shrub of southeastern and central united states
oregon alder;large tree of pacific coast of north america having hard red wood much used for furniture
lycopus virginicus;a mildly narcotic and astringent aromatic herb having small whitish flowers. eastern united states
sapele mahogany;african tree having rather lightweight cedar-scented wood varying in color from pink to reddish brown
brittlestar;an animal resembling a starfish with fragile whiplike arms radiating from a small central disc
mucor;any mold of the genus mucor
nerium oleander;an ornamental but poisonous flowering shrub having narrow evergreen leaves and clusters of fragrant white to pink or red flowers: native to east indies but widely cultivated in warm regions
skunkweed;tall sticky-leaved herb of the rocky mountains having an offensive smell
erythrina caffra;small semi-evergreen broad-spreading tree of eastern south africa with orange-scarlet flowers and small coral-red seeds. yields a light soft wood used for fence posts or shingles
baptisia lactea;erect or spreading herb having racemes of creamy white flowers. the eastern united states
robin;large american thrush having a rust-red breast and abdomen
naja nigricollis;aggressive cobra widely distributed in africa. rarely bites but spits venom that may cause blindness
alnus incana;native to europe but introduced in america
opisthocomus hoazin;crested ill-smelling south american bird whose young have claws on the first and second digits of the wings
begonia rex;any of numerous usually rhizomatous hybrid begonias derived from an east indian plant having rough-textured leaves patterned in silver and bronze and purple and red-brown with inconspicuous flowers
ringtail;raccoon-like omnivorous mammal of mexico and the southwestern united states having a long bushy tail with black and white rings
prince of wales fern;new zealand with pinnate fronds and a densely woolly stalks. sometimes included in genus todea
salix fragilis;large willow tree with stiff branches that are easily broken
beet armyworm;moth larva that eats foliage of beets and vegetables
mistle thrush;large european thrush that feeds on mistletoe berries
phytophthora infestans;fungus causing late blight in solanaceous plants especially tomatoes and potatoes
aroid;any plant of the family araceae. have small flowers massed on a spadix surrounded by a large spathe
mechanical man;an automaton that resembles a human being
quercus coccinea;medium-large thick-trunked deciduous tree of the eastern united states and southern canada having close-grained wood and deeply 7-lobed leaves turning scarlet in autumn
spotted water hemlock;tall biennial water hemlock of northeastern north america having purple-spotted stems and clusters of extremely poisonous tuberous roots resembling small sweet potatoes
wintergreen;any of several evergreen perennials of the genus pyrola
medick;any of several old world herbs of the genus medicago having small flowers and trifoliate compound leaves
yankee corn;corn having kernels with a hard outer layer enclosing the soft endosperm
banian tree;east indian tree that puts out aerial shoots that grow down into the soil forming additional trunks
applemint;mint with apple-scented stems of southern and western europe. naturalized in united states
clothes moth;any of several small yellowish or buff-colored moths whose larvae eat organic matter e.g. woolens
homo sapiens sapiens;subspecies of homo sapiens. includes all modern races
cotton thistle;biennial eurasian white hairy thistle having pale purple flowers. naturalized in north america
chicot;handsome tree of central and eastern north america having large bipinnate leaves and green-white flowers followed by large woody brown pods whose seeds are used as a coffee substitute
balaenoptera acutorostrata;small finback of coastal waters of atlantic and pacific
nonesuch clover;prostrate european herb with small yellow flowers and curved black pods. naturalized in north america
cock s eggs;weedy vine of argentina having solitary white flowers followed by egg-shaped white or yellow fruit
silver birch;european birch with silvery white peeling bark and markedly drooping branches
chinese lacquer tree;small asiatic tree yielding a toxic exudate from which lacquer is obtained
slave making ant;an ant that attacks colonies of other ant species and carries off the young to be reared as slaves
persian iris;bulbous iris native to asia minor cultivated for its pale lilac-colored flowers
crape jasmine;tropical shrub having glossy foliage and fragrant nocturnal flowers with crimped or wavy corollas. northern india to thailand
populus nigra italica;distinguished by its columnar fastigiate shape and erect branches
wild senna;north american perennial herb. leaves are used medicinally. sometimes placed in genus cassia
asplenium billotii;a spleenwort of western europe
crocodylus niloticus;a dangerous crocodile widely distributed in africa
eurypterid;large extinct scorpion-like arthropod considered related to horseshoe crabs
songbird;any bird having a musical call
araujia sericofera;robust twining shrub having racemes of fragrant white or pink flowers with flat spreading terminal petals that trap nocturnal moths and hold them until dawn
japanese lacquer tree;small asiatic tree yielding a toxic exudate from which lacquer is obtained
parus caeruleus;widely distributed european titmouse with bright cobalt blue wings and tail and crown of the head
bine;european twining plant whose flowers are used chiefly to flavor malt liquors. cultivated in america
ligustrum lucidum;erect evergreen treelike shrub of china and korea and japan having acuminate leaves and flowers in long erect panicles. resembles japanese privet
saxifraga stellaris;small often mat-forming alpine plant having small starlike white flowers. europe
subularia aquatica;small aquatic plant having tufted awl-shaped leaves in a basal rosette and minute white flowers. circumboreal
onychophoran;any of numerous velvety-skinned wormlike carnivorous animals common in tropical forests having characteristics of both arthropods and annelid worms
caiman sclerops;caiman with bony ridges about the eyes. found from southern mexico to argentina
pierid butterfly;any of numerous pale-colored butterflies having three pairs of well-developed legs
marsh fern;fern having pinnatifid fronds and growing in wet places. cosmopolitan in north temperate regions
dombeya;any of various shrubs or small trees of the genus dombeya grown for their rounded clusters of exquisite often sweet-scented flowers usually hanging beneath the leaves
saman;large ornamental tropical american tree withbipinnate leaves and globose clusters of flowers with crimson stamens and sweet-pulp seed pods eaten by cattle
acacia xanthophloea;african tree supposed to mark healthful regions
cercopithecus aethiops pygerythrus;south african monkey with black face and hands
nymphaea caerulea;blue egyptian lotus: held sacred by the egyptians
sistrurus catenatus;pygmy rattlesnake found in moist areas from the great lakes to mexico. feeds on mice and small amphibians
roller;pigeon that executes backward somersaults in flight or on the ground
ornithogalum thyrsoides;south african perennial with long-lasting spikes of white blossoms that are shipped in to europe and america for use as winter cut flowers
prickly pear cactus;cacti having spiny flat joints and oval fruit that is edible in some species. often used as food for stock
fireweed;an american weedy plant with small white or greenish flowers
pie plant;long-cultivated hybrid of rheum palmatum. stems often cooked in pies or as sauce or preserves
valley white oak;tall graceful deciduous california oak having leathery leaves and slender pointed acorns
heteroscelus incanus;tattler of pacific coastal regions
dwarf oak;deciduous shrubby tree of northeastern and central united states having a sweet edible nut and often forming dense thickets
buffer;a power tool used to buff surfaces
courser;swift-footed terrestrial plover-like bird of southern asia and africa
flying opossum;nocturnal phalangers that move with gliding leaps using parachute-like folds of skin along the sides of the body
eucalyptus globulus;tall fast-growing timber tree with leaves containing a medicinal oil. young leaves are bluish
tall goldenrod;a variety of goldenrod
mock orange;small flowering evergreen tree of southern united states
loddon pondweed;pondweed with floating leaves. of northern united states and europe
tea rose;any of several hybrid bush roses derived from a tea-scented chinese rose with pink or yellow flowers
piggy;a young pig
cod;major food fish of arctic and cold-temperate waters
centaurea cyanus;an annual eurasian plant cultivated in north america having showy heads of blue or purple or pink or white flowers
spiny lizard;desert lizard that feeds on ants
shrublet;dwarf shrub
bitis arietans;large african viper that inflates its body when alarmed
wild chervil;coarse erect biennial old world herb introduced as a weed in eastern north america
egret;any of various usually white herons having long plumes during breeding season
phacelia tanacetifolia;hairy annual of california to mexico with crowded cymes of small blue to lilac or mauve flowers
scarabaean;any of numerous species of stout-bodied beetles having heads with horny spikes
lugworm;marine worms having a row of tufted gills along each side of the back. often used for fishing bait
sitta carolinensis;bluish-gray nuthatch with black head and white breast. of eastern north america
rotary press;a machine for printing from a revolving cylinder
grass tree;elegant tree having either a single trunk or a branching trunk each with terminal clusters of long narrow leaves and large panicles of fragrant white, yellow or red flowers. new zealand
king salmon;large pacific salmon valued as food. adults die after spawning
rhus rhodanthema;evergreen of australia yielding a dark yellow wood
cherry laurel;frequently cultivated eurasian evergreen shrub or small tree having showy clusters of white flowers and glossy foliage and yielding oil similar to bitter almond oil
silver leaved nightshade;weedy nightshade with silvery foliage and violet or blue or white flowers. roundish berry widely used to curdle milk. central united states to south america
dowitcher;shorebird of the sandpiper family that resembles a snipe
morchella esculenta;an edible and choice morel with a globular to elongate head with an irregular pattern of pits and ridges
whitebark pine;small pine of western north america. having smooth gray-white bark and soft brittle wood. similar to limber pine
king nut hickory;hickory of the eastern united states resembling the shagbark but having a much larger nut
fragaria ananassa;widely cultivated
badger;sturdy carnivorous burrowing mammal with strong claws widely distributed in the northern hemisphere
orbignya phalerata;tall feather palm of northern brazil with hard-shelled nuts yielding valuable oil and a kind of vegetable ivory
foxtail grass;ground pine thickly covered with bristly leaves. widely distributed in barren sandy or peaty moist coastal regions of eastern and southeastern united states
bombay ceiba;massive tropical tree with deep ridges on its massive trunk and bearing large pods of seeds covered with silky floss. source of the silky kapok fiber
cynipid wasp;small solitary wasp that produces galls on oaks and other plants
blue sage;sage of western north america to central america having violet-blue flowers. widespread in cultivation
pochard;heavy-bodied old world diving duck having a gray-and-black body and reddish head
osmerus mordax;important marine and landlocked food fish of eastern north america and alaska
rock gunnel;slippery scaleless food fish of north atlantic coastal waters
lepidopteran;insect that in the adult state has four wings more or less covered with tiny scales
hedge nettle;perennial herb with an odorless rhizome widespread in moist places in northern hemisphere
holocephalan;fish with high compressed head and a body tapering off into a long tail
amaranthus caudatus;young leaves widely used as leaf vegetables. seeds used as cereal
trillium erectum;trillium of eastern north america having malodorous pink to purple flowers and an astringent root used in fold medicine especially to ease childbirth
antidorcas euchore;south african gazelle noted for springing lightly into the air
jay;crested largely blue bird
gerfalcon;large and rare arctic falcon having white and dark color phases
rauvolfia;any shrub or small tree of the genus rauwolfia having leaves in whorls and cymose flowers. yield substances used medicinally especially as emetics or purgatives
panthera onca;a large spotted feline of tropical america similar to the leopard. in some classifications considered a member of the genus felis
viola sylvatica;common european violet that grows in woods and hedgerows
pepper vine;any of various shrubby vines of the genus piper
mascarene grass;asiatic creeping perennial grass. introduced in southern united states as a dought-resistant lawn grass
oxeye;eurasian perennial herbs having daisylike flowers with yellow rays and dark centers
apodiform bird;nonpasserine bird having long wings and weak feet. spends much of its time in flight
tipu;semi-evergreen south american tree with odd-pinnate leaves and golden yellow flowers cultivated as an ornamental
grass finch;common north american finch noted for its evening song
pig s ears;an edible agaric with a brown fruiting body that is often compound
holly fern;any of various ferns of the genus polystichum having fronds with hollylike texture and gloss
icteria virens;american warbler noted for imitating songs of other birds
flamboyant;showy tropical tree or shrub native to madagascar. widely planted in tropical regions for its immense racemes of scarlet and orange flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
arctiid moth;stout-bodied broad-winged moth with conspicuously striped or spotted wings. larvae are hairy caterpillars
nutmeg yew;california evergreen having a fruit resembling a nutmeg but with a strong turpentine flavor
hylobates lar;smallest and most perfectly anthropoid arboreal ape having long arms and no tail. of southern asia and east indies
green hellebore;deciduous plant with large deep green pedate leaves and nodding saucer-shaped green flowers
common duckweed;of temperate regions except eastern asia and australia
ruff;common eurasian sandpiper. male has an erectile ruff in breeding season
butterfly orchis;mexican epiphytic orchid having pale green or yellow-green flowers with white purple-veined lip
acalypha virginica;weedy herb of eastern north america
cockchafer;any of various large european beetles destructive to vegetation as both larvae and adult
pond apple;small evergreen tree of tropical america with edible fruit. used chiefly as grafting stock
silkworm;larva of a saturniid moth. spins a large amount of strong silk in constructing its cocoon
stevia;any plant of the genus stevia or the closely related genus piqueria having glutinous foliage and white or purplish flowers. central and south america
erigeron canadensis;common north american weed with linear leaves and small discoid heads of yellowish flowers. widely naturalized throughout temperate regions. sometimes placed in genus erigeron
rockfish;marine food and game fish with dark longitudinal stripes. migrates upriver to spawn. sometimes placed in the genus morone (morone saxatilis)
armyworm;moth whose destructive larvae travel in multitudes
crevalle jack;fish of western atlantic and gulf of mexico
erysimum allionii;showy erect biennial or short-lived perennial cultivated for its terminal racemes of orange-yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus cheiranthus
candlewood;any of several resinous trees or shrubs often burned for light
felis silvestris;bushy-tailed european wildcat resembling the domestic tabby and regarded as the ancestor of the domestic cat
broadbill;tropical american heron related to night herons
aralia elata;deciduous clump-forming asian shrub or small tree. adventive in the eastern united states
vanilla;any of numerous climbing plants of the genus vanilla having fleshy leaves and clusters of large waxy highly fragrant white or green or topaz flowers
athyrium distentifolium;a lady fern with deeply cut leaf segments. found in the rocky mountains
marsh andromeda;erect to procumbent evergreen shrub having pendent clusters of white or pink flowers. of sphagnum peat bogs and other wet acidic areas in northern europe
cow shark;large primitive shark widely distributed in warm seas
low blueberry;low-growing deciduous shrub of northeastern north america having flowers in compact racemes and bearing sweet dark blue berries
marmalade orange;any of various common orange trees yielding sour or bitter fruit. used as grafting stock
chigetai;mongolian wild ass
white maire;small new zealand tree having red pulpy one-seeded fruit
chrysolepis chrysophylla;small ornamental evergreen tree of pacific coast whose glossy yellow-green leaves are yellow beneath. bears edible nuts
tsetse fly;blood-sucking african fly. transmits sleeping sickness etc.
maria;valuable timber tree of panama
betula lenta;common birch of the eastern united states having spicy brown bark yielding a volatile oil and hard dark wood used for furniture
ctenophore;biradially symmetrical hermaphroditic solitary marine animals resembling jellyfishes having for locomotion eight rows of cilia arranged like teeth in a comb
botaurus lentiginosus;a kind of bittern
orange blossom orchid;diminutive australian orchid with loose racemes of fragrant white flowers with purple and orange markings on the lip
antlion;winged insect resembling a dragonfly. the larvae (doodlebugs) dig conical pits where they wait to catch e.g. ants
hare wallaby;small australian wallaby that resembles a hare and has persistent teeth
five spot;california annual having white flowers with a deep purple blotch on each petal
red berried elder;common north american shrub or small tree
peludo;argentine armadillo with six movable bands and hairy underparts
white dog s tooth violet;north american dogtooth having solitary white flowers with yellow centers and blue- or pink-tinted exteriors
microtus richardsoni;of western north america
texas millet;annual weedy grass used for hay
ovibos moschatus;large shaggy-coated bovid mammal of canada and greenland. intermediate in size and anatomy between an ox and a sheep
water nymph;submerged aquatic plant having narrow leaves and small flowers. of fresh or brackish water
smoothbark;any of several australian eucalypts having the bark smooth except at or near the base of the trunk
protea mellifera;australian shrub whose flowers yield honey copiously
indri;large short-tailed lemur of madagascar having thick silky fur in black and white and fawn
synapsid;extinct reptile having a single pair of lateral temporal openings in the skull
bermuda maidenhair;delicate endemic bermudian fern with creeping rootstock
cedar;any of numerous trees of the family cupressaceae that resemble cedars
bee eater;colorful chiefly tropical old world bird having a strong graceful flight. feeds on esp. bees
eurasian hamster;a variety of hamster common to europe and asia
myxobacter;bacteria that form colonies in self-produced slime. inhabit moist soils or decaying plant matter or animal waste
quassia;handsome south american shrub or small tree having bright scarlet flowers and yielding a valuable fine-grained yellowish wood. yields the bitter drug quassia from its wood and bark
polecat weed;deciduous perennial low-growing fetid swamp plant of eastern north america having minute flowers enclosed in a mottled greenish or purple cowl-shaped spathe
cabbage palm;low-growing fan-leaved palm of coastal southern united states having edible leaf buds
crotalus horridus atricaudatus;southern variety
dichondra;a creeping perennial herb with hairy stems and orbicular to reniform leaves and small white to greenish flowers. used as a grass substitute in warm regions
lamium amplexicaule;eurasian plant having toothed leaves and small two-lipped white or purplish-red flowers
mycobacteria;rod-shaped bacteria some saprophytic or causing diseases
schizachyrium scoparium;handsome hardy north american grass with foliage turning pale bronze in autumn
riparia riparia;swallow of the northern hemisphere that nests in tunnels dug in clay or sand banks
lily of the valley;low-growing perennial plant having usually two large oblong lanceolate leaves and a raceme of small fragrant nodding bell-shaped flowers followed by scarlet berries
vizla;hungarian hunting dog resembling the weimaraner but having a rich deep red coat
rydberg s penstemon;plant with whorls of small dark blue-violet flowers. washington to wyoming and south to california and colorado
senecio glabellus;american ragwort with yellow flowers
hydrochoerus hydrochaeris;pig-sized tailless south american amphibious rodent with partly webbed feet. largest living rodent
homo rhodesiensis;a primitive hominid resembling neanderthal man but living in africa
ailanthus silkworm;large green silkworm of the cynthia moth
cajan pea;tropical woody herb with showy yellow flowers and flat pods. much cultivated in the tropics
sium latifolium;large stout white-flowered perennial found wild in shallow fresh water. europe
caoutchouc tree;deciduous tree of the amazon and orinoco rivers having leathery leaves and fragrant yellow-white flowers. the rubber tree usually cultivated in plantations. chief source of para rubber
asiatic sweetleaf;deciduous shrub of eastern asia bearing decorative bright blue fruit
creeping willow;small trailing bush of europe and asia having straggling branches with silky green leaves of which several varieties are cultivated
australian coral snake;small venomous but harmless snake marked with black-and-white on red
planing machine;a power tool for smoothing or shaping wood
ectoparasite;any external parasitic organism (as fleas)
pipistrellus pipistrellus;small european brown bat
pericallis cruenta;herb of canary islands widely cultivated for its blue or purple or red or variegated daisylike flowers
toy;any of several breeds of very small dogs kept purely as pets
hevea brasiliensis;deciduous tree of the amazon and orinoco rivers having leathery leaves and fragrant yellow-white flowers. the rubber tree usually cultivated in plantations. chief source of para rubber
mulberry fig;thick-branched wide-spreading tree of africa and adjacent southwestern asia often buttressed with branches rising from near the ground. produces cluster of edible but inferior figs on short leafless twigs. the biblical sycamore
larix siberica;medium-sized larch of northeastern russia and siberia having narrowly conic crown and soft narrow bright-green leaves. used in cultivation
persimmon tree;any of several tropical trees of the genus diospyros
parry s pinyon;5-needled pinon of southern california and northern baja california having (sometimes 3- or 4-needled showing hybridization from pinus californiarum)
toothed spurge;an annual weed of northeastern north america with dentate leaves
foxhound;medium-sized glossy-coated hounds developed for hunting foxes
toxicodendron radicans;climbing plant common in eastern and central united states with ternate leaves and greenish flowers followed by white berries. yields an irritating oil that causes a rash on contact
chinese hibiscus;large showy asiatic shrub or small tree having large single or double red to deep-red flowers
black turnstone;common turnstone of north american pacific coast
flying mouse;tiny flying phalanger
june grass;valuable meadow and pasture grass in europe and especially central united states having tall stalks and slender bright green leaves. a chief constituent in lawn grass mixtures
rock dove;pale gray eurasian pigeon having black-striped wings from which most domestic species are descended
bull snake;any of several large harmless rodent-eating north american burrowing snakes
populus tremuloides;slender aspen native to north america
melophagus ovinus;wingless fly that is an external parasite on sheep and cattle
plesiosaur;extinct marine reptile with a small head on a long neck a short tail and four paddle-shaped limbs. of the jurassic and cretaceous
purple nightshade;weedy nightshade with silvery foliage and violet or blue or white flowers. roundish berry widely used to curdle milk. central united states to south america
carlina vulgaris;eurasian thistle growing in sand dunes and dry chalky soils
katharobe;an organism that lives in an oxygenated medium lacking organic matter
makaira albida;small marlin (to 180 pounds) of western atlantic
cepphus columba;north pacific guillemot
oryza sativa;yields the staple food of 50 percent of world's population
bombardier beetle;beetle that ejects audibly a pungent vapor when disturbed
annona cherimola;small tropical american tree bearing round or oblong soft-fleshed fruit
jack crevalle;fish of western atlantic and gulf of mexico
calabur tree;a fast-growing tropical american evergreen having white flowers and white fleshy edible fruit. bark yields a silky fiber used in cordage and wood is valuable for staves
anisotremus virginicus;black and gold grunt found from bermuda to caribbean to brazil
bouteloua eriopoda;especially of western coastal regions of north america
biont;a discrete unit of living matter
spider fern;asiatic fern introduced in america
antirrhinum majus;perennial native to the mediterranean but widely cultivated for its purple or pink flowers
helminth;worm that is parasitic on the intestines of vertebrates especially roundworms and tapeworms and flukes
momordica charantia;tropical old world vine with yellow-orange fruit
fever tree;african tree supposed to mark healthful regions
japanese maple;ornamental shrub or small tree of japan and korea with deeply incised leaves. cultivated in many varieties
collinsia verna;eastern united states plant with whorls of blue-and-white flowers
velvet sumac;deciduous shrubby tree or eastern north america with compound leaves that turn brilliant red in fall and dense panicles of greenish yellow flowers followed by crimson acidic berries
ambystoma tigrinum;widely distributed brown or black north american salamander with vertical yellowish blotches
inula;any plant of the genus inula
pyrola minor;the common wintergreen having many-flowered racemes of pink-tinged white flowers. europe and north america
impala lily;south african shrub having a swollen succulent stem and bearing showy pink and white flowers after the leaves fall. popular as an ornamental in tropics
potato;annual native to south america having underground stolons bearing edible starchy tubers. widely cultivated as a garden vegetable. vines are poisonous
goosefoot maple;maple of eastern north america with striped bard and large 2-lobed leaves clear yellow in autumn
falcon gentle;female falcon esp. a female peregrine falcon
rainbow fish;small freshwater fish of south america and west indies. often kept in aquariums
capercailzie;large black old world grouse
snowbird;small north american finch seen chiefly in winter
love in a mist;chickweed with hairy silver-gray leaves and rather large white flowers
asplenium scolopendrium;eurasian fern with simple lanceolate fronds
thrasher;a machine for separating seeds or grain from the husks and straw
acanthoscelides obtectus;larvae live in and feed on growing or stored beans
marsh orchid;any of several orchids of the genus dactylorhiza having fingerlike tuberous roots. europe and mediterranean region
gaywings;common trailing perennial milkwort of eastern north america having leaves like wintergreen and usually rosy-purple flowers with winged sepals
kangaroo mouse;leaping rodent of australian desert areas
common corn salad;widely cultivated as a salad crop and pot herb. often a weed
pinus edulis;small compact 2-needled pinon of southwestern united states. important as a nut pine
neisseria gonorrhoeae;the pus-producing bacterium that causes gonorrhea
florida pompano;found in coastal waters new england to brazil except clear waters of west indies
purple mullein;eurasian mullein with showy purple or pink flowers
western ladies;similar to spiranthes romanzoffiana.states
bigeye;red fishes of american coastal tropical waters having very large eyes and rough scales
mealy bug;scale-like plant-eating insect coated with a powdery waxy secretion. destructive esp. of fruit trees
sceloporus undulatus;small active lizard of united states and north to british columbia
mahuang;chinese ephedra yielding ephedrine
tripletail;large food fish of warm waters worldwide having long anal and dorsal fins that with caudal fin suggest a three-lobed tail
dactylorhiza maculata fuchsii;european orchid having lanceolate leaves spotted purple and pink to white or mauve flowers spotted or lined deep red or purple
cladrastis kentukea;small handsome round-headed deciduous tree having showy white flowers in terminal clusters and heavy hardwood yielding yellow dye
indian pink;north american lobelia having brilliant red flowers
puccoon;perennial woodland native of north america having a red root and red sap and bearing a solitary lobed leave and white flower in early spring and having acrid emetic properties. rootstock used as a stimulant and expectorant
large leaved aster;tufted perennial wood aster of north america. naturalized in europe
american laurel;a north american evergreen shrub having glossy leaves and white or rose-colored flowers
pterocarpus santalinus;tree of india and east indies yielding a hard fragrant timber prized for cabinetwork and dark red heartwood used as a dyewood
purple pea;any of several attractive evergreen shrubs of australia grown for their glossy deep green hollylike foliage and flowers in rich blues and intense violets
microcomputer;a small computer based on a microprocessor
arrowworm;any worm of the chaetognatha. transparent marine worm with horizontal lateral and caudal fins and a row of movable curved spines at each side of the mouth
green gentian;tall herb with panicles of white flowers flushed with green. northwestern united states. sometimes placed in genus swertia
colubrid snake;mostly harmless temperate-to-tropical terrestrial or arboreal or aquatic snakes
pubic louse;infests the pubic region of the human body
rainbow runner;streamlined cigar-shaped jack. good game fish
parathelypteris novae boracensis;slender shield fern of moist woods of eastern north america. sometimes placed in genus dryopteris
cacatua galerita;white cockatoo with a yellow erectile crest
cochin china;asian breed of large fowl with dense plumage and feathered legs
blunt leaf heath;small erect shrub of australia and tasmania with fragrant ivory flowers
sand cat;a desert-dwelling wildcat
herbage;succulent herbaceous vegetation of pasture land
kitambilla;small shrubby spiny tree cultivated for its maroon-purple fruit with sweet purple pulp tasking like gooseberries. sri lanka and india
tree celandine;small central american tree having loose racemes of purple-tinted green flowers
scomberomorus maculatus;large commercially important mackerel of american atlantic coastal waters
peat moss;any of various pale or ashy mosses of the genus sphagnum whose decomposed remains form peat
aphrophora saratogensis;feeds on pines in northern united states
pacer;a horse used to set the pace in racing
rhapis humilis;chinese lady palm with more slender stems and finer sheath fibers than rhapis excelsa
shagbark hickory;north american hickory having loose gray shaggy bark and edible nuts
strawworm;larva of chalcid flies injurious to the straw of wheat and other grains
cypripedium calceolus pubescens;plant of eastern and central north america having slightly fragrant purple-marked greenish-yellow flowers
felis chaus;small asiatic wildcat
fiddlehead fern;new world fern having woolly cinnamon-colored spore-bearing fronds in early spring later surrounded by green fronds. the early uncurling fronds are edible
tower mustard;european cress having stiff erect stems. sometimes placed in genus turritis
false gavial;crocodile of southeast asia similar to but smaller than the gavial
gracula religiosa;glossy black asiatic starling often taught to mimic speech
lathyrus hirsutus;week-stemmed winter annual native to mediterranean region for long established in southern united states. cultivated as a cover and pasture crop
macadamia tree;any tree of the genus macadamia
dwarf elder;dwarf herbaceous elder of europe having pink flowers and a nauseous odor
pointer;a strong slender smooth-haired dog of spanish origin having a white coat with brown or black patches. scents out and points game
emberiza aureola;common in russia and siberia
yellowfin tuna;may reach 400 pounds. worldwide in tropics
angoumois grain moth;small moth whose larvae feed on kernels of stored grains
eupatorium maculatum;north american herb having whorled leaves and terminal clusters of small pinkish or purple flower heads
anemone virginiana;thimbleweed of central and eastern north america
prairie rattlesnake;widely distributed between the mississippi and the rockies
prairie lotus;north american annual with red or rose-colored flowers
silphium laciniatum;north american perennial having a resinous odor and yellow flowers
switch ivy;fast-growing evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having arching interlaced branches and racemes of white flowers
domestic silkworm moth;stocky creamy-white asiatic moth found almost entirely under human care. the source of most of the silk of commerce
merl;common black european thrush
gentian;any of various plants of the family gentianaceae especially the genera gentiana and gentianella and gentianopsis
scombroid;important marine food and game fishes found in all tropical and temperate seas. some are at least partially endothermic and can thrive in colder waters
prickly custard apple;small tropical american tree bearing large succulent slightly acid fruit
hookworm;parasitic blood-sucking roundworms having hooked mouth parts to fasten to the intestinal wall of human and other hosts
indian cobra;of tropical africa and asia
vicia sepium;european purple-flowered with slender stems. occurs as a weed in hedges
holly leaved cherry;california evergreen wild plum with spiny leathery leaves and white flowers
western diamondback rattlesnake;largest and most dangerous north american snake. of southwestern united states and mexico
brabancon griffon;a variety of brussels_griffon having a short smooth coat
prunella vulgaris;decumbent blue-flowered european perennial thought to possess healing properties. naturalized throughout north america
common spindle tree;small erect deciduous shrub having tough white wood and cathartic bark and fruit
plain wanderer;small australian bird related to the button quail. classified as wading bird but inhabits plains
crocuta crocuta;african hyena noted for its distinctive howl
whiptail;any of numerous very agile and alert new world lizards
lanseh tree;east indian tree bearing an edible yellow berry
redbird;crested thick-billed north american finch having bright red plumage in the male
polychete;chiefly marine annelids possessing both sexes and having paired appendages (parapodia) bearing bristles
parasitic jaeger;a variety of jaeger
regulus calendula;american kinglet with a notable song and in the male a red crown patch
helianthus angustifolius;sunflower of eastern north america having narrow leaves and found in bogs
electric typewriter;a typewriter powered by an electric motor
wild parsnip;biennial weed in europe and america having large pinnate leaves and yellow flowers and a bitter and somewhat poisonous root. the ancestor of cultivated parsnip
orache;any of various herbaceous plants of the genus atriplex that thrive in deserts and salt marshes
taraktagenos kurzii;east indian tree with oily seeds yield chaulmoogra oil used to treat leprosy
rozelle;east indian sparsely prickly annual herb or perennial subshrub widely cultivated for its fleshy calyxes used in tarts and jelly and for its bast fiber
caulophyllum thalictroides;tall herb of eastern north america and asia having blue berrylike fruit and a thick knotty rootstock formerly used medicinally
gosmore;european weed widely naturalized in north america having yellow flower heads and leaves resembling a cat's ears
camassia leichtlinii;west of cascade mountains
nelumbo nucifera;native to eastern asia. widely cultivated for its large pink or white flowers
geranium maculatum;common wild geranium of eastern north america with deeply parted leaves and rose-purple flowers
nigella damascena;european garden plant having finely cut leaves and white or pale blue flowers
dianthus deltoides;low-growing loosely mat-forming eurasian pink with single crimson-eyed pale pink flowers
mason bee;any of numerous solitary bees that build nests of hardened mud and sand
gentianopsis detonsa;medium-tall fringed gentian with pale-glue to blue-purple flowers. circumboreal in distribution
thatch tree;small palm of southern florida and west indies closely resembling the silvertop palmetto
staghound;a large heavy hound formerly used in hunting stags and other large game. similar to but larger than a foxhound
geomys pinetis;gopher of alabama georgia and florida
tussilago alpina;rhizomatous herb with purple-red flowers suitable for groundcover. sometimes placed in genus tussilago
common privet;deciduous semi-evergreen shrub used for hedges
antelope chipmunk;small ground squirrel of western united states
erolia alpina;small common sandpiper that breeds in northern or arctic regions and winters in southern united states or mediterranean regions
peacock;male peafowl. having a crested head and very large fanlike tail marked with iridescent eyes or spots
grayback;sandpiper that breeds in the arctic and winters in the s hemisphere
golden oak mushroom;edible east asian mushroom having a golden or dark brown to blackish cap and an inedible stipe
pied billed grebe;american grebe having a black-banded whitish bill
capparis arborea;small australian tree bearing edible pomegranatelike fruit
prairie trillium;trillium of central united states having dark purple sessile flowers
wild hollyhock;a rare mallow found only in illinois resembling the common hollyhock and having pale rose-mauve flowers. sometimes placed in genus sphaeralcea
roseate spoonbill;tropical rose-colored new world spoonbill
lynx caracal;of deserts of northern africa and southern asia
isurus glaucus;common blue-gray shark of southwest pacific. sport and food fish
charlock;weedy eurasian plant often a pest in grain fields
leucanthemum superbum;hybrid garden flower derived from chrysanthemum maximum and chrysanthemum lacustre having large white flower heads resembling oxeye daisies. often placed in the genus chrysanthemum
hugueninia tanacetifolia;perennial stellate and hairy herb with small yellow flowers of mountains of southern europe. sometimes placed in genus sisymbrium
parry manzanita;erect treelike shrub forming dense thickets and having drooping panicles of white or pink flowers and red berrylike drupes. california
pampas grass;tall perennial grass of pampas of south america having silvery plumes and growing in large dense clumps
cornus sanguinea;european deciduous shrub turning red in autumn having dull white flowers
anil;shrub of west indies and south america that is a source of indigo dye
phalaenopsis amabilis;orchid having large elliptic to obovate fleshy leaves and fragrant pink-and-white flowers dotted with red
yellow salsify;european perennial naturalized throughout united states having hollow stems with a few long narrow tapered leaves and each bearing a solitary pale yellow flower
water elm;eurasian elm closely resembling the american elm. thrives in a moist environment
jupati palm;a tall brazilian feather palm with a terminal crown of very large leathery pinnatisect leaves rising from long strong stems used for structural purposes
kiang;wild ass of tibet and mongolia
cichorium endivia;widely cultivated herb with leaves valued as salad green. either curly serrated leaves or broad flat ones that are usually blanched
carolina moonseed;woody vine of southeastern united states resembling the common moonseed but having red fruits
dryopteris thelypteris;fern having pinnatifid fronds and growing in wet places. cosmopolitan in north temperate regions
vaccinium ashei;shrub of southeastern united states grown commercially especially for canning industry
gossypium herbaceum;old world annual having heart-shaped leaves and large seeds with short grayish lint removed with difficulty. considered an ancestor of modern short-staple cottons
felis manul;small wildcat of the mountains of siberia tibet and mongolia
guar;drought-tolerant herb grown for forage and for its seed which yield a gum used as a thickening agent or sizing material
coffee rose;tropical shrub having glossy foliage and fragrant nocturnal flowers with crimped or wavy corollas. northern india to thailand
mutant;an animal that has undergone mutation
angler fish;fishes having large mouths with a wormlike filament attached for luring prey
brook trout;north american freshwater trout. introduced in europe
gymnosperm;plants of the class gymnospermae having seeds not enclosed in an ovary
fish duck;large crested fish-eating diving duck having a slender hooked bill with serrated edges
pterocarpus macrocarpus;tree of india and burma yielding a wood resembling mahogany
helmet orchid;any of numerous orchids of the genus pterostylis having leaves in a basal rosette and green flowers often striped purple or brown or red with the dorsal sepal incurved to form a hood
whitebarked pine;small pine of western north america. having smooth gray-white bark and soft brittle wood. similar to limber pine
cinnamon fern;new world fern having woolly cinnamon-colored spore-bearing fronds in early spring later surrounded by green fronds. the early uncurling fronds are edible
lion s beard;short hairy perennial with early spring blue-violet or lilac flowers. north america and siberia
tulip tree;tall north american deciduous timber tree having large tulip-shaped greenish yellow flowers and conelike fruit. yields soft white woods used especially for cabinet work
miniature poodle;a small poodle
northern cricket frog;of eastern and central united states
hottentot fig;low-growing south african succulent plant having a capsular fruit containing edible pulp
oat;annual grass of europe and north africa. grains used as food and fodder (referred to primarily in the plural: 'oats')
woodsia ilvensis;a common rock-inhabiting fern of northern temperate regions having rusty-brown stipes and lanceolate pinnate fronds
camphor daisy;annual of southern united states and mexico having bristly leaves and pale yellow flowers
housedog;a dog trained to guard a house
mare;female equine animal
eagle;any of various large keen-sighted diurnal birds of prey noted for their broad wings and strong soaring flight
habenaria peramoena;orchid of northeastern and alpine eastern north america closely related to the purple fringed orchids but having rosy-purple or violet flowers with denticulate leaf divisions
monocarp;a plant that bears fruit once and dies
hog plum bush;small native american shrubby tree bearing small edible yellow to reddish fruit
stake driver;a kind of bittern
scleroderma aurantium;an earthball fungus that is a dingy brownish yellow and a dark purplish interior. the peridium is covered with a pattern of small warts
greenbottle;blowfly with brilliant coppery green body
musca domestica;common fly that frequents human habitations and spreads many diseases
marguerite;tall leafy-stemmed eurasian perennial with white flowers. widely naturalized. often placed in genus chrysanthemum
round scad;small fusiform fish of western atlantic
ginkgo;deciduous dioecious chinese tree having fan-shaped leaves and fleshy yellow seeds. exists almost exclusively in cultivation especially as an ornamental street tree
dactylorhiza fuchsii;european orchid having lanceolate leaves spotted purple and pink to white or mauve flowers spotted or lined deep red or purple
sea holm;european evergreen eryngo with twisted spiny leaves naturalized on united states east coast. roots formerly used as an aphrodisiac
bird dog;a gun dog trained to locate or retrieve birds
creeper;any of various small insectivorous birds of the northern hemisphere that climb about on trees
french marigold;strong-scented bushy annual with orange or yellow flower heads marked with red. mexico and guatemala
lepus californicus;the common jackrabbit of grasslands and open areas of western united states. has large black-tipped ears and black streak on the tail
beaver rat;amphibious rat of australia and new guinea
kangaroo paw;sedgelike spring-flowering herb having clustered flowers covered with woolly hairs. australia
lotte;fishes having large mouths with a wormlike filament attached for luring prey
greater masterwort;european herb with aromatic roots and leaves in a basal tuft and showy compound umbels of white to rosy flowers
pit bull terrier;american breed of muscular terriers with a short close-lying stiff coat
squaw grass;plant of western north america having woody rhizomes and tufts of stiff grasslike basal leaves and spikes of creamy white flowers
hygrophorus purpurascens;a fungus with a viscid purplish red cap and stalk. found under spruce and other conifers
hemipteron;insects with sucking mouthparts and forewings thickened and leathery at the base. usually show incomplete metamorphosis
calidris melanotos;american sandpiper that inflates its chest when courting
horse grain;twining herb of old world tropics cultivated in india for food and fodder. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
prunella modularis;small brownish european songbird
annona squamosa;tropical american tree bearing sweet pulpy fruit with thick scaly rind and shiny black seeds
beta vulgaris vulgaris;beet with a large yellowish root. grown chiefly as cattle feed
tulip orchid;mexican epiphytic orchid with glaucous gray-green leaves and lemon- to golden-yellow flowers appearing only partially opened. sometimes placed in genus cattleya
buffalo grass;short grass growing on dry plains of central united states (where buffalo roam)
new york aster;north american perennial herb having small autumn-blooming purple or pink or white flowers. widely naturalized in europe
lonicera periclymenum;european twining honeysuckle with fragrant red and yellow-white flowers
princess feather;annual with broadly ovate leaves and slender drooping spikes of crimson flowers. southeastern asia and australia. naturalized in north america
agave atrovirens;mexican plant used especially for making pulque the source of the colorless mexican liquor mescal
nasturtium officinale;perennial eurasian cress growing chiefly in springs or running water having fleshy pungent leaves used in salads or as a potherb or garnish. introduced in north america and elsewhere
mongrel;an inferior dog or one of mixed breed
begonia erythrophylla;rhizomatous begonia with roundish fleshy leaves reddish colored beneath
water mat;aquatic herb with yellowish flowers. central and western united states
blooming fool begonia;hybrid winter-blooming begonia grown for its many large pink flowers. derived from b dregei and b socotrana
artemisia gnaphalodes;perennial cottony-white herb of southwestern united states
white croaker;silvery and bluish drumfish of shallow california coastal waters
bean;any of various leguminous plants grown for their edible seeds and pods
blue false indigo;wild indigo of the eastern united states having racemes of blue flowers
sphacelotheca;genus of smut fungus
eastern narrow mouthed toad;small toad of southeastern united states
black eyed susan;annual weedy herb with ephemeral yellow purple-eyed flowers. old world tropics. naturalized as a weed in north america
evening grosbeak;north american grosbeak
cotoneaster dammeri;climbing evergreen shrub with white flowers and red berries. often used as ground cover
sand flea;small amphipod crustaceans that hop like fleas. common on ocean beaches
bilby;bandicoot with leathery ears like a rabbit
callirhoe digitata;perennial poppy mallow of united states southern plains states having rose-red or rose-purple flowers
balaenoptera physalus;large flat-headed whalebone whale having deep furrows along the throat. of atlantic and pacific
farley maidenhair;named for a country house in barbados where it was discovered
barberton daisy;widely cultivated south african perennial having flower heads with orange to flame-colored rays
araucaria heterophylla;evergreen of australia and norfolk island in the south pacific
cassia bark tree;chinese tree with aromatic bark. yields a less desirable cinnamon than ceylon cinnamon
pistacia terebinthus;a mediterranean tree yielding chian turpentine
nettle tree;any of various trees of the genus celtis having inconspicuous flowers and small berrylike fruits
straw foxglove;european yellow-flowered foxglove
collinsia parviflora;small widely branching western plant with tiny blue-and-white flowers. british columbia to ontario and south to california and colorado
hemipode;small quail-like terrestrial bird of southern eurasia and north africa that lacks a hind toe. classified with wading birds but inhabits grassy plains
red snapper;esteemed food fish with pinkish red head and body. common in american atlantic coastal waters and gulf of mexico
vireo olivaceous;of northern north america having red irises and a olive-gray body with white underparts
crataegus mollis;american red-fruited hawthorn with stems and leaves densely covered with short woolly hairs
sucking pig;an unweaned piglet
helmet orchid;any of several orchids of the genus coryanthes having racemes of a few musky-scented waxy flowers with a helmet-shaped lip process
coastal diving bird;gull family. skimmer family. jaeger family. auk family
pimento tree;aromatic west indian tree that produces allspice berries
rheum emodi;asian herb (himalaya)
fuchsia coccinea;erect or climbing shrub of brazil with deep pink to red flowers
amia calva;primitive long-bodies carnivorous freshwater fish with a very long dorsal fin. found in sluggish waters of north america
phytoplankton;photosynthetic or plant constituent of plankton. mainly unicellular algae
anthyllis barba jovis;silvery hairy european shrub with evergreen foliage and pale yellow flowers
ailanthus altissima;deciduous rapidly growing tree of china with sumaclike foliage and sweetish fetid flowers. widely planted in united states as a street tree because of its resistance to pollution
solidago multiradiata;goldenrod similar to narrow goldenrod but having bristly hairs on edges of leaf stalks. mountainous regions of western america
canary island hare s foot fern;fern of the canary islands and madeira
prairie white fringed orchid;of central north america. a threatened species
sweet cherry;large eurasian tree producing small dark bitter fruit in the wild but edible sweet fruit under cultivation
pearly nautilus;cephalopod of the indian and pacific oceans having a spiral shell with pale pearly partitions
buffalo clover;clover of western united states
edible podded pea;a variety of pea plant producing peas having soft thick edible pods lacking the fibrous inner lining of the common pea
orchard apple tree;native eurasian tree widely cultivated in many varieties for its firm rounded edible fruits
valerianella locusta;widely cultivated as a salad crop and pot herb. often a weed
old man s beard;common climber of eastern north america that sprawls over other plants and bears numerous panicles of small creamy white flowers
banting;wild ox of the malay archipelago
anteater;new guinea echidnas
rhus typhina;deciduous shrubby tree or eastern north america with compound leaves that turn brilliant red in fall and dense panicles of greenish yellow flowers followed by crimson acidic berries
moray;family of brightly colored voracious eels of warm coastal waters. generally nonaggressive to humans but larger species are dangerous if provoked
american cockroach;large reddish_brown free-flying cockroach originally from southern united states but now widely distributed
head cabbage plant;any of various cultivated cabbage plants having a short thick stalk and large compact head of edible usually green leaves
european black grouse;large north european black grouse with a lyre-shaped tail
cuckoo flower;a bitter cress of europe and america
umbrella plant;rhizomatous perennial herb with large dramatic peltate leaves and white to bright pink flowers in round heads on leafless stems. colonizes stream banks in the california sierra nevada
hop marjoram;dwarf aromatic shrub of crete
honeypot;south african shrub whose flowers when open are cup- or goblet-shaped resembling globe artichokes
genipa;any tree of the genus genipa bearing yellow flowers and edible fruit with a thick rind
medusan;any of numerous usually marine and free-swimming coelenterates that constitute the sexually reproductive forms of hydrozoans and scyphozoans
tussah;oriental moth that produces brownish silk
blueback salmon;small red-fleshed salmon of rivers and tributaries of the north pacific valued as food. adults die after spawning
atlantic sea bream;sea bream of warm atlantic waters
albizzia julibrissin;attractive domed or flalt-topped asiatic tree having bipinnate leaves and flowers with long silky stamens
false indigo;erect to spreading hairy shrub of united states pacific coast having racemes of red to indigo flowers
clammy chickweed;any of various plants related to the common chickweed
anabrus simplex;large dark wingless cricket-like katydid of arid parts of western united states
tall gallberry holly;an evergreen shrub
pica pica;common european magpie
broom sedge;tall tufted grass of southeastern united states
seal;any of numerous marine mammals that come on shore to breed. chiefly of cold regions
erinaceus europaeus;small nocturnal old world mammal covered with both hair and protective spines
apatosaurus excelsus;huge quadrupedal herbivorous dinosaur common in n. america in the late jurassic
nonvascular organism;organisms without vascular tissue: e.g. algae, lichens, fungi, mosses
pharomacrus mocino;very rare central american bird. the national bird of guatemala
balsam poplar;poplar of northeastern north america with broad heart-shaped leaves
herbaceous plant;a plant lacking a permanent woody stem. many are flowering garden plants or potherbs. some having medicinal properties. some are pests
hudsonia ericoides;north american decumbent evergreen heathlike plant with yellow flowers
man of the earth;tropical american prostrate or climbing herbaceous perennial having an enormous starchy root. sometimes held to be source of the sweet potato
christ plant;somewhat climbing bushy spurge of madagascar having long woody spiny stems with few leaves and flowers with scarlet bracts
burning bush;deciduous shrub having purple capsules enclosing scarlet seeds
tautoga onitis;large dark-colored food fish of the atlantic coast of north america
carrion flower;any of various plants of the genus stapelia having succulent leafless toothed cactus-like stems and large evil-smelling flowers often star-shaped
ground squirrel;small striped semiterrestrial eastern american squirrel with cheek pouches
bass;nontechnical name for any of numerous edible marine and freshwater spiny-finned fishes
field spaniel;large usually black hunting and retrieving spaniel with a dense flat or slightly wavy coat. cross between cocker and sussex spaniel
pony;any of various breeds of small gentle horses usually less than five feet high at the shoulder
white marlin;small marlin (to 180 pounds) of western atlantic
falcon;diurnal birds of prey having long pointed powerful wings adapted for swift flight
beggar s lice;any of various tropical and subtropical plants having trifoliate leaves and rough sticky pod sections or loments
moose;large northern deer with enormous flattened antlers in the male. called elk in europe and moose in north america
fistulina hepatica;a popular edible fungus with a cap the color of liver or raw meat. abundant in southeastern united states
pistol shrimp;small shrimp that makes a snapping noise with one of their enlarged chelae
squash bug;large black american bug that sucks sap of vines of the gourd family
dobson;large brown aquatic larva of the dobsonfly. used as fishing bait
lovebird;small australian parakeet usually light green with black and yellow markings in the wild but bred in many colors
matricaria matricarioides;annual aromatic weed of pacific coastal areas (united states. northeastern asia) having bristle-pointed leaves and rayless yellow flowers
giant helleborine;orchid growing along streams or ponds of western north america having leafy stems and 1 greenish-brown and pinkish flower in the axil of each upper leaf
prokaryote;a unicellular organism having cells lacking membrane-bound nuclei. bacteria are the prime example but also included are blue-green algae and actinomycetes and mycoplasma
campanula persicifolia;perennial european bellflower with racemose white or blue flowers
matteuccia struthiopteris;tall fern of northern temperate regions having graceful arched fronds and sporophylls resembling ostrich plumes
larix russica;medium-sized larch of northeastern russia and siberia having narrowly conic crown and soft narrow bright-green leaves. used in cultivation
mimosa;any of various tropical shrubs or trees of the genus mimosa having usually yellow flowers and compound leaves
spotted bat;large spotted bat of southwestern united states having enormous ears
anthemis arvensis;european white-flowered weed naturalized in north america
neritina;ornately marked and brightly colored snails of brackish waters
caesalpinia bonduc;tropical tree with large prickly pods of seeds that resemble beans and are used for jewelry and rosaries
palaquium gutta;east indian tree yielding gutta-percha
psetta maxima;a large brownish european flatfish
common laburnum;an ornamental shrub or tree of the genus laburnum. often cultivated for easter decorations
dusty miller;stiff much-branched perennial of the mediterranean region having very white woolly stems and leaves. sometimes placed in genus cineraria
spruce pine;common forest tree of the eastern united states and canada. used especially for pulpwood
fetterbush;showy evergreen shrub of southeastern united states with shiny leaves and angled branches and umbel-like clusters of pink to reddish flowers
douglas squirrel;far western united states counterpart of the red squirrel
spanish fly;green beetle of southern europe
yellow bedstraw;common yellow-flowered perennial bedstraw. north america and europe and asia
pinus resinosa;pine of eastern north america having long needles in bunches of two and reddish bark
hausen;valuable source of caviar and isinglass. found in black and caspian seas
cheat;weedy annual native to europe but widely distributed as a weed especially in wheat
peach leaved willow;willow of the western united states with leaves like those of peach or almond trees
soapfish;fishes with slimy mucus-covered skin. found in warm american atlantic coastal waters
sophora tetraptera;shrub or small tree of new zealand and chile having pendulous racemes of tubular golden-yellow flowers. yields a hard strong wood
false buckthorn;deciduous tree of southeastern united states and mexico
osteostracan;extinct jawless fish of the devonian with armored head
mirabilis longiflora;leafy wildflower having fragrant slender white or pale pink trumpet-shaped flowers. southwestern united states and northern mexico
honeysuckle;shrub or vine of the genus lonicera
leather carp;scaleless domestic carp
magnolia virginiana;shrub or small tree having rather small fragrant white flowers. abundant in southeastern united states
cassia tora;cosmopolitan tropical herb or subshrub with yellow flowers and slender curved pods. a weed. sometimes placed in genus cassia
fothergilla;any of several deciduous low-growing shrubs of the genus fothergilla having showy brushlike spikes of white flowers in spring and fiery red and orange autumn color. alabama to allegheny mts
melon;any of various fruit of cucurbitaceous vines including: muskmelons. watermelons. cantaloupes. cucumbers
diamondback;large deadly rattlesnake with diamond-shaped markings
camellia sinensis;extensively cultivated in e.g. china and japan and india. source of tea leaves
oak;a deciduous tree of the genus quercus. has acorns and lobed leaves. 'great oaks grow from little acorns'
kit fox;small gray fox of the plains of western north america
white lettuce;herb of northeastern north america having drooping clusters of yellowish-white flowers. sometimes placed in genus prenanthes
sugar sorghum;any of several sorghums cultivated as a source of syrup
budgerygah;small australian parakeet usually light green with black and yellow markings in the wild but bred in many colors
microorganism;any organism (animal or plant) of microscopic size
blinking chickweed;small indian lettuce of northern regions
new world porcupine;arboreal porcupine
sharp tailed grouse;large grouse of prairies and open forests of western north america
hyaena hyaena;of northern africa and arabia and india
argus pheasant;large brilliantly patterned east indian pheasant
sedum telephium;perennial northern temperate plant with toothed leaves and heads of small purplish-white flowers
stylomecon heterophyllum;california wild poppy with bright red flowers
lichanura trivirgata;boa of rocky desert of southwestern united states
round tailed muskrat;of florida wetlands
saintpaulia ionantha;tropical african plant cultivated as a houseplant for its violet or white or pink flowers
ball fern;feathery fern of tropical asia and malaysia
parry s penstemon;erect stems with pinkish-lavender flowers in long interrupted clusters. arizona
dimocarpus longan;tree of southeastern asia to australia grown primarily for its sweet translucent-fleshed edible fruit resembling litchi nuts. sometimes placed in genera euphoria or nephelium
urn fungus;an urn-shaped discomycete with a nearly black interior
grosbeak;any of various finches of europe or america having a massive and powerful bill
turk s cap lily;lily of the eastern united states with orange to red maroon-spotted flowers
trachurus trachurus;large elongated compressed food fish of european atlantic waters
calochortus macrocarpus;mariposa having loose umbel-like clusters of 1-3 handsome lilac flowers atop stout erect stems. arid northwestern north america east of cascade mountains from southern british columbia to northern california
pachyderm;any of various nonruminant hoofed mammals having very thick skin: elephant. rhinoceros. hippopotamus
cetorhinus maximus;large harmless plankton-eating northern shark. often swims slowly or floats at the sea surface
melilot;erect annual or biennial plant grown extensively especially for hay and soil improvement
cannabis;any plant of the genus cannabis. a coarse bushy annual with palmate leaves and clusters of small green flowers. yields tough fibers and narcotic drugs
atriplex hymenelytra;handsome low saltbush of arid southwestern united states and mexico having blue-green prickly-edged leaves often used for christmas decoration
ghostfish;eellike atlantic bottom fish with large almost vertical mouth
sarda sarda;medium-sized tuna-like food fish of warm atlantic and pacific waters. less valued than tuna
purple amaranth;tall showy tropical american annual having hairy stems and long spikes of usually red flowers above leaves deeply flushed with purple. seeds often used as cereal
wooly lip fern;small north american evergreen fern whose stipes and lower frond surfaces are densely wooly
asparagus officinales;plant whose succulent young shoots are cooked and eaten as a vegetable
devil s darning needle;common climber of eastern north america that sprawls over other plants and bears numerous panicles of small creamy white flowers
anemone;any woodland plant of the genus anemone grown for its beautiful flowers and whorls of dissected leaves
aster acuminatus;north american perennial with apparently whorled leaves and showy white purple-tinged flowers
red sorrel;east indian sparsely prickly annual herb or perennial subshrub widely cultivated for its fleshy calyxes used in tarts and jelly and for its bast fiber
mountain azalea;creeping mat-forming evergreen shrub of high mountain regions of northern hemisphere grown for its rose-pink flowers
chinch bug;small black-and-white insect that feeds on cereal grasses
garcinia gummi gutta;low spreading tree of indonesia yielding an orange to brown gum resin (gamboge) used as a pigment when powdered
greater knapweed;tall european perennial having purple flower heads
pilot whale;small dark-colored whaled of united states atlantic coast. the largest male acts as pilot or leader for the school
cercopithecus talapoin;smallest guenon monkey. of swampy central and west african forests
delichon urbica;common small european martin that builds nests under the eaves of houses
hemigalus hardwickii;e indian civet
bufo canorus;of high sierra nevada meadows and forest borders
pinon;any of several low-growing pines of western north america
arabian camel;one-humped camel of the hot deserts of north africa and southwestern asia
lewisia rediviva;showy succulent ground-hugging plant of rocky mountains regions having deep to pale pink flowers and fleshy farinaceous roots. the montana state flower
epidendrum venosum;mexican epiphytic orchid having pale green or yellow-green flowers with white purple-veined lip
dodo;extinct heavy flightless bird of mauritius related to pigeons
nerita peloronta;gastropod having reddish toothlike projections around the shell opening. of the caribbean area
chorizagrotis auxiliaris;moth whose larvae destroy grains and forage plants
zalophus californicus;often trained as a show animal
fetterbush;ornamental evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having small white bell-shaped flowers
common yellowwood;medium-sized tree of south africa
dun;horse of a dull brownish gray color
lobotes surinamensis;tripletail found from cape cod to northern south america
digitalis;any of several plants of the genus digitalis
entellus;langur of southern asia. regarded as sacred in india
walking fern;ferns having lanceolate fronds that root at the tip
cowpea plant;sprawling old world annual cultivated especially in southern united states for food and forage and green manure
king snake;any of numerous nonvenomous north american constrictors. feed on other snakes and small mammals
german chamomile;annual eurasian herb similar in fragrance and medicinal uses to chamomile though taste is more bitter and effect is considered inferior
crab;infests the pubic region of the human body
thatch palm;small palm of southern florida and west indies closely resembling the silvertop palmetto
largemouthed black bass;a large black bass. the angle of the jaw falls behind the eye
canada lynx;of northern north america
muscardinus avellanarius;a variety of dormouse
lentinus lepideus;a fungus with a scaly cap and white flesh and a ring on the stalk (with scales below the ring). odor reminiscent of licorice
daphne cneorum;widely cultivated low evergreen shrub with dense clusters of fragrant pink to deep rose flowers
nim tree;large semi-evergreen tree of east india. trunk exudes a tenacious gum. bitter bark used as a tonic. seeds yield an aromatic oil. sometimes placed in genus melia
caviuna wood;an important brazilian timber tree yielding a heavy hard dark-colored wood streaked with black
gelechia gossypiella;larvae of a gelechiid moth introduced from asia. feeds on the seeds of cotton bolls
centrarchid;small carnivorous freshwater percoid fishes of north america usually having a laterally compressed body and metallic luster: crappies. black bass. bluegills. pumpkinseed
oriolus oriolus;bright yellow songbird with black wings
streptopelia turtur;the common european wild dove noted for its plaintive cooing
coraciiform bird;chiefly short-legged arboreal nonpasserine birds that nest in holes
blood flower;tropical herb having orange-red flowers followed by pods suggesting a swallow with outspread wings. a weed throughout the tropics
sun spurge;not unattractive european weed whose flowers turn toward the sun
sheep plant;perennial prostrate mat-forming herb with hoary woolly foliage
plymouth rock;an american breed of domestic fowl
soya;erect bushy hairy annual herb having trifoliate leaves and purple to pink flowers. extensively cultivated for food and forage and soil improvement but especially for its nutritious oil-rich seeds. native to asia
proboscidea arenaria;alternatively placed in genus martynia
arvicola amphibius;common large eurasian vole
bastard indigo;dense shrub of moist riverbanks and flood plains of the eastern united states having attractive fragrant foliage and dense racemes of dark purple flowers
turbogenerator;a steam turbine is coupled to an electric generator for the production of electric power
dorbeetle;old world dung beetle that flies with a droning sound
xanthomonad;bacteria producing yellow non-water-soluble pigments. some pathogenic for plants
helvella crispa;a helvella with a saddle-shaped fertile part and creamy color. the stalk is fluted and pitted
leontopodium alpinum;alpine perennial plant native to europe having leaves covered with whitish down and small flower heads held in stars of glistening whitish bracts
combine;heads and threshes and cleans grain while moving across the field
pseudopleuronectes americanus;important american food fish in the winter
aquila chrysaetos;large eagle of mountainous regions of the northern hemisphere having a golden-brown head and neck
thomomys bottae;of valleys and mountain meadows of western united states
gristmill;a mill for grinding grain (especially the customer's own grain)
east indian rosewood;east indian tree having a useful dark purple wood
dipsacus sylvestris;european teasel with white to pink flowers. naturalized in united states
sylvilagus aquaticus;of southeastern united states swamps and lowlands
waterfowl;freshwater aquatic bird
swiss stone pine;large 5-needled european pine. yields cembra nuts and a resinous exudate
gray leaf pine;medium-sized 5-needled pine of southwestern california having long cylindrical cones
hamelia erecta;handsome shrub with showy orange to scarlet or crimson flowers. florida and west indies to mexico and brazil
purple stemmed aster;a variety of aster
gentiana saponaria;erect perennial of wet woodlands of north america having leaves and flower buds resembling those of soapwort
hake;any of several marine food fishes related to cod
bovine;any of various members of the genus bos
donald duck;a fictional duck created in animated film strips by walt disney
albula vulpes;slender silvery marine fish found in tropical mud flats and mangrove lagoons
fraxinus texensis;low-growning ash of texas
habenaria greenei;stout orchid of central california to northern washington having racemes of white fragrant bilaterally symmetrical flowers
amsinckia intermedia;annual of western united states with coiled spikes of yellow-orange coiled flowers
welsh onion;asiatic onion with slender bulbs. used as early green onions
saratoga spittlebug;feeds on pines in northern united states
american antelope;fleet antelope-like ruminant of western north american plains with small branched horns
common hops;european twining plant whose flowers are used chiefly to flavor malt liquors. cultivated in america
endozoan;any of various parasites that live in the internal organs of animals (especially intestinal worms)
christmas berry;spiny evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having spreading branches usually blue or mauve flowers and red berries
chamaecrista fasciculata;tropical american plant having leaflets somewhat sensitive to the touch. sometimes placed in genus cassia
selene vomer;similar to moonfish but with eyes high on the truncated forehead
chrysosplenium americanum;aquatic herb with yellowish flowers. central and western united states
arrow wood;deciduous shrub of eastern north america having blue-black berries and tough pliant wood formerly used to make arrows
hellebore;any plant of the eurasian genus helleborus
poon;any of several east indian trees of the genus calophyllum having shiny leathery leaves and lightweight hard wood
farkleberry;shrub or small tree of eastern united states having black inedible berries
cynara cardunculus;southern european plant having spiny leaves and purple flowers cultivated for its edible leafstalks and roots
hedgehog cereus;cactus of the genus echinocereus
olm;european cave-dwelling aquatic salamander with permanent external gills
cardinal;crested thick-billed north american finch having bright red plumage in the male
alfilaria;european weed naturalized in southwestern united states and mexico having reddish decumbent stems with small fernlike leaves and small deep reddish-lavender flowers followed by slender pinlike fruits that stick straight up. often grown for forage
castanea ozarkensis;shrubby tree closely related to the allegheny chinkapin but with larger leaves. southern midwest united states
trillium;any liliaceous plant of the genus trillium having a whorl of three leaves at the top of the stem with a single three-petalled flower
heterotheca villosa;hairy perennial with yellow flower heads in branched clusters. found almost everywhere in dry places from canada to west central and western united states. sometimes placed in genus chrysopsis
hypericum pyramidatum;perennial shrub having large star-shaped yellow flowers in narrowly pyramidal cymes
wire haired pointing griffon;breed of medium-sized long-headed dogs with downy undercoat and harsh wiry outer coat. originated in holland but largely developed in france
northern phalarope;breeds in arctic regions of old and new worlds. large flocks often seen far out at sea
cholla;arborescent cacti having very spiny cylindrical stem segments. southwestern united states and mexico
bottle gourd;old world climbing plant with hard-shelled bottle-shaped gourds as fruits
hop hornbeam;any of several trees resembling hornbeams with fruiting clusters resembling hops
gorilla;largest anthropoid ape. terrestrial and vegetarian. of forests of central west africa
mountain box;evergreen mat-forming shrub of north america and northern eurasia having small white flowers and red berries. leaves turn red in autumn
wolf fish;large ferocious northern deep-sea food fishes with strong teeth and no pelvic fins
taguan;east indian flying squirrel
rock hyrax;hyrax that lives in rocky areas
quillwort;any of several spore-bearing aquatic or marsh plants having short rhizomes and quill-like leaves. worldwide except polynesia
quercus texana;small deciduous tree having the trunk branched almost from the base with spreading branches. texas and southern oklahoma
epinephelus adscensionis;found around rocky coasts or on reefs
platanus acerifolia;very large fast-growing tree much planted as a street tree
bullock;young bull
sandwort;loosely matted plant with mosslike foliage studded with tiny starry 4-petaled white blossoms. mountains of central and southern europe
horseleech;any of several large freshwater leeches
solanopteris bifrons;small epiphytic fern of south america with tuberous swellings along rhizomesi
white false indigo;erect or spreading herb having racemes of creamy white flowers. the eastern united states
manihot utilissima;cassava with long tuberous edible roots and soft brittle stems. used especially to make cassiri (an intoxicating drink) and tapioca
grampus griseus;slaty-gray blunt-nosed dolphin common in northern seas
weka;flightless new zealand rail of thievish disposition having short wings each with a spur used in fighting
cairn;small rough-haired breed of terrier from scotland
setterwort;digitate-leaved hellebore with an offensive odor and irritant qualities when taken internally
harrier eagle;any of numerous large old wold hawks intermediate in some respects between typical hawks and typical eagles
tyrannid;a passerine bird of the suborder tyranni
genus zinjanthropus;genus to which australopithecus boisei was formerly assigned
sour cherry;rather small eurasian tree producing red to black acid edible fruit
scindapsus aureus;evergreen liana widely cultivated for its variegated foliage
aconite;any of various usually poisonous plants of the genus aconitum having tuberous roots and palmately lobed leaves and blue or white flowers
figeater;large greenish june beetle of southern united states
louse fly;blood-sucking dipterous fly parasitic on birds and mammals
summer snowflake;common old world herb having grasslike leaves and clusters of star-shaped white flowers with green stripes. naturalized in the eastern united states
blackfly;blackish aphid that infests e.g. beans and sugar beets
easter bunny;a rabbit that delivers easter eggs
long moss;dense festoons of greenish-gray hairlike flexuous strands anchored to tree trunks and branches by sparse wiry roots. southeastern united states and west indies to south america
strawflower;australian plant naturalized in spain having flowers of lemon yellow to deep gold. the choice everlasting of dried-flower lovers
hairy wood mint;a variety of wood mint
bridal wreath;chilean evergreen shrub having delicate spikes of small white flowers
urus;large recently extinct long-horned european wild ox. considered one of the ancestors of domestic cattle
senecio cruentus;herb of canary islands widely cultivated for its blue or purple or red or variegated daisylike flowers
guava;small tropical shrubby tree bearing small yellowish fruit
bitterwood;handsome south american shrub or small tree having bright scarlet flowers and yielding a valuable fine-grained yellowish wood. yields the bitter drug quassia from its wood and bark
dahl;tropical woody herb with showy yellow flowers and flat pods. much cultivated in the tropics
ovenbird;small brownish south american birds that build oven-shaped clay nests
golden thread;low-growing perennial of north america woodlands having trifoliate leaves and yellow rootstock and white flowers
mossy cup oak;medium to large deciduous oak of central and eastern north america with ovoid acorns deeply immersed in large fringed cups. yields tough close-grained wood
goat willow;much-branched old world willow having large catkins and relatively large broad leaves
poison ivy;climbing plant common in eastern and central united states with ternate leaves and greenish flowers followed by white berries. yields an irritating oil that causes a rash on contact
saturniid moth;large brightly colored and usually tropical moth. larvae spin silken cocoons
pride of california;shrubby california perennial having large pink or violet flowers. cultivated as an ornamental
pack rat;any of several bushy-tailed rodents of the genus neotoma of western north america. hoards food and other objects
centranthus ruber;european herb with small fragrant crimson or white spurred flowers
two spotted ladybug;red ladybug with a black spot on each wing
partridge;a popular north american game bird. named for its call
blue sage;texas sage having intensely blue flowers
reed rhapis;chinese lady palm with more slender stems and finer sheath fibers than rhapis excelsa
camphor tree;large evergreen tree of warm regions whose aromatic wood yields camphor
cassia alata;tropical shrub (especially of americas) having yellow flowers and large leaves whose juice is used as a cure for ringworm and poisonous bites. sometimes placed in genus cassia
unguiculata;in former classifications a major division of mammalia comprising mammals with nails or claws. distinguished from hoofed mammals and cetaceans
arctotis stoechadifolia;bushy perennial of south africa with white or violet flowers. in its native region often clothes entire valley sides in a sheet of color
leather flower;woody vine of the southern united states having purple or blue flowers with leathery recurved sepals
black pepper;climber having dark red berries (peppercorns) when fully ripe. southern india and sri lanka. naturalized in north burma and assam
cashew tree;tropical american evergreen tree bearing kidney-shaped nuts that are edible only when roasted
black gum;columnar tree of eastern north america having horizontal limbs and small leaves that emerge late in spring and have brilliant color in early fall
spurred gentian;any of various plants of the genus halenia having flowers with spurred lobes
scaphiopus multiplicatus;of the united states southwest
lathyrus niger;perennial of europe and north africa. foliage turns black in drying
copernicia australis;south american palm yielding a wax similar to carnauba wax
geglossaceae;a type of ascomycetous fungus
psoralea esculenta;densely hairy perennial of central north america having edible tuberous roots
little head snakeweed;similar to gutierrezia sarothrae but with flower heads having fewer rays and disk flowers
crown vetch;european vetchlike herb naturalized in the eastern united states having umbels of pink-and-white flowers and sharp-angled pods
lacerta agilis;a common and widely distributed lizard of europe and central asia
vireo solitarius solitarius;common vireo of northeastern north america with bluish slaty-gray head
king fern;large deeply rooted fern of worldwide distribution with upright bipinnate compound tufted fronds
groundsel bush;a shrub of salt marshes of eastern and south central north america and west indies. fruit is surrounded with white plumelike hairy tufts
shepherd dog;any of various usually long-haird breeds of dog reared to herd and guard sheep
italian millet;coarse drought-resistant annual grass grown for grain, hay and forage in europe and asia and chiefly for forage and hay in united states
red worm;terrestrial worm that burrows into and helps aerate soil. often surfaces when the ground is cool or wet. used as bait by anglers
quercus bicolor;large flaky-barked deciduous oak of the eastern united states with leaves having fewer lobes than other white oaks. yields heavy strong wood used in construction. thrives in wet soil
stinking weed;very leafy malodorous tropical weedy shrub whose seeds have been used as an adulterant for coffee. sometimes classified in genus cassia
apocynum cannabinum;canadian dogbane yielding a tough fiber used as cordage by native americans. used in folk medicine for pain or inflammation in joints
mountain anemone;silky-foliaged herb of rocky mts with bluish-white flowers
potato worm;large green white-striped hawkmoth larva that feeds on tomato and potato plants. similar to tobacco hornworm
sing kwa;loofah of pakistan. widely cultivated throughout tropics
red baneberry;north american perennial herb with ternately compound leaves and racemes of small white flowers followed by bright red oval poisonous berries
white ash;spreading american ash with leaves pale green or silvery beneath and having hard brownish wood
bladdernose;medium-sized blackish-gray seal with large inflatable sac on the head. of arctic-atlantic waters
amygdalus communis;small bushy deciduous tree native to asia and north africa having pretty pink blossoms and highly prized edible nuts enclosed in a hard green hull. cultivated in southern australia and california
prunus domestica;any of various widely distributed plums grown in the cooler temperate areas
pocket mouse;any of various small nocturnal burrowing desert rodents with cheek pouches and long hind legs and tail
chlorella;any alga of the genus chlorella
kola nut;tree bearing large brown nuts containing e.g. caffeine. source of cola extract
salix humilis;slender shrubby willow of dry areas of north america
musk hog;nocturnal gregarious pig-like wild animals of north and south america
arisaema dracontium;early spring-flowering plant of eastern north america resembling the related jack-in-the-pulpit but having digitate leaves, slender greenish yellow spathe and elongated spadix
yerba santa;viscid evergreen shrub of western united states with white to deep lilac flowers. the sticky aromatic leaves are used in treating bronchial and pulmonary illnesses
kumquat;any of several trees or shrubs of the genus fortunella bearing small orange-colored edible fruits with thick sweet-flavored skin and sour pulp
springbuck;south african gazelle noted for springing lightly into the air
peristedion miniatum;sea robins having bony scutes on the body and barbels on the chin. found mostly on the continental slope
clove;moderate sized very symmetrical red-flowered evergreen widely cultivated in the tropics for its flower buds which are source of cloves
prairie grass;handsome hardy north american grass with foliage turning pale bronze in autumn
cohune;tropical american feather palm whose large nuts yield valuable oil and a kind of vegetable ivory
trachurus symmetricus;a california food fish
medicago falcata;european medic naturalized in north america having yellow flowers and sickle-shaped pods
sweet shrub;hardy shrub of southeastern united states having clove-scented wood and fragrant red-brown flowers
great gray kangaroo;very large grayish-brown australian kangaroo formerly abundant in open wooded areas
wisteria floribunda;having flowers of pink to mauve or violet-blue
mulberry;any of several trees of the genus morus having edible fruit that resembles the blackberry
rhapis excelsa;small graceful palm with reedlike stems and leaf bases clothed with loose coarse fibers
surgeonfish;brightly colored coral-reef fish with knifelike spines at the tail
chat;birds having a chattering call
may blob;swamp plant of europe and north america having bright yellow flowers resembling buttercups
hiccup nut;ornamental red-flowering african shrub or climber
oyster catcher;black-and-white shorebird with stout legs and bill. feed on oysters etc.
spanish needles;common bur marigold of the eastern united states
yellow water flag;common yellow-flowered iris of europe and north africa, naturalized in united states and often cultivated
subalpine larch;medium-sized larch of north american rocky mountains. closely related to larix_occidentalis
epimedium grandiflorum;slow-growing creeping plant with semi-evergreen leaves on erect wiry stems. used as ground cover
black crappie;a crappie that is black
buzzard;common in south and central america and southern united states
cotoneaster horizontalis;deciduous flat-growing shrub with a fanned herringbone pattern and having reddish flowers and orange-red berries. used as a ground cover
smooth crabgrass;a weed
blue tulip;short hairy perennial with early spring blue-violet or lilac flowers. north america and siberia
coville;desert shrub of southwestern united states and new mexico having persistent resinous aromatic foliage and small yellow flowers
tarnished plant bug;widespread plant and fruit pest
dwarf iris;low-growing spring-flowering american iris with bright blue-lilac flowers
prunus lyonii;evergreen shrub or small tree found on catalina island (california)
cock;adult male bird
solanum dulcamara;poisonous perennial old world vine having violet flowers and oval coral-red berries. widespread weed in north america
arctic char;small trout of northern waters. landlocked populations in quebec and northern new england
ornithischian;herbivorous dinosaur with a pelvis like that of a bird
tatou;about three feet long exclusive of tail
loggerhead shrike;common shrike of southeastern united states having black eye-bands
german bee;dark-colored ill-tempered honeybee supposedly of german origin
bow wow;informal terms
hawk s beards;any of various plants of the genus crepis having loose heads of yellow flowers on top of a long branched leafy stem. northern hemisphere
carduelis cannabina;small old world finch whose male has a red breast and forehead
oriole;mostly tropical songbird. the male is usually bright orange and black
artemisia tridentata;aromatic shrub of arid regions of western north america having hoary leaves
calisaya;peruvian shrub or small tree having large glossy leaves and cymes of fragrant yellow to green or red flowers. cultivated for its medicinal bark
moray eel;family of brightly colored voracious eels of warm coastal waters. generally nonaggressive to humans but larger species are dangerous if provoked
pinus thunbergii;large japanese ornamental having long needles in bunches of 2. widely planted in united states because of its resistance to salt and smog
philadelphus coronarius;large hardy shrub with showy and strongly fragrant creamy-white flowers in short terminal racemes
black spruce;small spruce of boggy areas of northeastern north america having spreading branches with dense foliage. inferior wood
mother in law s tongue;stemless plant having narrow rigid leaves often cultivated as a houseplant
poacher;small slender fish (to 8 inches) with body covered by bony plates. chiefly of deeper north pacific waters
moss phlox;low tufted perennial phlox with needlelike evergreen leaves and pink or white flowers. native to united states and widely cultivated as a ground cover
decapterus macarellus;small silvery fish. nova scotia to brazil
silver vine;ornamental vine of eastern asia having yellow edible fruit and leaves with silver-white markings
yucca brevifolia;a large branched arborescent yucca of southwestern united states having short leaves and clustered greenish white flowers
sanwa millet;coarse annual grass cultivated in japan and southeastern asia for its edible seeds and for forage. important wildlife food in united states
water star grass;grassy-leaved north american aquatic plant with yellow star-shaped blossoms
panther cat;nocturnal wildcat of central and south america having a dark-spotted buff-brown coat
mahagua;shrubby tree widely distributed along tropical shores. yields a light tough wood used for canoe outriggers and a fiber used for cordage and caulk. often cultivated for ornament
water parsnip;stout white-flowered perennial found wild in shallow fresh water. northern united states and asia
olea europaea;evergreen tree cultivated in the mediterranean region since antiquity and now elsewhere. has edible shiny black fruits
aquatic mammal;whales and dolphins. manatees and dugongs. walruses. seals
percina tanasi;3-inch snail-eating perch of the tennessee river
western ribbon snake;yellow- or reddish-striped snake of temperate woodlands and grasslands to tropics
scallop;edible marine bivalve having a fluted fan-shaped shell that swim by expelling water from the shell in a series of snapping motions
bowfin;primitive long-bodies carnivorous freshwater fish with a very long dorsal fin. found in sluggish waters of north america
little skate;most plentiful skate in north american inshore waters in summer. to 2l inches
benny;east indian annual erect herb. source of sesame seed or benniseed and sesame oil
horned toad;insectivorous lizard with hornlike spines on the head and spiny scales on the body. of western north america
lactuca scariola;european annual wild lettuce having prickly stems. a troublesome weed in parts of united states
laptop computer;a computer small enough to use in your lap
eupatorium coelestinum;rhizomatous plant of central and southeastern united states and west indies having large showy heads of clear blue flowers. sometimes placed in genus eupatorium
electric catfish;freshwater catfish of the nile and tropical central africa having an electric organ
german tamarisk;eurasian shrub resembling the tamarisk
anthemis tinctoria;eurasian perennial herb with hairy divided leaves and yellow flowers. naturalized in north america
rhizopus;any of various rot-causing fungi of the genus rhizopus
pepper grass;annual herb used as salad green and garnish
iris germanica;a large iris with purple or white flowers, native to central and southern europe
snuffbox fern;fern of northeastern north america
rhinoceros unicornis;having one horn
wood lily;any liliaceous plant of the genus trillium having a whorl of three leaves at the top of the stem with a single three-petalled flower
homing pigeon;pigeon trained to return home
caprifig;wild variety of the common fig used to facilitate pollination of certain figs
sucking fish;marine fishes with a flattened elongated body and a sucking disk on the head for attaching to large fish or moving objects
imago;an adult insect produced after metamorphosis
xylopia aethiopica;tropical west african evergreen tree bearing pungent aromatic seeds used as a condiment and in folk medicine
pycnanthemum virginianum;perennial herb of the eastern united states having inconspicuous greenish flowers and narrow leaves that are very aromatic when bruised
dot matrix printer;a printer in which each character is represented by a pattern of dots
sistrurus miliaris;small pygmy rattlesnake
galium odoratum;old world fragrant stoloniferous perennial having small white flowers and narrow leaves used as flavoring and in sachets. widely cultivated as a ground cover. in some classifications placed in genus asperula
neolentinus ponderosus;a gilled polypore with a large cap (up to 15 inches in diameter) and a broad stalk. edible when young and tender
olive;evergreen tree cultivated in the mediterranean region since antiquity and now elsewhere. has edible shiny black fruits
reef squirrelfish;on reefs from bermuda and florida to northern south america
star grass;any plant of the genus hypoxis having long grasslike leaves and yellow star-shaped flowers: africa. australia. southern asia. north america
megabat;large old world bat of warm and tropical regions that feeds on fruit
silky wisteria;a wisteria of china having white flowers
plantigrade mammal;an animal that walks with the entire sole of the foot touching the ground as e.g. bears and human beings
china aster;valued for their beautiful flowers in a wide range of clear bright colors. grown primarily for cutting
habenaria bifolia;south european orchid having fragrant greenish-white flowers. sometimes placed in genus habenaria
dead men s fingers;the fruiting bodies of the fungi of the genus xylaria
wickup;tall north american perennial with creeping rootstocks and narrow leaves and spikes of pinkish-purple flowers occurring in great abundance in burned-over areas or recent clearings. an important honey plant
bouncing bet;plant of european origin having pink or white flowers and leaves yielding a detergent when bruised
indian potato;a north american vine with fragrant blossoms and edible tubers. important food crop of native americans
sweet pepper;plant bearing large mild thick-walled usually bell-shaped fruits. the principal salad peppers
quahaug;an edible american clam
burgrass;a grass of the genus cenchrus
echidna;burrowing spine-covered monotreme of australia having a long snout and claws for hunting ants and termites
cleome hassleriana;native to south america but naturalized in warm parts of united states. grown for its long-lasting spider-shaped white to pink-purple flowers
dungeness crab;small edible crab of pacific coast of north america
red skinned onion;onion with white to deep red tunic. california
reaction propulsion engine;a jet or rocket engine based on a form of aerodynamic propulsion in which the vehicle emits a high-speed stream
siskiyou lewisia;evergreen perennial having a dense basal rosette of long spatula-shaped leaves and panicles of pink or white-and-red-striped or pink-purple flowers. found on cliffs and in rock crevices in mountains of southwestern oregon and northern california
rocket salad;erect european annual often grown as a salad crop to be harvested when young and tender
oleander fern;tropical fern having leathery oleanderlike fronds. asia to polynesia
cardiospermum grandiflorum;herbaceous vine of tropical america and africa
golden warbler;yellow-throated american wood warbler
horsefish;any of several silvery marine fishes with very flat bodies
steeplechaser;a horse or athlete trained to run in steeplechases
page printer;a printer that prints one page at a time
perissodactyl mammal;placental mammals having hooves with an odd number of toes on each foot
osmerus eperlanus;the common smelt of europe
crab louse;infests the pubic region of the human body
black hickory;an american hickory tree having bitter nuts
nagami;shrub bearing oval-fruited kumquats
cerastes cornutus;highly venomous viper of north africa and southwest asia having a horny spine above each eye
hirudinean;carnivorous or bloodsucking aquatic or terrestrial worms typically having a sucker at each end
amaranthus spinosus;erect annual of tropical central asia and africa having a pair of divergent spines at most leaf nodes
herpes virus;any of the animal viruses that cause painful blisters on the skin
lady beetle;small round bright-colored and spotted beetle that usually feeds on aphids and other insect pests
cork tree;deciduous tree of china and manchuria having a turpentine aroma and handsome compound leaves turning yellow in autumn and deeply fissured corky bark
devil s milk;not unattractive european weed whose flowers turn toward the sun
burmese cat;a short-haired breed with body similar to the siamese cat but having a solid dark brown or gray coat
podocarpus elongatus;south african tree or shrub having a rounded crown
anas crecca;common teal of eurasia and north america
periplaneta americana;large reddish_brown free-flying cockroach originally from southern united states but now widely distributed
maximilian s sunflower;tall perennial of central united states to canada having golden-yellow flowers
gnaphalium sylvaticum;weedy perennial of north temperate regions having woolly foliage and dirty white flowers in a leafy spike
pteridophyte;plants having vascular tissue and reproducing by spores
pepper tree;small african deciduous tree with spreading crown having leaves clustered toward ends of branches and lilaclike clusters of creamy flowers
woolly bear;caterpillar of numerous moths characterized by a dense coat of woolly hairs. feed on plants and some are destructive pests
razorback;thin-bodied mongrel hog of southeastern united states that is a wild or semi-wild descendant of improved breeds
common basil;annual or perennial of tropical asia having spikes of small white flowers and aromatic leave. one of the most important culinary herbs. used in salads, casseroles, sauces and some liqueurs
french bracken;large deeply rooted fern of worldwide distribution with upright bipinnate compound tufted fronds
sorex araneus;common american shrew
bible leaf;tansy-scented eurasian perennial herb with buttonlike yellow flowers. used as potherb or salad green and sometimes for potpourri or tea or flavoring. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
china grass;tall perennial herb of tropical asia with dark green leaves. cultivated for flax-like fiber from its woody stems
yerba buena;trailing perennial evergreen herb of northwestern united states with small white flowers. used medicinally
corn lily;any of several south african plants of the genus ixia having grasslike leaves and clusters of showy variously colored lilylike flowers. widely cultivated
blackbuck;common indian antelope with a dark back and spiral horns
toxostoma rufums;common large songbird of eastern united states having reddish-brown plumage
giant water bug;large water bug with piercing and sucking mouthparts. feeds on young fishes
cantala;philippine plant yielding a hard fibre used in making coarse twine
little golden zinnia;subshrub having short leafy stems and numerous small flower heads with nearly round yellow-orange rays. arizona south to mexico and east to kansas
viverra zibetha;common civet of india and southeast asia
sheep botfly;larvae are parasitic on sheep
harnessed antelope;any of several antelopes of the genus tragelaphus having striped markings resembling a harness
melilotus officinalis;biennial yellow-flowered eurasian plant having aromatic leaves used as carminative or flavoring agent. widely cultivated especially as green manure or cover crop
moxie plum;slow-growing procumbent evergreen shrublet of northern north america and japan having white flowers and numerous white fleshy rough-hairy seeds
quince;small asian tree with pinkish flowers and pear-shaped fruit. widely cultivated
common pond skater;a variety of water strider
starch wheat;hard red wheat grown especially in russia and germany. in united states as stock feed
actinidia polygama;ornamental vine of eastern asia having yellow edible fruit and leaves with silver-white markings
neofiber alleni;of florida wetlands
calochortus luteus;mariposa having umbel-like clusters of a few large deep yellow bell-shaped flowers atop slender stems. california coastal ranges
hakea lissosperma;shrub with pungent rigid needle-shaped leaves and white flowers. eastern australia
feabane mullet;hairy perennial eurasian herb with yellow daisylike flowers reputed to destroy or drive away fleas
cottage tulip;any of several long-stemmed may-flowering tulips with egg-shaped variously colored flowers
carya laciniosa;hickory of the eastern united states resembling the shagbark but having a much larger nut
stinkbird;crested ill-smelling south american bird whose young have claws on the first and second digits of the wings
italian clover;southern european annual with spiky heads of crimson flower. extensively cultivated in united states for forage
poor man s orchid;any plant of the genus schizanthus having finely divided leaves and showy variegated flowers
manila bean;tuberous-rooted twining annual vine bearing clusters of purplish flowers and pods with four jagged wings. old world tropics
house snake;nonvenomous tan and brown king snake with an arrow-shaped occipital spot. southeastern ones have red stripes like coral snakes
our lady s mild thistle;tall old world biennial thistle with large clasping white-blotched leaves and purple flower heads. naturalized in california and south america
tennessee walker;a horse marked by stamina and trained to move at a fast running walk
american bog asphodel;of the eastern united states: new jersey to south carolina
leptarrhena pyrolifolia;plant with basal leathery elliptic leaves and erect leafless flower stalks each bearing a dense roundish cluster of tiny white flowers. moist places of northwestern north america to oregon and idaho
bog laurel;laurel of bogs of northwestern united states having small purple flowers and pale leaves that are glaucous beneath
spitting snake;highly venomous snake of southern africa able to spit venom up to seven feet
dandelion;any of several herbs of the genus taraxacum having long tap roots and deeply notched leaves and bright yellow flowers followed by fluffy seed balls
kelp greenling;common food and sport fish of western coast of north america
lesser butterfly orchid;south european orchid having fragrant greenish-white flowers. sometimes placed in genus habenaria
long head coneflower;plant similar to the mexican hat coneflower. from british columbia to new mexico
eriosoma lanigerum;primarily a bark feeder on aerial parts and roots of apple and other trees
agathis alba;native to the moluccas and philippines. a source of dammar resin
chalcidfly;any of various tiny insects whose larvae are parasites on eggs and larvae of other insects. many are beneficial in destroying injurious insects
tripleurospermum inodorum;ubiquitous european annual weed with white flowers and finely divided leaves naturalized and sometimes cultivated in eastern north america. sometimes included in genus matricaria
lycopersicon esculentum;native to south america. widely cultivated in many varieties
african clawed frog;native to africa. established in the united states as result of release of laboratory and aquarium animals
mignonette;mediterranean woody annual widely cultivated for its dense terminal spikelike clusters greenish or yellowish white flowers having an intense spicy fragrance
capeweed;european weed widely naturalized in north america having yellow flower heads and leaves resembling a cat's ears
liver fluke;flatworm parasitic in liver and bile ducts of domestic animals and humans
cranberry bush;deciduous north american shrub or small tree having three-lobed leaves and red berries
wall fern;mat-forming lithophytic or terrestrial fern with creeping rootstocks and large pinnatifid fronds found throughout north america and europe and africa and east asia
cortinarius subfoetidus;a fungus with a sticky lavender cap and stalk that whitish above and covered with a silky lavender sheath
alder buckthorn;small tree common in europe
lemon geranium;a common garden geranium with lemon-scented foliage
afropavo congensis;both sexes are brightly colored
mediterranean cypress;tall eurasian cypress with thin gray bark and ascending branches
culex quinquefasciatus;widespread tropical mosquito that transmits filarial worms
stud mare;a female horse used for breeding
trematode;parasitic flatworms having external suckers for attaching to a host
flying fox;large bat with a head that resembles the head of a fox
trefoil;a plant of the genus trifolium
spelt;hardy wheat grown mostly in europe for livestock feed
stone fly;primitive winged insect with a flattened body. used as bait by fishermen. aquatic gilled larvae are carnivorous and live beneath stones
amphiprion percula;an anemone fish of the genus amphiprion
alaska crab;large edible crab of north pacific waters esp. along the coasts of alaska and japan
loosestrife;any of numerous herbs and subshrubs of the genus lythrum
peanut worm;small unsegmented marine worm that when disturbed retracts its anterior portion into the body giving the appearance of a peanut
zigadenus venenosus gramineus;plant of western north america to mexico. poisonous especially to grazing animals
liposcelis divinatorius;minute wingless psocopterous insects injurious to books and papers
white trumpet lily;tall lily have large white trumpet-shaped flowers that bloom in the spring
primula veris;early spring flower common in british isles having fragrant yellow or sometimes purple flowers
melanogrammus aeglefinus;important food fish on both sides of the atlantic. related to cod but usually smaller
canker brake;north american evergreen fern having pinnate leaves and dense clusters of lance-shaped fronds
bumelia lycioides;shrubby thorny deciduous tree of southeastern united states with white flowers and small black drupaceous fruit
asarum shuttleworthii;wild ginger having persistent heart-shaped pungent leaves. west virginia to alabama
nierembergia;any of various plants of the genus nierembergia having upturned bell-like flowers
elephant tree;small spicy-odored tree or shrub of southwestern united states having odd-pinnate leaves and small clusters of white flowers
volvaria bombycina;a parasite on various trees
gray willow;eurasian shrubby willow with whitish tomentose twigs
cassia occidentalis;very leafy malodorous tropical weedy shrub whose seeds have been used as an adulterant for coffee. sometimes classified in genus cassia
castor oil plant;large shrub of tropical africa and asia having large palmate leaves and spiny capsules containing seeds that are the source of castor oil and ricin. widely naturalized throughout the tropics
ornithogalum umbellatum;common old world herb having grasslike leaves and clusters of star-shaped white flowers with green stripes. naturalized in the eastern united states
lechwe;tawny-colored african antelope inhabiting wet grassy plains. a threatened species
gulo luscus;stocky shaggy-coated north american carnivorous mammal
wiggler;larva of a mosquito
helix pomatia;one of the chief edible snails
chough;a european corvine bird of small or medium size with red legs and glossy black plumage
cotton gin;a machine that separates the seeds from raw cotton fibers
hot pepper;plant bearing very hot medium-sized oblong red peppers. grown principally in the gulf coast states for production of hot sauce
lambkill;north american dwarf shrub resembling mountain laurel but having narrower leaves and small red flowers. poisonous to young stock
psidium littorale;small tropical shrubby tree bearing small yellowish fruit
hamelia;any of several free-flowering tropical or subtropical shrubs of the genus hamelia
silene caroliniana;perennial of eastern and central north america having short-stalked pink or white flowers in hairy clusters
malemute;breed of sled dog developed in alaska
tresses;similar to spiranthes romanzoffiana.states
golden trumpet;vigorous evergreen climbing plant of south america having glossy leathery foliage and golden yellow flowers
wig tree;old world shrub having large plumes of yellowish feathery flowers resembling puffs of smoke
didelphis marsupialis;omnivorous opossum of the eastern united states. noted for feigning death when in danger. esteemed as food in some areas. considered same species as the crab-eating opossum of south america
beggar s ticks;any of several plants of the genus bidens having yellow flowers and prickly fruits that cling to fur and clothing
elanoides forficatus;graceful north american black-and-white kite
fritillaria biflora;herb of southwestern united states having dark purple bell-shaped flowers mottled with green
spotted eagle ray;ray with back covered with white or yellow spots. widely distributed in warm seas
bastard ridley;gray sea turtle of the atlantic and gulf coasts of north america
copper;any of various small butterflies of the family lycaenidae having copper colored wings
blue walleye;variety inhabiting the great lakes
iris tingitana;bulbous spanish iris having blue flowers
dancing lady orchid;any orchid of the genus oncidium: characterized by slender branching sprays of small yellow and brown flowers. often grown as houseplants
citron;thorny evergreen small tree or shrub of india widely cultivated for its large lemonlike fruits that have thick warty rind
ground almond;european sedge having small edible nutlike tubers
flowering cherry;any of several shrubs or trees of the genus prunus cultivated for their showy white or pink single or double blossoms
joewood;west indian shrub or small tree having leathery saponaceous leaves and extremely hard wood
potter wasp;any of various solitary wasps that construct vase-shaped cells of mud for their eggs
dairy cattle;cattle that are reared for their milk
nudibranch;any of various marine gastropods of the suborder nudibranchia having a shell-less and often beautifully colored body
strawflower;plant of southern and southeastern united states grown for its yellow flowers that can be dried
groundhog;reddish_brown north american marmot
sand reed;european maritime sedge naturalized along atlantic coast of united states. rootstock has properties of sarsaparilla
tanacetum coccineum;spring-flowering garden perennial of asiatic origin having finely divided aromatic leaves and white to pink-purple flowers. source of an insecticide. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
winter savory;erect perennial subshrub having pink or white flowers and leathery leaves with a flavor of thyme. southern europe
dryopteris noveboracensis;slender shield fern of moist woods of eastern north america. sometimes placed in genus dryopteris
chacma;grayish baboon of southern and eastern africa
giant salamander;large (to 3+ feet) edible salamander of asia
western red backed salamander;salamander of the pacific coast of north america
adjutant;large indian stork with a military gait
milk snake;nonvenomous tan and brown king snake with an arrow-shaped occipital spot. southeastern ones have red stripes like coral snakes
carissa grandiflora;very large closely branched south african shrub having forked bright green spines and shiny leaves
dominique;american breed of chicken having barred gray plumage raised for meat and brown eggs
lady s slipper;any of several chiefly american wildflowers having an inflated pouchlike lip. difficult or impossible to cultivate in the garden
lobipes lobatus;breeds in arctic regions of old and new worlds. large flocks often seen far out at sea
trachodont;large duck-billed dinosaur of the upper cretaceous
eichhornia crassipes;a tropical floating aquatic plant having spikes of large blue flowers. troublesome in clogging waterways especially in southern united states
blue poppy;chinese perennial having mauve-pink to bright sky blue flowers in drooping cymes
amaranth;any of various plants of the genus amaranthus having dense plumes of green or red flowers. often cultivated for food
greek partridge;of mountainous areas of southern europe
squareflipper square flipper;medium-sized grayish to yellow seal with bristles each side of muzzle. of arctic ocean
filefish;narrow flattened warm-water fishes with leathery skin and a long file-like dorsal spine
coco plum tree;small tropical american tree bearing edible plumlike fruit
nostoc;found in moist places as rounded jellylike colonies
pussytoes;low-growing perennial herb having leaves with whitish down and clusters of small white flowers
yellow avens;erect subshrub with deep yellow flowers. europe and asia and north america
new caledonian pine;very tall evergreen of new caledonia and the new hebrides similar to norfolk island pine
apple of peru;intensely poisonous tall coarse annual tropical weed having rank-smelling foliage, large white or violet trumpet-shaped flowers and prickly fruits
black pine;large japanese ornamental having long needles in bunches of 2. widely planted in united states because of its resistance to salt and smog
being;"any living entity"
equus grevyi;zebra with less continuous stripes
alpine azalea;creeping mat-forming evergreen shrub of high mountain regions of northern hemisphere grown for its rose-pink flowers
hieracium pilocella;european hawkweed having soft hairy leaves. sometimes placed in genus hieracium
automated teller;a machine (outside some banks) that dispenses cash when a personal coded card is used
wren warbler;small asiatic and african bird. constructs nests like those of tailorbirds
horsehair lichen;any of several lichens of the genus alectoria having a thallus consisting of filaments resembling hair
protozoan;any of diverse minute acellular or unicellular organisms usually nonphotosynthetic
little black ant;tiny glossy black ant. nests outdoors but invades houses for food
flamefish;found in tropical atlantic coastal waters
quercus cerris;large deciduous tree of central and southern europe and asia minor having oblong-lanceolate leaves with spiked lobes
yellow cattley guava;small tropical shrubby tree bearing small yellowish fruit
pin cherry;small shrubby north american wild cherry with small bright red acid fruit
teleost;a bony fish of the subclass teleostei
pinus flexilis;western north american pine with long needles and very flexible limbs and dark-gray furrowed bark
amelanchier bartramiana;open-growing shrub of eastern north america having pure white flowers and small waxy almost black fruits
speckled rattlesnake;markings vary but usually harmonize with background. of sw arizona and baja california
foram;marine microorganism having a calcareous shell with openings where pseudopods protrude
bunchgrass;any of various grasses of many genera that grow in tufts or clumps rather than forming a sod or mat. chiefly of western united states
spatterdock;common water lily of eastern and central north america, having broad leaves and globe-shaped yellow flowers. in sluggish fresh or slightly brackish water
actinian;any sea anemone or related animal
common camas;plant having a large edible bulb and linear basal leaves and racemes of light to deep violet-blue star-shaped flowers on tall green scapes. western north america
german police dog;breed of large shepherd dogs used in police work and as a guide for the blind
barred pickerel;small but gamy pickerel of atlantic coastal states
bitter orange;any of various common orange trees yielding sour or bitter fruit. used as grafting stock
cherry apple;asian wild crab apple cultivated in many varieties for it small acid usually red fruit used for preserving
anthemis cotula;widespread rank-smelling weed having white-rayed flower heads with yellow discs
kingwood;brazilian tree yielding a handsome cabinet wood
meleagris gallopavo;large gallinaceous bird with fan-shaped tail. widely domesticated for food
napier s rods;a set of graduated rods formerly used to do multiplication and division by a method invented by john napier
crotalus mitchellii;markings vary but usually harmonize with background. of sw arizona and baja california
toothed whale;any of several whales having simple conical teeth and feeding on fish etc.
flamingo;large pink to scarlet web-footed wading bird with down-bent bill. inhabits brackish lakes
chaparral cock;speedy largely terrestrial bird found from california and mexico to texas
mahonia nervosa;small shrub with gray-green leaves and yellow flowers followed by glaucous blue berries
ficus bengalensis;east indian tree that puts out aerial shoots that grow down into the soil forming additional trunks
inga;any tree or shrub of the genus inga having pinnate leaves and showy usually white flowers. cultivated as ornamentals
flying drainpipe;a simple type of jet engine. must be launched at high speed
hand calculator;a calculator small enough to hold in the hand or carry in a pocket
wild madder;eurasian herb with ample panicles of small white flowers. naturalized in north america
acrocomia aculeata;tropical american feather palm having a swollen spiny trunk and edible nuts
dame s violet;long-cultivated herb having flowers whose scent is more pronounced in the evening. naturalized throughout europe to siberia and into north america
dandie dinmont;a breed of small terrier with long wiry coat and drooping ears
american flagfish;flagfish with a dark-blue back and whitish sides with red stripes. found in swamps and streams of florida
paspalum notatum;perennial tropical american grass used as pasture grass in arid areas of gulf states
macaca radiata;indian macaque with a bonnet-like tuft of hair
trifolium stoloniferum;clover of western united states
runner bean;tropical american high-climbing bean with red flowers and mottled black beans similar to phaseolus_vulgaris but perennial. a preferred food bean in g britain
alliaria officinalis;european herb that smells like garlic
hunting spider;ground spider that hunts its prey instead of using a web
eubacteria;a large group of bacteria having rigid cell walls. motile types have flagella
lowan;australian moundbird. incubates eggs naturally in sandy mounds
insectivore;any organism that feeds mainly on insects
batfish;bottom-dweller of warm western atlantic coastal waters having a flattened scaleless body that crawls about on fleshy pectoral and pelvic fins
common dandelion;eurasian plant widely naturalized as a weed in north america. used as salad greens and to make wine
blackfoot daisy;bushy subshrub having flower heads that resemble asters with broad white rays. found in desert areas of arizona east to kansas and south to mexico
wood spurge;european perennial herb with greenish yellow terminal flower clusters
titlark;small songbirds resembling larks
amniota;higher vertebrates (reptiles. birds. mammals) possessing an amnion during development
zea mays indurata;corn having kernels with a hard outer layer enclosing the soft endosperm
garden pea;plant producing peas usually eaten fresh rather than dried
german cockroach;small light-brown cockroach brought to united states from europe. a common household pest
nasturtium amphibium;perennial herb found on streams and riversides throughout europe except extreme north and mediterranean. sometimes placed in genus nasturtium
nakedwood;any of several small to medium-sized trees of florida and west indies with thin scaly bark and heavy dark heartwood
malope;western mediterranean annual having deep purple-red flowers subtended by 3 large cordate bracts
russian dandelion;perennial dandelion native to kazakh republic of russia cultivated for its fleshy roots which have high rubber content
prince s plume;annual with broadly ovate leaves and slender drooping spikes of crimson flowers. southeastern asia and australia. naturalized in north america
heat engine;any device that makes use of heat to do work
caladenia;any of various orchids of the genus caladenia
dagame;source of a tough elastic wood
oenanthe crocata;european poisonous herb having tuberous roots, yellow juice that stains the skin, yellow flowers and foliage resembling celery. all parts extremely poisonous
california coffee;evergreen shrub of western united states bearing small red or black fruits
geranium richardsonii;geranium of western north america having branched clusters of white or pale pink flowers
new world mouse;a variety of rodent
conic waxycap;a fungus having an acutely conic cap and dry stalks
leatherjacket;any of several new world tropical fishes having tiny embedded scales
marlin;large long-jawed oceanic sport fishes. related to sailfishes and spearfishes. not completely cold-blooded i.e. able to warm their brains and eyes
plover;any of numerous chiefly shorebirds of relatively compact build having straight bills and large pointed wings. closely related to the sandpipers
florida yew;small bushy yew of northern florida having spreading branches and very narrow leaves
round kumquat;shrub bearing round-fruited kumquats
illicium floridanum;small shrubby tree with purple flowers. found in wet soils of southeastern united states
gorilla gorilla;largest anthropoid ape. terrestrial and vegetarian. of forests of central west africa
araucaria excelsa;evergreen of australia and norfolk island in the south pacific
brachychiton acerifolius;south australian tree having panicles of brilliant scarlet flowers
springbok;south african gazelle noted for springing lightly into the air
francoa ramosa;chilean evergreen shrub having delicate spikes of small white flowers
collinsonia canadensis;erect perennial strong-scented with serrate pointed leaves and a loose panicle of yellowish flowers. the eastern united states
chervil;aromatic annual old world herb cultivated for its finely divided and often curly leaves for use especially in soups and salads
laburnum anagyroides;an ornamental shrub or tree of the genus laburnum. often cultivated for easter decorations
nine banded armadillo;having nine hinged bands of bony plates. ranges from texas to paraguay
burbot;elongate freshwater cod of northern europe and asia and north america having barbels around its mouth
sea gooseberry;ctenophore having a rounded body with longitudinal rows of cilia
hybrid;an offspring of genetically dissimilar parents or stock. especially offspring produced by breeding plants or animals of different varieties or breeds or species
sugar bush;evergreen shrub of southeastern united states with spikes of reddish-yellow flowers and glandular hairy fruits
cordia gerascanthus;tropical american timber tree
brassica rapa perviridis;asiatic plant cultivated for its swollen root crown and edible foliage
flame bush;australian shrub having simple obovate leaves and brilliant scarlet flowers
wood drake;male wood_duck
pelagic bird;bird of the open seas
black medick;prostrate european herb with small yellow flowers and curved black pods. naturalized in north america
nothofagus solanderi;new zealand forest tree
chrysaora quinquecirrha;a type of jellyfish
genus javanthropus;former genus of primitive man. now homo soloensis: comprises solo man
angwantibo;a kind of lemur
hottentot s bread vine;south african vine having a massive rootstock covered with deeply fissured bark
toona calantas;philippine timber tree having hard red fragrant wood
madonna lily;lily of eastern mediterranean and the balkans with broad funnel-shaped white flowers
styracosaur;an unusual ceratopsian dinosaur having many large spikes around the edge of its bony frill and a long nose horn. late cretaceous
corn;annual or biennial grass having erect flower spikes and light brown grains
banana tree;any of several tropical and subtropical treelike herbs of the genus musa having a terminal crown of large entire leaves and usually bearing hanging clusters of elongated fruits
prairie sagewort;silky-leaved aromatic perennial of dry northern parts of the northern hemisphere. has tawny florets
turmeric root;perennial herb of northeastern united states having a thick knotted yellow rootstock and large rounded leaves
hoofed mammal;any of a number of hoofed mammals superficially similar but not necessarily closely related taxonomically
syringa josikea;central european upright shrub having elliptic leaves and upright clusters of lilac or deep violet flowers
boletus pulverulentus;an edible fungus with a broadly convex blackish brown cap and a pore surface that is yellow when young and darkens with age. stalk is thick and enlarges toward the base
tallgrass;any of various grasses that are tall and that flourish with abundant moisture
bottom fish;fish that live on the sea bottom especially commercially important gadoid fishes like cod and haddock or flatfish like flounder
old world jay;a european jay
saddle oyster;thin-shelled bivalve having the right valve deeply notched
spotted hyena;african hyena noted for its distinctive howl
narrow goldenrod;western american goldenrod with long narrow clusters of small yellow flowers
primrose jasmine;evergreen rambling yellow-flowered shrub of western china
green dragon;early spring-flowering plant of eastern north america resembling the related jack-in-the-pulpit but having digitate leaves, slender greenish yellow spathe and elongated spadix
shingle tree;east indian timber tree with hard durable wood used especially for tea boxes
monarda clinopodia;perennial herb of north america (new york to illinois and mountains of alaska) having aromatic leaves and clusters of yellowish-pink flower-like balls
arctic mouse ear;widespread in arctic and on mountains in europe
beef;cattle that are reared for their meat
canebrake rattler;southern variety
sloth bear;common coarse-haired long-snouted bear of south-central asia
coregonus clupeaformis;found in great lakes and north to alaska
goldenseal;perennial herb of northeastern united states having a thick knotted yellow rootstock and large rounded leaves
blanket flower;annual of central united states having showy long-stalked yellow flower heads marked with scarlet or purple in the center
mycoplasma;the smallest self-reproducing prokaryote. lacks a cell wall and can survive without oxygen. can cause pneumonia and urinary tract infection
salmonella typhimurium;a form of salmonella that causes food poisoning in humans
viccinium membranaceum;erect blueberry of western united states having solitary flowers and somewhat sour berries
cultivated strawberry;widely cultivated
origanum vulgare;aromatic eurasian perennial
amboyna pine;native to the moluccas and philippines. a source of dammar resin
bottle nosed dolphin;any of several dolphins with rounded forehead and well-developed beak. chiefly of north atlantic and mediterranean
papovavirus;any of a group of animal viruses associated with or causing papillomas or polyomas
kangaroo rat;any of several rabbit-sized rat-like australian kangaroos
meadow salsify;weedy european annual with yellow flowers. naturalized in united states
wild raspberry;the common european raspberry. fruit red or orange
cajanus cajan;tropical woody herb with showy yellow flowers and flat pods. much cultivated in the tropics
pride of barbados;tropical shrub or small tree having showy yellow to orange-red flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
clematis texensis;woody vine of texas having showy solitary nodding scarlet flowers
ribbon tree;deciduous new zealand tree whose inner bark yields a strong flax-like fiber called new zealand cotton
saguaro;extremely large treelike cactus of desert regions of southwestern united states having a thick columnar sparsely branched trunk bearing white flowers and edible red pulpy fruit
lavandula angustifolia;aromatic mediterranean shrub widely cultivated for its lilac flowers which are dried and used in sachets
red shrubby penstemon;low branching dark green shrub with bunches of brick-red flowers at ends of branches. coastal ranges and foothills of northern california
asphodeline lutea;asphodel with leafy stem and fragrant yellow flowers
great dane;very large powerful smooth-coated breed of dog
mentha pulegium;eurasian perennial mint have small lilac-blue flowers and ovate leaves. yields an aromatic oil
eggplant bush;hairy upright herb native to southeastern asia but widely cultivated for its large glossy edible fruit commonly used as a vegetable
whalesucker;large blue pacific remora that attaches to whales and dolphins
hyalophora cecropia;north american silkworm moth. larvae feed on the leaves of forest trees
actinopod;protozoa having stiff rodlike radiating pseudopods
snapper;large-headed turtle with powerful hooked jaws found in or near water. prone to bite
stone root;erect perennial strong-scented with serrate pointed leaves and a loose panicle of yellowish flowers. the eastern united states
flour beetle;infests flour and stored grains
musk duck;large crested wild duck of central and south america. widely domesticated
cypress;any of numerous evergreen conifers of the genus cupressus of north temperate regions having dark scalelike leaves and rounded cones
prunus nigra;small tree native to northeastern north america having oblong orange-red fruit
hamadryad;large cobra of southeastern asia and the east indies. the largest venomous snake. sometimes placed in genus naja
placental mammal;mammals having a placenta. all mammals except monotremes and marsupials
oecanthus fultoni;pale yellowish tree cricket widely distributed in north america
tunicate;primitive marine animal having a saclike unsegmented body and a urochord (a notochord) conspicuous in the larva
flammulina velutipes;an edible agaric that is available in early spring or late fall when few other mushrooms are. has a viscid smooth orange to brown cap and a velvety stalk that turns black in maturity and pallid gills. often occur in clusters
agonus cataphractus;north atlantic sea poacher
gaultheria hispidula;slow-growing procumbent evergreen shrublet of northern north america and japan having white flowers and numerous white fleshy rough-hairy seeds
panama tree;large deciduous tree native to panama and from which the country takes its name having densely leafy umbrellalike crown and naked trunk
old world chat;songbirds having a chattering call
torreya taxifolia;rare small evergreen of northern florida. its glossy green leaves have an unpleasant fetid smell when crushed
yellow spot fungus;fungus causing yellow spot (a sugarcane disease in australia)
camachile;common thorny tropical american tree having terminal racemes of yellow flowers followed by sickle-shaped or circinate edible pods and yielding good timber and a yellow dye and mucilaginous gum
buckler fern;any of various ferns of the genera dryopteris or polystichum or lastreopsis having somewhat shield-shaped coverings on the sori
briard;old french breed of large strong usually black dogs having a long tail and long wavy and slightly stiff coat
mountain ebony;small east indian tree having orchidlike flowers and hard dark wood
strelitzia reginae;ornamental plant of tropical south africa and south america having stalks of orange and purplish-blue flowers resembling a bird
prunus armeniaca;temperate zone tree bearing downy yellow to rosy fruits
night lizard;small secretive nocturnal lizard of southwestern north america and cuba. bear live young
orchard oriole;the male is chestnut-and-black
oleaster;any of several shrubs of the genus elaeagnus having silver-white twigs and yellow flowers followed by olivelike fruits
malopterurus electricus;freshwater catfish of the nile and tropical central africa having an electric organ
dogfish;primitive long-bodies carnivorous freshwater fish with a very long dorsal fin. found in sluggish waters of north america
oriental scops owl;asian scops owl
skate;large edible rays having a long snout and thick tail with pectoral fins continuous with the head. swim by undulating the edges of the pectoral fins
white sanicle;american herb having flat-topped clusters of small white flower heads. reputedly a cause of trembles and milksickness. sometimes placed in genus eupatorium
slender wild oat;oat of southern europe and southwestern asia
dove;any of numerous small pigeons
spanish psyllium;plantain of mediterranean regions whose seeds swell and become gelatinous when moist and are used as a mild laxative
european swift;common european bird with a shrieking call that nests chiefly about eaves of buildings or on cliffs
artocarpus odoratissima;philippine tree similar to the breadfruit tree bearing edible fruit
pinus muricata;2- or 3-needled pinon mostly of northwestern california coast
elaeis oleifera;palm of central and south america
army cutworm;noctuid moth larvae that travel in large groups and destroy grains and alfalfa in the plains states
guava;small tropical american shrubby tree. widely cultivated in warm regions for its sweet globular yellow fruit
primate;any placental mammal of the order primates. has good eyesight and flexible hands and feet
french lavender;shrubby grayish lavender of southwestern europe having usually reddish-purple flowers
queen anne s lace;a widely naturalized eurasian herb with finely cut foliage and white compound umbels of small white or yellowish flowers and thin yellowish roots
pinus mugo;low shrubby pine of central europe with short bright green needles in bunches of two
equus caballus przewalskii;wild horse of central asia that resembles an ass. now endangered
bezoar goat;wild goat of iran and adjacent regions
plectrophenax nivalis;white arctic bunting
flycatching warbler;any of numerous american wood warblers that feed on insects caught on the wing
rubus caesius;creeping european bramble bearing dewberries
egyptian bean;perennial twining vine of old world tropics having trifoliate leaves and racemes of fragrant purple pealike flowers followed by maroon pods of edible seeds. grown as an ornamental and as a vegetable on the indian subcontinent. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
mergus albellus;smallest merganser and most expert diver. found in northern eurasia
elliott s goldenrod;a variety of goldenrod
pug dog;small compact smooth-coated breed of asiatic origin having a tightly curled tail and broad flat wrinkled muzzle
common european jay;fawn-colored jay with black-and-white crest and blue-and-black wings
true warbler;small active brownish or grayish old world birds
polybotrya cervina;tropical american terrestrial fern with leathery lanceolate fronds. sometimes placed in genus polybotrya
blacktail;mule deer of western rocky mountains
marsh mallow;european perennial plant naturalized in united states having triangular ovate leaves and lilac-pink flowers
dasyatis centroura;one of the largest stingrays. found from cape cod to cape hatteras
rhus glabra;common nonpoisonous shrub of eastern north america with waxy compound leaves and green paniculate flowers followed by red berries
artemisia dracunculus;aromatic perennial of southeastern russia
nicotiana alata;south american ornamental perennial having nocturnally fragrant greenish-white flowers
three spined stickleback;of rivers and coastal regions
nitrobacteria;soil bacteria that convert nitrites to nitrates
monkey bread tree;african tree having an exceedingly thick trunk and gourd-like fruit with edible pulp called monkey bread
water plantain;marsh plant having clusters of small white or pinkish flowers and broad pointed or rounded leaves
viverrine;small catlike predatory mammals of warmer parts of the old world
leatherjacket;any of several brightly colored tropical filefishes
beard lichen;greenish gray pendulous lichen growing on trees
mealberry;evergreen mat-forming shrub of north america and northern eurasia having small white flowers and red berries. leaves turn red in autumn
abronia villosa;soft-haired sticky plant with heads of bright pink trumpet-shaped flowers. found in sandy desert soil. after ample rains may carpet miles of desert with pink from the southwestern united states to northern mexico
surinam cherry;brazilian tree with spicy red fruit. often cultivated in california and florida
hyacinth bean;perennial twining vine of old world tropics having trifoliate leaves and racemes of fragrant purple pealike flowers followed by maroon pods of edible seeds. grown as an ornamental and as a vegetable on the indian subcontinent. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
orbignya martiana;tall feather palm of northern brazil with hard-shelled nuts yielding valuable oil and a kind of vegetable ivory
myrrhis odorata;european herb with soft ferny leaves and white flowers
bristly sarsaparilla;bristly herb of eastern and central north america having black fruit and medicinal bark
sitophylus oryzae;brown weevil that infests stored grain esp. rice
prosopium williamsonii;whitefish of the western united states and canada
ground pink;low wiry-stemmed branching herb or southern california having fringed pink flowers
texas storksbill;of prairies and desert areas of southwestern united states and mexico
cockleburr;any coarse weed of the genus xanthium having spiny burrs
ipomoea quamoclit;tropical american annual climber having red (sometimes white) flowers and finely dissected leaves. naturalized in united states and elsewhere
royal;stag with antlers of 12 or more branches
acanthocephalan;any of various worms living parasitically in intestines of vertebrates having a retractile proboscis covered with many hooked spines
red wolf;reddish-gray wolf of southwestern north america
opsanus tau;bottom-dwelling fish having scaleless slimy skin and a broad thick head with a wide mouth
flowering raspberry;shrubby raspberry of eastern north america having showy rose to purplish flowers and red or orange thimble-shaped fruit
cedar apple rust;rust fungus causing rust spots on apples and pears etc
flea beetle;any small leaf beetle having enlarged hind legs and capable of jumping
horse radish;coarse eurasian plant cultivated for its thick white pungent root
sponge gourd;any of several tropical annual climbers having large yellow flowers and edible young fruits. grown commercially for the mature fruit's dried fibrous interior that is used as a sponge
glaucomys sabrinus;large flying squirrel. chiefly of canada
dwarf blueberry;low-growing tufted deciduous shrub of northern and alpine north america having pink to coral-red flowers followed by sweet blue berries
pennisetum americanum;tall grass having cattail like spikes. grown in africa and asia for its grain and in the united states chiefly for forage. sometimes used in making beer
turdus grayi;robin of mexico and central america
aberdeen angus;black hornless breed from scotland
makaira mitsukurii;pacific food and game fish marked with dark blue vertical stripes
tabernaemontana divaricate;tropical shrub having glossy foliage and fragrant nocturnal flowers with crimped or wavy corollas. northern india to thailand
whisker jack;gray jay of northern north america with black-capped head and no crest. noted for boldness in thievery
poison mercury;climbing plant common in eastern and central united states with ternate leaves and greenish flowers followed by white berries. yields an irritating oil that causes a rash on contact
helvella;any fungus of the genus helvella having the ascocarps stalked or pleated or often in folds
water trumpet;any plant of the genus cryptocoryne. evergreen perennials growing in fresh or brackish water. tropical asia
nyctereutes procyonides;small wild dog of eastern asia having facial markings like those of a raccoon
ruvettus pretiosus;very large deep-water snake mackerel
summer tanager;of middle and southern united states. male is deep rose-red the female mostly yellow
caiman lizard;crocodile-like lizard of south america having powerful jaws for crushing snails and mussels
coccidium;parasitic on the digestive epithelium of vertebrates and higher invertebrates
pin oak;fast-growing medium to large pyramidal deciduous tree of northeastern united states and southeastern canada having deeply pinnatifid leaves that turn bright red in autumn. thrives in damp soil
cineraria maritima;stiff much-branched perennial of the mediterranean region having very white woolly stems and leaves. sometimes placed in genus cineraria
pylodictus olivaris;large catfish of central united states having a flattened head and projecting jaw
bocconia;herb of china and japan widely cultivated for its plumelike panicles of creamy white flowers
galax urceolata;tufted evergreen perennial herb having spikes of tiny white flowers and glossy green round to heart-shaped leaves that become coppery to maroon or purplish in fall
corn borer;larva of the european corn borer moth. a serious pest of maize
capsicum annuum grossum;plant bearing large mild thick-walled usually bell-shaped fruits. the principal salad peppers
overcup oak;medium-large deciduous timber tree of central and southern united states. acorns deeply immersed in the cup and mature in first year
tamarind tree;long-lived tropical evergreen tree with a spreading crown and feathery evergreen foliage and fragrant flowers yielding hard yellowish wood and long pods with edible chocolate-colored acidic pulp
breakax;west indian timber tree having very hard wood
ortolan bunting;brownish old world bunting often eaten as a delicacy
salvelinus namaycush;large fork-tailed trout of lakes of canada and the northern united states
imperishability;the property of being resistant to decay. 'he advertised the imperishability of the product'
uintathere;a variety of dinocerate
spanish lime tree;tropical american tree bearing a small edible fruit with green leathery skin and sweet juicy translucent pulp
snakeblenny;found in arctic and north atlantic
sea kale;perennial of coastal sands and shingles of northern europe and baltic and black seas having racemes of small white flowers and large fleshy blue-green leaves often used as potherbs
dinoceras;a variety of dinocerate
indian crocus;any of several dwarf orchids of the genus pleione bearing 1 or 2 solitary slender-stalked white or pink to magenta or occasionally yellow flowers
mistletoe rubber plant;shrub or small tree often grown as a houseplant having mistletoelike foliage
campanula;any of various plants of the genus campanula having blue or white bell-shaped flowers
abele;a poplar that is widely cultivated in the united states. has white bark and leaves with whitish undersurfaces
rhinoceros antiquitatis;extinct thick-haired species of arctic regions
racer;a person or other animal that races
ugli fruit;hybrid between grapefruit and mandarin orange. cultivated especially in florida
corn borer;native to europe. in america the larvae bore into the stem and crown of corn and other plants
dovekie;small short-billed auk abundant in arctic regions
european ladies;european orchid having shorter racemes of strongly spiraling snow-white flowers
slippery elm;north american elm having rough leaves that are red when opening. yields a hard wood
idesia polycarpa;deciduous round-headed asiatic tree widely grown in mild climates as an ornamental for its heart-shaped leaves and fragrant yellow-green flowers followed by hanging clusters of fleshy orange-red berries
thuja occidentalis;small evergreen of eastern north america having tiny scalelike leaves on flattened branchlets
gentiana thermalis;small blue-flowered fringed gentian of western united states (rocky mountains) especially around hot springs in yellowstone national park
lotus;native to eastern asia. widely cultivated for its large pink or white flowers
bog rhubarb;small eurasian herb having broad leaves and lilac-pink rayless flowers. found in moist areas
wagtail;old world bird having a very long tail that jerks up and down as it walks
chrysanthemum coronarium;shrubby annual of the mediterranean region with yellowish-white flowers
miniature fan palm;small graceful palm with reedlike stems and leaf bases clothed with loose coarse fibers
soft shell crab;edible crab that has recently molted and not yet formed its new shell
turpentine weed;low-growing sticky subshrub of southwestern united states having narrow linear leaves on many slender branches and hundreds of tiny yellow flower heads
kino;east indian tree yielding a resin or extract often used medicinally and in e.g. tanning
panfish;any of numerous small food fishes taken with hook and line
runner;fish of western atlantic: cape cod to brazil
holibut;marine food fish of north atlantic or north pacific. the largest flatfish and one of the largest teleost fishes
archidiskidon imperator;largest known mammoth. of america
papaw;small tree native to the eastern united states having oblong leaves and fleshy fruit
psittacula krameri;african parakeet
dam;female parent of an animal especially domestic livestock
malacosoma disstria;larvae of a gregarious north american moth that spins a carpet rather than a tent. serious defoliator of deciduous trees
french bulldog;small stocky version of the bulldog having a sleek coat and square head
branta leucopsis;european goose smaller than the brant. breeds in the far north
eagle ray;powerful free-swimming tropical ray noted for 'soaring' by flapping winglike fins. usually harmless but has venomous tissue near base of the tail as in stingrays
licorice fern;fern having rootstock of a sweetish flavor
epidendron;any of various orchids of the genus epidendrum
dactylis glomerata;widely grown stout old world hay and pasture grass
adelie;medium-sized penguins occurring in large colonies on the adelie coast of antarctica
trigonella ornithopodioides;old world herb related to fenugreek
celosia argentea cristata;garden annual with featherlike spikes of red or yellow flowers
japanese angelica tree;deciduous clump-forming asian shrub or small tree. adventive in the eastern united states
therapsid;probably warm-blooded. considered direct ancestor of mammals
lesser kudu;a smaller variety of kudu
chaparral mallow;shrub of coastal ranges of california and baja california having hairy branches and spikes of numerous mauve flowers. sometimes placed in genus_sphaeralcea
lepisma saccharina;silver-gray wingless insect found in houses feeding on book bindings and starched clothing
rock plant;plant that grows on or among rocks or is suitable for a rock garden
torrey tree;rare small evergreen of northern florida. its glossy green leaves have an unpleasant fetid smell when crushed
solanum elaeagnifolium;weedy nightshade with silvery foliage and violet or blue or white flowers. roundish berry widely used to curdle milk. central united states to south america
soupfin shark;pacific shark valued for its fins (used by chinese in soup) and liver (rich in vitamin a)
abronia elliptica;plant having heads of fragrant white trumpet-shaped flowers. grows in sandy arid regions
elderberry bush;any of numerous shrubs or small trees of temperate and subtropical northern hemisphere having white flowers and berrylike fruit
tree squirrel;any typical arboreal squirrel
leptoptilus dubius;large indian stork with a military gait
earleaved umbrella tree;small erect deciduous tree with large leaves in whorllike formations at branch tips
coast polypody;stiff leathery-leaved fern of western north america having ovate fronds parted to the midrib
lathyrus palustris;scrambling perennial of damp or marshy areas of eurasia and north america with purplish flowers
spizella arborea;finch common in winter in the northern u.s.
kine;domesticated bovine animals as a group regardless of sex or age: 'so many head of cattle'. 'wait till the cows come home'. 'seven thin and ill-favored kine'- bible. 'a team of oxen'
blue cat;a large catfish of the mississippi valley
goldfinch;small european finch having a crimson face and yellow-and-black wings
water mill;a mill powered by a water wheel
corylus cornuta;hazel of western united states with conspicuous beaklike involucres on the nuts
sand cricket;large wingless nocturnal grasshopper that burrows in loose soil along the united states pacific coast
tonguefish;left-eyed marine flatfish whose tail tapers to a point. of little commercial value
bergenia;any plant of the genus bergenia. valued as an evergreen ground cover and for the spring blossoms
raffia taedigera;a tall brazilian feather palm with a terminal crown of very large leathery pinnatisect leaves rising from long strong stems used for structural purposes
mimus polyglotktos;long-tailed gray-and-white songbird of the southern united states able to mimic songs of other birds
sandalwood tree;indo-malayan parasitic tree having fragrant close-grained yellowish heartwood with insect-repelling properties and used for e.g. chests
canarybird vine;a climber having canary-colored flowers
passiflora quadrangularis;tropical american passionflower yielding the large granadilla fruit
holy clover;eurasian perennial herb having pale pink flowers and curved pods. naturalized in britain and north america grasslands on calcareous soils. important forage crop and source of honey in britain
giant ryegrass;stout perennial grass of western north america
old world coot;eurasian coot
lancewood tree;source of most of the lancewood of commerce
chrysophyllum cainito;evergreen tree of west indies and central america having edible purple fruit star-shaped in cross section and dark green leaves with golden silky undersides
ilama tree;tropical american tree grown in southern united states having a whitish pink-tinged fruit
wirehair;a terrier with wiry hair
amber lily;plant having basal grasslike leaves and a narrow open cluster of starlike yellowish-orange flowers atop a leafless stalk. southwestern united states. only species of anthericum growing in north america
poa pratensis;valuable meadow and pasture grass in europe and especially central united states having tall stalks and slender bright green leaves. a chief constituent in lawn grass mixtures
briony;a tendril-bearing vine of the genus bryonia having large leaves and small flowers and yielding acrid juice with emetic and purgative properties
senega snakeroot;eastern north american plant having a terminal cluster of small white flowers and medicinal roots
purslane speedwell;north american annual with small white flowers widely naturalized as a weed in south america and europe
asiatic beetle;introduced into united states from the orient. larvae feed on roots of sugarcane and other grasses
piper betel;asian pepper plant whose dried leaves are chewed with betel nut (seed of the betel palm) by southeast asians
terrietia trifoliolata;large tree of australasia
bidens connata;bur marigold of eastern and northern united states and canada common in wet pastures and meadows
northern woodsia;slender fern of northern north america with shining chestnut-colored stipes and bipinnate fronds with usually distinct marginal sori
watermeal;any of various aquatic plants of the genus wolffia. throughout warmer regions of the world
atlantic cod;one of the world's most important commercial fishes
stable companion;a horse stabled with another or one of several horses owned by the same person
slough grass;north american cordgrass having leaves with dry membranous margins and glumes with long awns
hop;twining perennials having cordate leaves and flowers arranged in conelike spikes
hog nosed skunk;large naked-muzzled skunk with white back and tail. of southwestern north america and mexico
rock purslane;a plant of the genus calandrinia
derris root;woody vine having bright green leaves and racemes of rose-tinted white flowers. the swollen roots contain rotenone
africander;tall large-horned humped south african cattle for meat or draft
canna indica;canna grown especially for its edible rootstock from which arrowroot starch is obtained
malpighia glabra;tropical american shrub bearing edible acid red fruit resembling cherries
evergreen beech;any of various beeches of the southern hemisphere having small usually evergreen leaves
yucca glauca;yucca of west central united states having a clump of basal grasslike leaves and a central stalk with a terminal raceme of small whitish flowers
acarus;a mite of the genus acarus
tang;brown algae seaweed with serrated edges
whipscorpion;nonvenomous arachnid that resembles a scorpion and that has a long thin stingless tail
dipodomys ordi;most widely distributed kangaroo rat: plains and mountain areas of central and western united states
european olive tree;evergreen tree cultivated in the mediterranean region since antiquity and now elsewhere. has edible shiny black fruits
wren;and of several small active brown birds of the northern hemisphere with short upright tails. they feed on insects
nipa palm;any creeping semiaquatic feather palm of the genus nipa found in mangrove swamps and tidal estuaries. its sap is used for a liquor. leaves are used for thatch. fruit has edible seeds
gallinaceon;heavy-bodied largely ground-feeding domestic or game birds
antennaria plantaginifolia;north american perennial propagated by means of runners
felt fern;east asian fern having fronds shaped like tongues. sometimes placed in genus cyclophorus
lepisosteus osseus;primitive predaceous north american fish covered with hard scales and having long jaws with needle-like teeth
brazilian pepper tree;small brazilian evergreen resinous tree or shrub having dark green leaflets and white flowers followed by bright red fruit. used as a street tree and lawn specimen
oxalis cernua;south african bulbous wood sorrel with showy yellow flowers
venus s girdle;ctenophore having a ribbon-shaped iridescent gelatinous body
dwarf willow;widely distributed boreal shrubby willow with partially underground creeping stems and bright green glossy leaves
mandevilla laxa;woody vine of argentina grown as an ornamental for its glossy leaves and racemes of large fragrant funnel-shaped creamy-white flowers
mud puppy;aquatic north american salamander with red feathery external gills
abies alba;tall timber tree of central and southern europe having a regular crown and gray bark
gambusia affinis;silvery topminnow with rows of black spots of tropical north america and west indies. important in mosquito control
striped dogwood;maple of eastern north america with striped bard and large 2-lobed leaves clear yellow in autumn
horseweed;common north american weed with linear leaves and small discoid heads of yellowish flowers. widely naturalized throughout temperate regions. sometimes placed in genus erigeron
whale;any of the larger cetacean mammals having a streamlined body and breathing through a blowhole on the head
passiflora maliformis;west indian passionflower with edible apple-sized fruit
cairn terrier;small rough-haired breed of terrier from scotland
bos banteng;wild ox of the malay archipelago
cypripedium reginae;pale pink wild orchid of northeastern america having an inflated pouchlike lip
crazyweed;any of several leguminous plants of western north america causing locoism in livestock
satureja calamintha glandulosa;low-growing strongly aromatic perennial herb of southern europe to gb naturalized in united states
marsh pink;pink-flowered marsh plant of the eastern united states
ringhals;highly venomous snake of southern africa able to spit venom up to seven feet
anhima cornuta;screamer having a hornlike process projecting from the forehead
osprey;large harmless hawk found worldwide that feeds on fish and builds a bulky nest often occupied for years
indian poke;north american plant having large leaves and yellowish green flowers growing in racemes. yields a toxic alkaloid used medicinally
ascolichen;a lichen in which the fungus component is an ascomycete
adam s apple;tropical shrub having glossy foliage and fragrant nocturnal flowers with crimped or wavy corollas. northern india to thailand
allmouth;fishes having large mouths with a wormlike filament attached for luring prey
blood lily;any of various deciduous or evergreen herbs of the genus haemanthus. south africa and namibia
cotswold;sheep with long wool originating in the cotswolds
thrinax keyensis;small stocky fan palm of southern florida and cuba
dusicyon cancrivorus;wild dog of northern south america
philadelphia fleabane;especially pretty plant having a delicate fringe of threadlike rays around flower heads having very slender white or pink rays. united states and canada
asimina triloba;small tree native to the eastern united states having oblong leaves and fleshy fruit
saxifraga hypnoides;tufted or mat-forming perennial of mountains of europe. cultivated for its white flowers
talinum brevifolium;low plant with crowded narrow succulent leaves and fairly large deep pink axillary flowers that seem to sit on the ground. southwestern united states
purple flowering raspberry;shrubby raspberry of eastern north america having showy rose to purplish flowers and red or orange thimble-shaped fruit
clinid fish;mostly small blennioid fishes of coral reefs and seagrass beds
pericallis hybrida;herb derived from pericallis_cruenta and widely cultivated in a variety of profusely flowering forms with florets from white to pink to red or purple or violet or blue. sometimes placed in genus cineraria
bursera simaruba;tropical american tree yielding a reddish resin used in cements and varnishes
ricebird;small finch-like indonesian weaverbird that frequents rice fields
lesser spearwort;semi-aquatic eurasian perennial crowfoot with spear-shaped leaves. naturalized in new zealand
polygonia comma;anglewing butterfly with a comma-shaped mark on the underside of each hind wing
rock bass;a kind of sea bass
wild spinach;european plant naturalized in north america. often collected from the wild as a potherb
silver spruce;tall spruce with blue-green needles and dense conic crown. older trees become columnar with lower branches sweeping downward
stalked puffball;puffball-like mushroom of the genus tulostoma
erythronium grandiflorum;dogtooth violet of western north america having bright yellow flowers
lagodon rhomboides;similar to sea bream. small spiny-finned fish found in bays along the southeastern coast of the united states
philadelphus;any of various chiefly deciduous ornamental shrubs of the genus philadelphus having white sweet-scented flowers, single or in clusters. widely grown in temperate regions
sea lion;any of several large eared seals of the north pacific related to fur seals but lacking their valuable coat
marsh marigold;swamp plant of europe and north america having bright yellow flowers resembling buttercups
ixodes scapularis;parasitic on mice of genus peromyscus (especially p. leucopus) and bites humans. principal vector for lyme disease in eastern united states (especially new england). northern form was for a time known as ixodes dammini (deer tick)
east indian rosebay;tropical shrub having glossy foliage and fragrant nocturnal flowers with crimped or wavy corollas. northern india to thailand
silkworm;hairless white caterpillar of the chinese silkworm moth. source of most commercial silk
grape leaf begonia;tuberous or semi-tuberous south african begonia having shallowly lobed ovate leaves and small white flowers
gas plant;eurasian perennial herb with white flowers that emit flammable vapor in hot weather
acanthus mollis;widely cultivated southern european acanthus with whitish purple-veined flowers
armyworm;noctuid moth larvae that travel in multitudes destroying esp. grass and grain
parr;a young salmon up to 2 years old
gadus morhua;one of the world's most important commercial fishes
river cooter;large river turtle of the southern united states and northern mexico
anthurium;any of various tropical american plants cultivated for their showy foliage and flowers
rheum palmatum;long used for laxative properties
calophyllum calaba;west indian tree having racemes of fragrant white flowers and yielding a durable timber and resinous juice
lycopus europaeus;hairy eurasian herb with two-lipped white flowers
woolly mammoth;very hairy mammoth common in colder portions of the northern hemisphere
pulsatilla occidentalis;of western north america
euphorbia heterophylla;showy poinsettia found from southern united states to peru. often confused with euphoria cyathophora
bishop s cap;any of various rhizomatous perennial herbs of the genus mitella having a capsule resembling a bishop's miter
common carline thistle;eurasian thistle growing in sand dunes and dry chalky soils
wire printer;a printer in which each character is represented by a pattern of dots
certhia americana;common american brown creeper with down-curved bill
false hellebore;perennial herbs of the lily family having thick toxic rhizomes
pullet;young hen usually less than a year old
hoya carnosa;succulent climber of southern asia with umbels of pink and white star-shaped flowers
acacia dealbata;evergreen australasian tree having white or silvery bark and young leaves and yellow flowers
shovel;a machine for excavating
common viper;small terrestrial viper common in northern eurasia
orris;german iris having large white flowers with lavender-tinged falls and a fragrant rhizome
cistus albidus;compact white pubescent shrub of southwestern europe having pink flowers
calliandra;any of various shrubs and small trees valued for their fine foliage and attractive spreading habit and clustered white to deep pink or red flowers
pentail;brown tree shrew having a naked tail bilaterally fringed with long stiff hairs on the distal third. of malaysia
okra;tall coarse annual of old world tropics widely cultivated in southern united states and west indies for its long mucilaginous green pods used as basis for soups and stews. sometimes placed in genus hibiscus
onchorynchus tshawtscha;large pacific salmon valued as food. adults die after spawning
true fungus;any of numerous fungi of the division eumycota
climbing boneset;herb of tropical america having vanilla-scented flowers. climbs up trees
treefrog;any of various old world arboreal frogs distinguished from true frogs by adhesive suckers on the toes
black bearberry;deciduous creeping shrub bright red in autumn having black or blue-black berries. alpine and circumpolar
anser anser;common gray wild goose of europe. ancestor of many domestic breeds
korean velvet grass;asiatic creeping perennial grass. introduced in southern united states as a dought-resistant lawn grass
linanthus dichotomus;small california annual with white flowers
anomalopteryx;the smallest moa. slender moa about the size of a large turkey
gamecock;a cock bred and trained for fighting
smallmouthed black bass;a variety of black bass. the angle of the jaw falls below the eye
hazel;australian tree grown especially for ornament and its fine-grained wood and bearing edible nuts
polybotria cervina;tropical american terrestrial fern with leathery lanceolate fronds. sometimes placed in genus polybotrya
rhea;smaller of two tall fast-running flightless birds similar to ostriches but three-toed. found from peru to straits of magellan
flowering shrub;shrub noted primarily for its flowers
erignathus barbatus;medium-sized grayish to yellow seal with bristles each side of muzzle. of arctic ocean
canna edulis;canna grown especially for its edible rootstock from which arrowroot starch is obtained
beach pea;wild pea of seashores of north temperate zone having tough roots and purple flowers and useful as a sand binder
cascade penstemon;whorls of deep blue to dark purple flowers at tips of erect leafy stems. moist places from british columbia to oregon
menyanthes trifoliata;perennial plant of europe and america having racemes of white or purplish flowers and intensely bitter trifoliate leaves. often rooting at water margin and spreading across the surface
common bird cherry;small european cherry tree closely resembling the american chokecherry
butterfly pea;vine of tropical asia having pinnate leaves and bright blue yellow-centered flowers
echidnophaga gallinacea;parasitic on esp. the heads of chickens
asclepia meadii;milkweed of central north america. a threatened species
beggar s lice;any of various eurasian and north american plants having small prickly nutlets that stick to clothing
scorzonera hispanica;perennial south european herb having narrow entire leaves and solitary yellow flower heads and long black-skinned carrot-shaped edible roots
verdin;very small yellow-headed titmouse of western north america
ptychozoon homalocephalum;having membranous expansions along sides of body and limbs and tail
viroid;a plant virus with its rna arranged in a circular chromosome without a protein coat
myxoma virus;a poxvirus closely related to smallpox virus. causes benign gelatinous tumors in humans
mosquitofish;silvery topminnow with rows of black spots of tropical north america and west indies. important in mosquito control
calamintha grandiflora;aromatic herb with large pink flowers. southern and southeastern europe. anatolia. northern iran
drypis;spiny-leaved perennial herb of southern europe having terminal clusters of small flowers
acris gryllus;cricket frog of eastern united states
pteridium esculentum;fern of southeastern asia. not hardy in cold temperate regions
accipitriformes;in some classifications an alternative name for the falconiformes
green smut fungus;fungus causing green smut in rice
dredge;a machine to remove material from a channel or riverbed
prairie cordgrass;north american cordgrass having leaves with dry membranous margins and glumes with long awns
west indian cherry;tropical american shrub bearing edible acid red fruit resembling cherries
tuckahoe;perennial herb of the eastern united states having arrowhead-shaped leaves and an elongate pointed spathe and green berries
cynocephalus variegatus;a variety of flying lemur
pyxidanthera barbulata;creeping evergreen shrub having narrow overlapping leaves and early white star-shaped flowers. of pine barrens of nj and the carolinas
button snakeroot;any of various north american plants of the genus liatris having racemes or panicles of small discoid flower heads
tarsius syrichta;a variety of tarsier
blastodermic vesicle;early stage of an embryo produced by cleavage of an ovum. a hollow sphere whose wall is composed of a single layer of cells
wolfhound;the largest breed of dogs. formerly used to hunt wolves
asparagus fern;a fernlike plant native to south africa
chaenopsis ocellata;found from florida to cuba
port orford cedar;large timber tree of western north america with trunk diameter to 12 feet and height to 200 feet
stork;large mostly old world wading birds typically having white-and-black plumage
wild lily of the valley;north american evergreen with small pinkish bell-shaped flowers and oblong leaves used formerly for shinplasters
toucanet;small toucan
pony;an informal term for a racehorse. 'he liked to bet on the ponies'
brown hickory;an american hickory tree having bitter nuts
osier;any of various willows having pliable twigs used in basketry and furniture
pinus quadrifolia;5-needled pinon of southern california and northern baja california having (sometimes 3- or 4-needled showing hybridization from pinus californiarum)
acocanthera oppositifolia;evergreen shrub or tree of south africa
crataegus marshallii;southern united states hawthorn with pinnately lobed leaves
majorana hortensis;aromatic european plant native to mediterranean and turkey. not widespread in europe
skunkbush;deciduous shrub of california with unpleasantly scented usually trivoliate leaves and edible fruit
jaggery palm;fishtail palm of india to malay peninsula. sap yields a brown sugar (jaggery) and trunk pith yields sago
blenheim spaniel;red-and-white variety of english toy spaniel
juglans regia;eurasian walnut valued for its large edible nut and its hard richly figured wood. widely cultivated
macrodactylus subspinosus;common north american beetle: larvae feed on roots and adults on leaves and flowers of e.g. rose bushes or apple trees or grape vines
lemon sumac;sweet-scented sumac of eastern america having ternate leaves and yellowish-green flowers in spikes resembling catkins followed by red hairy fruits
minnie mouse;the partner of mickey mouse
mountain gorilla;of kivu highlands
penstemon whippleanus;wine-lavender to black-purple flowers in several clusters on the upper half of leafy stems. montana south through the rocky mountain regions to arizona and new mexico
laughing hyena;african hyena noted for its distinctive howl
sloanea jamaicensis;west indian timber tree having very hard wood
jew bush;low tropical american shrub having powerful emetic properties
javanthropus;former genus of primitive man. now homo soloensis: comprises solo man
saigon cinnamon;tropical southeast asian tree with aromatic bark. yields a bark used medicinally
habenaria orbiculata;orchid having a raceme of large greenish-white flowers on a single flower stalk growing between two elliptic or round basal leaves lying on the ground. from northern oregon and montana across canada to the eastern united states
composite;considered the most highly evolved dicotyledonous plants, characterized by florets arranged in dense heads that resemble single flowers
citrus decumana;southeastern asian tree producing large fruits resembling grapefruits
gyromitra fastigiata;a lorchel with deep brownish red fertile part and white stalk
lappet moth;medium-sized hairy moths. larvae are lappet caterpillars
mithan;ox of southeast asia sometimes considered a domesticated breed of the gaur
apple mint;mint with apple-scented stems of southern and western europe. naturalized in united states
polianthes tuberosa;a tuberous mexican herb having grasslike leaves and cultivated for its spikes of highly fragrant lilylike waxy white flowers
thecodont;presumably in the common ancestral line to dinosaurs and crocodiles and birds
lungen;tree of southeastern asia to australia grown primarily for its sweet translucent-fleshed edible fruit resembling litchi nuts. sometimes placed in genera euphoria or nephelium
pythium debaryanum;fungus causing damping off disease in seedlings
holstein;a breed of dairy cattle from northern holland
desmodium tortuosum;west indian forage plant cultivated in southern united states as forage and to improve soil
red fox;weedy annual with spikes of silver-white flowers
crowfoot grass;a creeping grass with spikes like fingers
chamaeleo chamaeleon;a chameleon found in africa
horned screamer;screamer having a hornlike process projecting from the forehead
jabiru mycteria;large white stork of warm regions of the world esp. america
lophodytes cucullatus;small north american duck with a high circular crest on the male's head
fritillaria liliaceae;california herb with white conic or bell-shaped flowers usually green-tinged
ambystoma maculatum;glossy black north american salamander with yellow spots
brier;evergreen treelike mediterranean shrub having fragrant white flowers in large terminal panicles and hard woody roots used to make tobacco pipes
singletary pea;week-stemmed winter annual native to mediterranean region for long established in southern united states. cultivated as a cover and pasture crop
marsh st john s wort;perennial marsh herb with pink to mauve flowers. southeastern united states
vorticella;protozoa having a transparent goblet-shaped body with a retractile stalk
cabbage palm;brazilian palm of genus euterpe whose leaf buds are eaten like cabbage when young
hawkbill;pugnacious tropical sea turtle with a hawk-like beak. source of food and the best tortoiseshell
cygnet;a young swan
common lynx;of northern eurasia
rhus ovata;evergreen shrub of southeastern united states with spikes of reddish-yellow flowers and glandular hairy fruits
monkshood;a poisonous herb native to northern europe having hooded blue-purple flowers. the dried leaves and roots yield aconite
opepe;large african forest tree yielding a strong hard yellow to golden brown lumber. sometimes placed in genus sarcocephalus
menticirrhus americanus;whiting of the southeastern coast of north america
gnawing animal;relatively small gnawing animals having a single pair of constantly growing incisor teeth specialized for gnawing
leafminer;any of various small moths or dipterous flies whose larvae burrow into and feed on leaf tissue esp. of the family gracilariidae
antler moth;european moth with white antler-like markings on the forewings. the larvae damage pastures and grasslands
decapterus punctatus;small fusiform fish of western atlantic
arachnoid;air-breathing arthropods characterized by simple eyes and four pairs of legs
wild clary;eurasian sage with blue flowers and verbenalike foliage. naturalized in united states
cocculus carolinus;woody vine of southeastern united states resembling the common moonseed but having red fruits
ram s horn;annual of southern united states to mexico having large whitish or yellowish flowers mottled with purple and a long curving beak
nierembergia repens;prostrate woody south american herb with white tubular flowers often tinged with blue or rose
pissaba palm;brazilian palm yielding fibers used in making ropes, mats, and brushes
asplenium nigripes;a fern of the genus schaffneria
jacksnipe;american sandpiper that inflates its chest when courting
horse parsley;european herb somewhat resembling celery widely naturalized in britain coastal regions and often cultivated as a potherb
pit viper;new world vipers with hollow fangs and a heat-sensitive pit on each side of the head
rattletop;north american bugbane found from main and ontario to wisconsin and south to georgia
hardenbergia comnptoniana;vigorous climber of the forests of western australia. grown for their dense racemes of attractive bright rose-purple flowers
plumeria acutifolia;frangipani of india having an erect habit and conical form. grown in temple gardens
mola lanceolata;caudal fin has a central projection
toothed sword fern;tropical american fern cultivated for its finely divided grayish-green foliage. west indies and southern mexico to peru and brazil
plectognath;tropical marine fishes having the teeth fused into a beak and thick skin covered with bony plates or spines
pinus jeffreyi;tall symmetrical pine of western north america having long blue-green needles in bunches of 3 and elongated cones on spreading somewhat pendulous branches. sometimes classified as a variety of ponderosa pine
cat flea;breeds chiefly on cats and dogs and rats
erythronium californicum;california dogtooth violet with creamy white flowers sometimes yellow-tinged
halesia tetraptera;medium-sized tree of west virginia to florida and texas
spotted lynx;of southern europe
golden polypody;mat-forming lithophytic or terrestrial fern with creeping rootstocks and large pinnatifid fronds found throughout north america and europe and africa and east asia
decumary;woody climber of southeastern united states having white flowers in compound terminal clusters
snowdrop anemone;eurasian herb with solitary nodding fragrant white flowers
hirundo rustica;common swallow of north america and europe that nests in barns etc.
celosia cristata;garden annual with featherlike spikes of red or yellow flowers
redhorse;north american sucker with reddish fins
caladium;any plant of the genus caladium cultivated for their ornamental foliage variously patterned in white or pink or red
downy ground cherry;decorative american annual having round fleshy yellow berries enclosed in a bladderlike husk
nicandra physaloides;coarse south american herb grown for its blue-and-white flowers followed by a bladderlike fruit enclosing a dry berry
california tree poppy;tall branching subshrub of california and mexico often cultivated for its silvery-blue foliage and large fragrant white flowers
threadworm;small threadlike worm infesting human intestines and rectum esp. in children
aleurites moluccana;large tree native to southeastern asia. the nuts yield oil used in varnishes. nut kernels strung together are used locally as candles
dray horse;horse adapted for drawing heavy loads
english hawthorn;european hawthorn having deeply cleft leaves and bright red fruits. widely cultivated in many varieties and often grown as impenetrable hedges. established as an escape in eastern north america
equine;hoofed mammals having slender legs and a flat coat with a narrow mane along the back of the neck
red periwinkle;commonly cultivated old world woody herb having large pinkish to red flowers
blessed thistle;annual of mediterranean to portugal having hairy stems and minutely spiny-toothed leaves and large heads of yellow flowers
strombus gigas;a large variety of conch
stonefish;venomous tropical marine fish resembling a piece of rock
vaccinium oxycoccus;small red-fruited trailing cranberry of arctic and cool regions of the northern hemisphere
goose grass;coarse annual grass having fingerlike spikes of flowers. native to old world tropics. a naturalized weed elsewhere
slender tailed meerkat;a meerkat with a thin and elongated tail
marblewood;hard marbled wood
taro;herb of the pacific islands grown throughout the tropics for its edible root and in temperate areas as an ornamental for its large glossy leaves
yam bean;central american twining plant with edible roots and pods. large tubers are eaten raw or cooked especially when young and young pods must be thoroughly cooked. pods and seeds also yield rotenone and oils
bacon and eggs;european forage plant having claw-shaped pods introduced in america
blue jessamine;climber of southern united states having bluish-purple flowers
falcatifolium falciforme;small tropical rain forest tree of indonesia and malaysia
northern sea robin;large searobin. found from nova scotia to florida
puffbird;brownish tropical american bird having a large head with fluffed out feathers
ramontchi;small shrubby tree of madagascar cultivated in tropical regions as a hedge plant and for its deep red acid fruits resembling small plums
adam and eve;north american orchid bearing a single leaf and yellowish-brown flowers
ivory plant;a stemless palm tree of brazil and peru bearing ivory nuts
prunus laurocerasus;frequently cultivated eurasian evergreen shrub or small tree having showy clusters of white flowers and glossy foliage and yielding oil similar to bitter almond oil
persian violet;perennial cultivated especially as a houseplant for its fragrant bluish to dark lavender flowers
ridgling;a colt with undescended testicles
european catfish;large elongated catfish of central and eastern europe
hooded sheldrake;small north american duck with a high circular crest on the male's head
felis ocreata;widely distributed wildcat of africa and asia minor
european water shrew;widely distributed old world water shrew
amelanchier alnifolia;shrub or small tree of northwestern north america having fragrant creamy white flowers and small waxy purple-red fruits
swertia perennia;perennial of damp places in mountains of eurasia and north america having dull-colored blue or violet flowers
september elm;autumn-flowering elm of southeastern united states
boneset;perennial herb of southeastern united states having white-rayed flower heads. formerly used as in folk medicine
gladdon iris;iris with purple flowers and evil-smelling leaves. southern and western europe and north africa
canis rufus;reddish-gray wolf of southwestern north america
shaggymane mushroom;common edible mushroom having an elongated shaggy white cap and black spores
aardwolf;striped mammal of southeast africa that feeds chiefly on insects
bastard indigo;east indian shrub
date palm;tall tropical feather palm tree native to syria bearing sweet edible fruit
katydid;large green long-horned grasshopper of north america. males produce shrill sounds by rubbing together special organs on the forewings
searobin;american gurnard. mostly found in bays and estuaries
impala;african antelope with ridged curved horns. moves with enormous leaps
mexican pocket mouse;large pocket mouse of mexico
runaway robin;trailing european aromatic plant of the mint family having rounded leaves and small purplish flowers often grown in hanging baskets. naturalized in north america. sometimes placed in genus nepeta
quercus ellipsoidalis;small to medium deciduous oak of east central north america. leaves have sharply pointed lobes
catananche;any of several plants of the genus catananche having long-stalked heads of blue or yellow flowers
prairie gentian;one of the most handsome prairie wildflowers laving large erect bell-shaped bluish flowers. of moist places in prairies and fields from eastern colorado and nebraska south to new mexico and texas
emperor;large moth of temperate forests of eurasia having heavily scaled transparent wings
mailsorter;a machine for sorting mail according to the address
ring ouzel;european thrush common in rocky areas. the male has blackish plumage with a white band around the neck
wild peanut;vine widely distributed in eastern north america producing racemes of purple to maroon flowers and abundant usually subterranean edible peanutlike one-seeded pods
marine animal;any of numerous animals inhabiting the sea including e.g. fishes and molluscs and many mammals
black cottonwood;north american poplar with large rounded scalloped leaves and brownish bark and wood
mission bells;herb of northwestern america having green-and-purple bell-shaped flowers
smooth earthball;an earthball with a peridium that is firm dry and smooth when young but developing cracks when mature. pale orange-yellow when young and reddish brown at maturity
geum virginianum;avens of virginia having pale or greenish yellow flowers
podaxaceae;a variety of gastromycete
silky dogwood;shrub of eastern north america having purplish stems and blue fruit
grison;carnivore of central and south america resembling a weasel with a grayish-white back and dark underparts
erodium texanum;of prairies and desert areas of southwestern united states and mexico
soursop tree;small tropical american tree bearing large succulent slightly acid fruit
oxeye daisy;tall leafy-stemmed eurasian perennial with white flowers. widely naturalized. often placed in genus chrysanthemum
cottonmouth;venomous semiaquatic snake of swamps in southern united states
alopius vulpinus;large pelagic shark of warm seas with a whiplike tail used to round up small fish on which to feed
trachelospermum jasminoides;evergreen chinese woody climber with shiny dark green leaves and intensely fragrant white flowers
crocanthemum canadensei;perennial of the eastern united states having early solitary yellow flowers followed by late petalless flowers. so-called because ice crystals form on it during first frosts
river limpet;minute conical gastropod superficially resembling a limpet but living and feeding on freshwater plants
redbelly;freshwater turtle of chesapeake bay tributaries having red markings on the lower shell
scammony;tropical american morning glory
plateau striped whiptail;having distinct longitudinal stripes: of colorado plateau from arizona to western colorado
white chinned petrel;large black petrel of southern seas having a white mark on the chin
goose grass;low-growing perennial having leaves silvery beneath. northern united states. europe. asia
flat coated retriever;an english breed having a shiny black or liver-colored coat. retrieves game from land or water
mountain lily;golden-rayed lily of japan
lady s earrings;north american annual plant with usually yellow or orange flowers. grows chiefly on wet rather acid soil
motor;converts other forms of energy into mechanical energy and so imparts motion
tangor;large citrus tree having large sweet deep orange fruit that is easily peeled. widely cultivated in florida
hogchoker;useless as food. in coastal streams from maine to texas and panama
exmoor;horned sheep of devonshire in england. valued for mutton
tyrannus vociferans;a kingbird seen in the southwestern united states. largely gray with a yellow abdomen
nymphaea odorata;a water lily having large leaves and showy fragrant flowers that float on the water. of temperate and tropical regions
lactarius delicioso;edible mushroom
astronium fraxinifolium;tall tropical american timber tree especially abundant in eastern brazil. yields hard strong durable zebrawood with straight grain and dark strips on a pinkish to yellowish ground. widely used for veneer and furniture and heavy construction
fowl;a domesticated gallinaceous bird though to be descended from the red jungle fowl
white mangrove;a small to medium-sized tree growing in brackish water especially along the shores of the southwestern pacific
holothurian;echinoderm having a flexible sausage-shaped body, tentacles surrounding the mouth and tube feet. free-living mud feeders: sea cucumbers
paper rush;tall sedge of the nile valley yielding fiber that served many purposes in historic times
sciaena aquila;large european marine food fish
frogbit;european floating plant with roundish heart-shaped leaves and white flowers
reef whitetip shark;smooth dogfish of pacific and indian oceans and red sea having white-tipped dorsal and caudal fins
geranium pratense;tall perennial cranesbill with paired violet-blue axillary flowers. native to northern parts of old world and naturalized in north america
rosa chinensis;shrubby chinese rose. ancestor of many cultivated garden roses
sturnella magna;a meadowlark of eastern north america
tetrahymena;relative of the paramecium. often used in genetics research
sugarcane;tall tropical southeast asian grass having stout fibrous jointed stalks. sap is a chief source of sugar
red breasted merganser;widely distributed merganser of america and europe
cumin;dwarf mediterranean annual long cultivated for its aromatic seeds
flying cat;arboreal nocturnal mammal of southeast asia and the philippines resembling a lemur and having a fold of skin on each side from neck to tail that is used for long gliding leaps
alpine ash;tall timber tree with hard heavy pinkish or light brown wood
reedmace;tall marsh plant with pokerlike seed heads that explode when mature shedding large quantities of down. its long flat leaves are used for making mats and chair seats. of north america, europe, asia and north africa
eucalyptus maculata citriodora;similar to but smaller than the spotted gum and having lemon-scented leaves
haemoproteid;related to malaria parasite and having a phase in the viscera of various birds
bombycid;moderate-sized asiatic moth whose larvae feed on mulberry leaves and produce silk
lobster plant;tropical american plant having poisonous milk and showy tapering usually scarlet petallike leaves surrounding small yellow flowers
checkerberry;creeping shrub of eastern north america having white bell-shaped flowers followed by spicy red berrylike fruit and shiny aromatic leaves that yield wintergreen oil
pickaback plant;vigorous perennial herb with flowers in erect racemes and having young plants develop at the junction of a leaf blade and the leafstalk
squirting cucumber;mediterranean vine having oblong fruit that when ripe expels its seeds and juice violently when touched
greeneye;bottom-livers having large eyes with metallic green luster
bear;massive plantigrade carnivorous or omnivorous mammals with long shaggy coats and strong claws
chichipe;tall treelike mexican cactus with edible red fruit
loach;slender freshwater fishes of eurasia and africa resembling catfishes
myricaria germanica;eurasian shrub resembling the tamarisk
flowering hazel;any of several asiatic deciduous shrubs cultivated for their nodding racemes of yellow flowers that appear before the leaves
alpinia zerumbet;cultivated for its shining oblong leaves and arching clusters of white flowers with shell-pink shading and crinkled yellow lip with variegated magenta stripes
poison pea;any of various australian evergreen shrubs of the genus gastrolobium having whorled compound leaves poisonous to livestock and showy yellow to deep reddish-orange flowers followed by two-seeded pods
trialeurodes vaporariorum;whitefly that inhabits greenhouses
caraway;a eurasian plant with small white flowers yielding caraway seed
spider flower;native to south america but naturalized in warm parts of united states. grown for its long-lasting spider-shaped white to pink-purple flowers
hog peanut;vine widely distributed in eastern north america producing racemes of purple to maroon flowers and abundant usually subterranean edible peanutlike one-seeded pods
polystichum acrostichoides;north american evergreen fern having pinnate leaves and dense clusters of lance-shaped fronds
sula bassana;very large white gannet with black wing tips
salix amygdaloides;willow of the western united states with leaves like those of peach or almond trees
coral snake;any of various venomous elapid snakes of asia and africa and australia
dutch iris;bulbous spanish iris with red-violet flowers
aerogenerator;extracts usable energy from winds
chrysopid;pale green unpleasant-smelling lacewing fly having carnivorous larvae
erolia minutilla;smallest american sandpiper
clematis ochreleuca;shrubby clematis of the eastern united states having curly foliage
muscovy duck;large crested wild duck of central and south america. widely domesticated
shad;herring-like food fishes that migrate from the sea to freshwater to spawn
australian pitcher plant;carnivorous perennial herb having a red-brown-marked green pitcher and hinged lid both with red edges. western australia
cyrilla;shrub or small tree of southeastern united states to west indies and brazil. grown for the slender racemes of white flowers and orange-crimson foliage
prairie fox;small gray fox of the plains of western north america
earthball;any of various fungi of the genus scleroderma having hard-skinned subterranean trufflelike fruiting bodies
arabian jasmine;east indian evergreen vine cultivated for its profuse fragrant white flowers
snow goose;blue goose in the white color phase
plantago rugelii;north american plantain having reddish leafstalks and broad leaves
pygoscelis adeliae;medium-sized penguins occurring in large colonies on the adelie coast of antarctica
lithospermum officinale;european perennial branching plant. occurs in hedgerows and at the edge of woodlands
kalantas;philippine timber tree having hard red fragrant wood
peperomia argyreia;grown as a houseplant for its silvery striped fleshy foliage. south america
hairy willowherb;plant of europe and asia having purplish-red flowers and hairy stems and leaves. introduced into north america
barilla;bushy plant of old world salt marshes and sea beaches having prickly leaves. burned to produce a crude soda ash
polypodium scouleri;stiff leathery-leaved fern of western north america having ovate fronds parted to the midrib
squirreltail grass;barley grown for its highly ornamental flower heads with delicate long silky awns. north america and northeastern asia
pennyroyal;eurasian perennial mint have small lilac-blue flowers and ovate leaves. yields an aromatic oil
teak;tall east indian timber tree now planted in western africa and tropical america for its hard durable wood
scented fern;common perennial aromatic herb native to eurasia having buttonlike yellow flower heads and bitter-tasting pinnate leaves sometimes used medicinally
thespesia populnea;pantropical tree of usually seacoasts sometimes cultivated as an ornamental for its rounded heart-shaped leaves and showy yellow and purple flowers. yields valuable pink to dark red close-grained wood and oil from its seeds
common blackfish;small dark-colored whaled of united states atlantic coast. the largest male acts as pilot or leader for the school
plecopteran;primitive winged insect with a flattened body. used as bait by fishermen. aquatic gilled larvae are carnivorous and live beneath stones
porzana porzana;eurasian rail of swamps and marshes
horsebrier;a very prickly woody vine of the eastern united states growing in tangled masses having tough round stems with shiny leathery leaves and small greenish flowers followed by clusters of inedible shiny black berries
lysiloma bahamensis;a tamarindlike tree of the west indies and florida and mexico having long flat pods
sparrow;small brownish european songbird
toe toe;tall grass of new zealand grown for plumelike flower heads
dalea spinosa;grayish-green shrub of desert regions of southwestern united states nd mexico having sparse foliage and terminal spikes of bluish violet flowers. locally important as source of a light-colored honey of excellent flavor
yellow spiny daisy;slender perennial of western north america having weakly bristly leaves and yellow flower heads
cathartid;large birds of prey superficially similar to old world vultures
ailuropoda melanoleuca;large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of china and tibet. in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family ailuropodidae
oxeye;any north american shrubby perennial herb of the genus heliopsis having large yellow daisylike flowers
haemulon macrostomum;a kind of grunt
papaver heterophyllum;california wild poppy with bright red flowers
lonicera xylosteum;cultivated eurasian shrub with twin yellowish-white flowers and scarlet fruit
reed meadow grass;a pasture grass of moist places throughout north america
todea barbara;fern of rain forests of tropical australia and new zealand and south africa
house centipede;long-legged centipede common in damp places as e.g. cellars
cyamopsis psoraloides;drought-tolerant herb grown for forage and for its seed which yield a gum used as a thickening agent or sizing material
garcinia mangostana;east indian tree with thick leathery leaves and edible fruit
black necked stork;large mostly white australian stork
choloepus didactylus;relatively small fast-moving sloth
zigzag goldenrod;a variety of goldenrod
whisk fern;chiefly tropical clump-forming plants of skeletal broom-like appearance lacking roots
lilium superbum;lily of the eastern united states with orange to red maroon-spotted flowers
ageratum houstonianum;small tender herb grown for its fluffy brushlike blue to lavender blooms
throstle;a spinning machine formerly used to twist and wind fibers of cotton or wool continuously
myocastor coypus;aquatic south american rodent resembling a small beaver. bred for its fur
garcinia hanburyi;low spreading tree of indonesia yielding an orange to brown gum resin (gamboge) used as a pigment when powdered
disa;any orchid of the genus disa. beautiful orchids with dark green leaves and usually hooded flowers. much prized as emblematic flowers in their native regions
pudding berry;creeping red-berried perennial herb distinguished by clustered leaf whorls at tips of shoots. greenland to alaska
herb mercury;eurafrican annual naturalized in america as a weed. formerly dried for use as a purgative, diuretic or antisyphilitic
easter lily;tall lily have large white trumpet-shaped flowers that bloom in the spring
dwarf mountain pine;low shrubby pine of central europe with short bright green needles in bunches of two
lobularia maritima;perennial european plant having clusters of small fragrant usually white flowers. widely grown in gardens
collocalia inexpectata;swift of eastern asia. produces the edible bird's nest
jewelweed;north american annual plant with usually yellow or orange flowers. grows chiefly on wet rather acid soil
tetra;brightly colored tropical freshwater fishes
good king henry;european plant naturalized in north america. often collected from the wild as a potherb
swan orchid;any of several orchids of the genus cycnoches having slender arching columns of flowers suggesting the neck of a swan
hippoglossus hippoglossus;largest united states flatfish
yucca carnerosana;arborescent yucca of southwestern united states and northern mexico with sword-shaped leaves and white flowers
paviour;a machine for laying pavement
barbados gooseberry vine;west indian woody scrambler with spiny stems and numerous fragrant white flowers in panicles followed by small yellow to orange fruits
quamoclit pennata;tropical american annual climber having red (sometimes white) flowers and finely dissected leaves. naturalized in united states and elsewhere
garland flower;widely cultivated low evergreen shrub with dense clusters of fragrant pink to deep rose flowers
crotalus viridis;widely distributed between the mississippi and the rockies
redfish;male salmon that has recently spawned
araucaria bidwillii;australian conifer bearing two-inch seeds tasting like roasted chestnuts. among the aborigines the tree is hereditary property protected by law
rhea americana;larger of two tall fast-running flightless birds similar to ostriches but three-toed. found from brazil to patagonia
calochortus kennedyi;mariposa with clusters of bell-shaped vermilion or orange or yellow flowers atop short stems. southern california to arizona and mexico
mackerel shark;fierce pelagic and oceanic sharks
honey plant;a plant that furnishes nectar suitable for making honey
desert pea;sprawling shrubby perennial noted for its scarlet black-marked flowers. widely distributed in dry parts of australia
arabian coffee;shrubby tree of northeastern tropical africa widely cultivated in tropical or near tropical regions for its seed which form most of the commercial coffee
quercus borealis;large symmetrical deciduous tree with rounded crown widely distributed in eastern north america. has large leaves with triangular spiny tipped lobes and coarse-grained wood less durable than that of white oaks
flicker;north american woodpecker
crataegus laevigata;thorny eurasian shrub of small tree having dense clusters of white to scarlet flowers followed by deep red berries. established as an escape in eastern north america
seaweed;plant growing in the sea, especially marine algae
crucifer;any of various plants of the family cruciferae
heathfowl;large north european black grouse with a lyre-shaped tail
crotalaria spectabilis;erect subshrub having purple-tinted flowers and an inflated pod in which the ripe seeds rattle. india
winged pigweed;bushy annual weed of central north america having greenish flowers and winged seeds
carnivore;terrestrial or aquatic flesh-eating mammal. terrestrial carnivores have four or five clawed digits on each limb
sword grass;any of various grasses or sedges having sword-shaped leaves with sharp edges
anethum graveolens;aromatic old world herb having aromatic threadlike foliage and seeds used as seasoning
mohria caffrorum;sweetly scented african fern with narrow bipinnate fronds
santa lucia fir;a pyramidal fir of southwestern california having spiny pointed leaves and cone scales with long spines
swamp lily;north american herbaceous perennial of wet places having slender curled tail-like racemes of small white flowers
beaked salmon;fish of sandy areas of western pacific and indian oceans having an angular snout for burrowing into sand
spirochete;parasitic or free-living bacteria. many pathogenic to humans and other animals
globeflower;any of several plants of the genus trollius having globose yellow flowers
acer palmatum;ornamental shrub or small tree of japan and korea with deeply incised leaves. cultivated in many varieties
bridalwreath;shrub having copious small white flowers in spring
oxandra lanceolata;source of most of the lancewood of commerce
warbler;a small active songbird
japanese flowering cherry;ornamental tree with inedible fruit widely cultivated in many varieties for its pink blossoms
windmill grass;perennial australian grass having numerous long spikes arranged like the vanes of a windmill
bearcat;arboreal civet of asia having a long prehensile tail and shaggy black hair
malpighia obovata;cuban timber tree with hard wood very resistant to moisture
melon vine;any of various fruit of cucurbitaceous vines including: muskmelons. watermelons. cantaloupes. cucumbers
morus nigra;european mulberry having dark foliage and fruit
sunfish;among the largest bony fish. pelagic fish having an oval compressed body with high dorsal and anal fins and caudal fin reduced to a rudder-like lobe. worldwide in warm waters
rangifer arcticus;of tundra of northern canada. in some classifications included in the species rangifer tarandus
white rocket;from mediterranean region. a naturalized weed throughout southern europe
globigerina;marine protozoan having a rounded shell with spiny processes
downy manzanita;erect openly branched california shrub whose twigs are woolly when young
piddock;marine bivalve that bores into rock or clay or wood by means of saw-like shells
ximenesia encelioides;coarse grayish green annual yellow-flowered herb. southwestern united states to mexico
purple fringed orchid;north american orchid similar to habenaria psycodes with larger paler flowers
lycaon pictus;a powerful doglike mammal of south and east africa that hunts in large packs. now rare in settled area
cyprinodont;any member of the family cyprinodontidae
trapa natans;a variety of water_chestnut
pedilanthus pavonis;wax-coated mexican shrub related to euphorbia antisyphilitica
surf fish;small to medium-sized shallow-water fishes of the north american pacific coast
thyme;any of various mints of the genus thymus
sugar maple;maple of eastern and central north america having 3- to 5-lobed leaves and hard close-grained wood much used for cabinet work especially the curly-grained form. sap is chief source of maple syrup and maple sugar. many subspecies
nycticebus pygmaeus;stocky lemur of southeastern asia
finback whale;large flat-headed whalebone whale having deep furrows along the throat. of atlantic and pacific
lygodium microphyllum;tropical fern widespread in old world. naturalized in jamaica and florida
basket fish;any starfish-like animal of the genera euryale or astrophyton or gorgonocephalus having slender complexly branched interlacing arms radiating from a central disc
domestic goat;any of various breeds raised for milk or meat or wool
woolly alder aphid;attacks alders
scarlet clematis;woody vine of texas having showy solitary nodding scarlet flowers
baphia nitida;small shrubby african tree with hard wood used as a dyewood yielding a red dye
sea poppy;yellow-flowered eurasian glaucous herb naturalized in along sandy shores in eastern north america
lorchel;a large fungus of the family helvellaceae
prunus tenella;asiatic shrub cultivated for its rosy red flowers
flea;any wingless blood-sucking parasitic insect noted for ability to leap
chittamwood;shrubby tree of united states pacific coast. yields cascara sagrada
velvetleaf;arborescent perennial shrub having palmately lobed furry leaves and showy red-purple flowers. southwestern united states
black archangel;ill-smelling european herb with rugose leaves and whorls of dark purple flowers
penstemon centranthifolius;plant with bright red tubular flowers in long narrow clusters near tips of erect stems. coastal ranges from central california southward
elkwood;small deciduous open-crowned tree of eastern north america having creamy white flowers and large leaves in umbrellalike formations at ends of branches
horsemint;a coarse old world wild water mint having long leaves and spikelike clusters of flowers. naturalized in the eastern united states
alyssum;any garden plant of the genus alyssum having clusters of small yellow or white flowers
capparis spinosa;prostrate spiny shrub of the mediterranean region cultivated for its greenish flower buds which are pickled
clethra alnifolia;shrub of eastern and southern coastal united states having beautiful racemes of spice-scented white flowers
common beet;biennial eurasian plant usually having a swollen edible root. widely cultivated as a food crop
antirrhinum coulterianum;california plant with slender wandlike racemes of white flowers
wolffish;large ferocious northern deep-sea food fishes with strong teeth and no pelvic fins
orchid tree;small east indian tree having orchidlike flowers and hard dark wood
giraffe;tallest living quadruped. having a spotted coat and small horns and very long neck and legs. of savannahs of tropical africa
cortinarius armillatus;a fungus with large tawny caps and pale cinnamon gills and a red band of veil around the stalk. usually found near birch trees
hairy tare;european vetch much cultivated as forage and cover crops
cream of tartar tree;australian tree having an agreeably acid gourd-like fruit
kyphosus sectatrix;food and game fish around bermuda and florida. often follow ships
pacific yew;small or medium irregularly branched tree of the pacific coast of north america. yields fine hard close-grained wood
snake;limbless scaly elongate reptile. some are venomous
owlclaws;stout perennial herb of western united states having flower heads with drooping orange-yellow rays. causes spewing sickness in sheep
raffia ruffia;a large feather palm of africa and madagascar having very long pinnatisect fronds yielding a strong commercially important fiber from its leafstalks
solanum nigrum guineese;improved garden variety of black nightshade having small edible orange or black berries
wilson s snipe;american snipe
codling;young codfish
microtus ochrogaster;typical vole of the extended prairie region of central united states and southern canada
purple hooded orchis;north american orchid having a spike of violet-purple flowers mixed with white. sepals and petals form a hood
buck;mature male of various mammals (especially deer or antelope)
samolus floribundus;american water pimpernel
asp;cobra used by the pharaohs as a symbol of their power over life and death
sword bean;twining tropical old world plant bearing long pods usually with red or brown beans. long cultivated in orient for food
beaked hazelnut;hazel of western united states with conspicuous beaklike involucres on the nuts
clotbur;any of several erect biennial herbs of temperate eurasia having stout taproots and producing burs
gallus gallus;bred for flesh or eggs. believed to have been developed from the red jungle fowl
hair grass;fine-leaved aquatic spike rush. popular as aerator for aquariums
cochineal insect;mexican red scale insect that feeds on cacti. the source of a red dye
shih tzu;a chinese breed of small dog similar to a pekingese
golden fairy lantern;globe lily having open branched clusters of clear yellow egg-shaped flowers. northern california
artillery plant;tropical american stingless nettle that discharges its pollen explosively
coreopsis gigantea;large treelike shrub having feathery leaves and clusters of large yellow flower heads. coastal southern california
cockerel;a young domestic cock. not older than one year
hooker s orchid;a long-spurred orchid with base leaves and petals converging under the upper sepal
water thrush;brownish north american warbler found near streams
booster;the first stage of a multistage rocket
woolly thistle;biennial eurasian white hairy thistle having pale purple flowers. naturalized in north america
lespedeza stipulacea;annual native to korea but widely cultivated for forage and hay in hot dry regions
viper s bugloss;a coarse prickly european weed with spikes of blue flowers. naturalized in united states
dumb cane;a evergreen plant with large showy dark green leaves. contains a poison that swells the tongue and throat hence the name
bergamot;small tree with pear-shaped fruit whose oil is used in perfumery. italy
mountain pine;evergreen tree of new zealand resembling the kawaka
leopard lizard;any of several large lizards with many dark spots. of western united states and northern mexico
cuckoo;any of numerous european and north american birds having pointed wings and a long tail
hirundo pyrrhonota;north american swallow that lives in colonies and builds bottle-shaped mud nests on cliffs and walls
cynthia moth;large asiatic moth introduced into the united states. larvae feed on the ailanthus
goosefish;fishes having large mouths with a wormlike filament attached for luring prey
chinese holly;dense rounded evergreen shrub of china having spiny leaves. widely cultivated as an ornamental
masked shrew;commonest shrew of moist habitats in north america
pocket rat;any of various rodents with cheek pouches
alliaceous plant;bulbous plants having a characteristic pungent onion odor
lion monkey;small south american marmoset with silky fur and long nonprehensile tail
briar;eurasian rose with prickly stems and fragrant leaves and bright pink flowers followed by scarlet hips
fence lizard;spiny lizard often seen basking on fences in the united states and northern mexico
monocarpic plant;a plant that bears fruit once and dies
broad leaved montia;succulent plant with mostly basal leaves. stem bears 1 pair of broadly ovate or heart-shaped leaves and a loose raceme of 3-10 white flowers. western north america
chinquapin;shrubby tree closely related to the allegheny chinkapin but with larger leaves. southern midwest united states
indian rat snake;enter buildings in pursuit of prey
rotifer;minute aquatic multicellular organisms having a ciliated wheel-like organ for feeding and locomotion. constituents of freshwater plankton
sewer rat;brown rat commonly found in sewers
moehringia mucosa;loosely matted plant with mosslike foliage studded with tiny starry 4-petaled white blossoms. mountains of central and southern europe
anaphalis margaritacea;american everlasting having foliage with soft wooly hairs and corymbose heads with pearly white bracts
sand tiger;shallow-water shark with sharp jagged teeth found on both sides of atlantic. sometimes dangerous to swimmers
potato vine;copiously branched vine of brazil having deciduous leaves and white flowers tinged with blue
green alder;shrub of mountainous areas of europe
chrysemys picta;freshwater turtles having bright yellow and red markings. common in the eastern united states
mescal bean;shrub or small tree having pinnate leaves poisonous to livestock and dense racemes of intensely fragrant blue flowers and red beans
agastache foeniculum;much-branched north american herb with an odor like fennel
button mangrove;evergreen tree or shrub with fruit resembling buttons and yielding heavy hard compact wood
oenothera macrocarpa;evening-opening primrose of south central united states
hinny;sterile offspring of a male horse and a female donkey or ass
ergot;a fungus that infects various cereal plants forming compact black masses of branching filaments that replace many grains of the plant. source of medicinally important alkaloids and of lysergic acid
wild winterpea;week-stemmed winter annual native to mediterranean region for long established in southern united states. cultivated as a cover and pasture crop
agrimonia;a plant of the genus agrimony having spikelike clusters of small yellow flowers
snout beetle;small weevil having a prolonged snout. destructive to e.g. grains and nuts
european sole;highly valued as food
styrax obassia;small tree native to japan
merle;common black european thrush
golden ironweed;perennial herb with showy yellow flowers. the eastern united states
quern;a primitive stone mill for grinding corn by hand
rattlesnake master;coarse prickly perennial eryngo of united states thought to cure rattlesnake bite
rhus aromatica;sweet-scented sumac of eastern america having ternate leaves and yellowish-green flowers in spikes resembling catkins followed by red hairy fruits
pedioecetes phasianellus;large grouse of prairies and open forests of western north america
common four o clock;common garden plant of north america having fragrant red or purple or yellow or white flowers that open in late afternoon
firebug;a true bug: brightly colored bug that can exude a stain
crocodilian reptile;extant archosaurian reptile
crataegus oxycantha;thorny eurasian shrub of small tree having dense clusters of white to scarlet flowers followed by deep red berries. established as an escape in eastern north america
eragrostic abyssinica;an african grass economically important as a cereal grass (yielding white flower of good quality) as well as for forage and hay
honey bell;african shrub having decumbent stems and slender yellow honey-scented flowers either solitary or in pairs
yellow granadilla;west indian passionflower. cultivated for its yellow edible fruit
sitotroga cerealella;small moth whose larvae feed on kernels of stored grains
stoat;the ermine in its brown summer coat with black-tipped tail
gordon setter;a scottish breed with a black-and-tan coat
dwarf russian almond;asiatic shrub cultivated for its rosy red flowers
garden angelica;a biennial cultivated herb. its stems are candied and eaten and its roots are used medicinally
bay myrtle;evergreen aromatic shrubby tree of southeastern united states having small hard berries thickly coated with white wax used for candles
yellowtail;game fish of s california and mexico having a yellow tail fin
afrocarpus falcata;medium-sized tree of south africa
chinese rhubarb;long used for laxative properties
sweet violet;european violet typically having purple to white flowers. widely naturalized
soft shelled crab;edible crab that has recently molted and not yet formed its new shell
brown bullhead;freshwater catfish of eastern united states
amorphophallus paeonifolius;putrid-smelling aroid of southeastern asia (especially the philippines) grown for its edible tuber
chive;perennial having hollow cylindrical leaves used for seasoning
beach pancake;plant having hemispherical heads of wine-red flowers. found in coastal dunes from california to mexico
collard;variety of kale having smooth leaves
indian hemp;canadian dogbane yielding a tough fiber used as cordage by native americans. used in folk medicine for pain or inflammation in joints
jelly fungus;any fungus of the order tremellales or auriculariales whose fruiting body is jellylike in consistency when fresh
chloris truncata;perennial australian grass having numerous long spikes arranged like the vanes of a windmill
marco polo sheep;asiatic wild sheep with exceptionally large horns. sometimes considered a variety of the argali (or ovis ammon)
armed bullhead;north atlantic sea poacher
trillium recurvatum;trillium of central united states having dark purple sessile flowers
urosaurus ornatus;a climbing lizard of western united states and northern mexico
fagus pendula;variety of european beech with pendulous limbs
kaffir cat;widely distributed wildcat of africa and asia minor
nonflowering plant;plants having vascular tissue and reproducing by spores
carpenteria;california evergreen shrub having glossy opposite leaves and terminal clusters of a few fragrant white flowers
foumart;dark brown mustelid of woodlands of eurasia that gives off an unpleasant odor when threatened
prunus capuli;mexican black cherry tree having edible fruit
dolichos lablab;perennial twining vine of old world tropics having trifoliate leaves and racemes of fragrant purple pealike flowers followed by maroon pods of edible seeds. grown as an ornamental and as a vegetable on the indian subcontinent. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
woolly bear moth;larva of moth of the family arctiidae
frijolito;shrub or small tree having pinnate leaves poisonous to livestock and dense racemes of intensely fragrant blue flowers and red beans
honeybells;african shrub having decumbent stems and slender yellow honey-scented flowers either solitary or in pairs
hard shell crab;edible crab that has not recently molted and so has a hard shell
covered smut;a smut fungus causing a smut disease of grains in which the spore masses are covered or held together by the grain membranes
sivapithecus;fossil primates found in india
chloroxylon swietenia;east indian tree with valuable hard lustrous yellowish wood.
holocentrus coruscus;on reefs from bermuda and florida to northern south america
canella alba;large evergreen shrub or small tree having white aromatic bark and leathery leaves and small purple to red flowers in terminal cymes
amabilis fir;medium to tall fir of western north america having a conic crown and branches in tiers. leaves smell of orange when crushed
viminaria denudata;australian leafless shrub resembling broom and having small yellow flowers
wormseed;rank-smelling tropical american pigweed
white hellebore;north american plant having large leaves and yellowish green flowers growing in racemes. yields a toxic alkaloid used medicinally
ruffed grouse;valued as a game bird in eastern united states and canada
true guava;small tropical american shrubby tree. widely cultivated in warm regions for its sweet globular yellow fruit
fringe bush;small bushy tree of southeastern united states having profuse clusters of white flowers
inachis io;european butterfly having reddish-brown wings each marked with a purple eyespot
american dewberry;of eastern north america
wild hop;bryony having fleshy roots pale green flowers and very small red berries. europe. north africa. western asia
prickly poppy;annual old world poppy with orange-red flowers and bristly fruit
betula cordifolia;small american birch with peeling white bark often worked into e.g. baskets or toy canoes
toadshade;trillium of northeastern united states with sessile leaves and red or purple flowers having a pungent odor
dasyurus quoll;a variety of dasyure
blue pikeperch;variety inhabiting the great lakes
fritillaria lanceolata;herb of northwestern america having green-and-purple bell-shaped flowers
western pasqueflower;of western north america
meadow pipit;a common pipit that is brown above and white below. widely distributed in northern and central europe and in asia
vegetable oyster;mediterranean biennial herb with long-stemmed heads of purple ray flowers and milky sap and long edible root. naturalized throughout united states
bald eagle;large north american eagle having a white head and dark wings and body
eptatretus;a fossil hagfish of the genus eptatretus
pteridium aquilinum;large coarse fern often several feet high. essentially weed ferns. cosmopolitan
common jasmine;tall-climbing deciduous shrub with fragrant white or yellow or red flowers used in perfume and to flavor tea
neurotrichus gibbsii;grayish-black shrew mole of the united states and canada
fraxinus oregona;timber tree of western north america yielding hard light wood. closely related to the red ash
bitternut;hickory of the eastern united states having a leaves with 7 or 9 leaflets and thin-shelled very bitter nuts
shaddock;southeastern asian tree producing large fruits resembling grapefruits
silver pine;tall pine of western north america with stout blue-green needles. bark is gray-brown with rectangular plates when mature
foxtail grass;grasses of the genera alopecurus and setaria having dense silky or bristly brushlike flowering spikes
mamba;arboreal snake of central and southern africa whose bite is often fatal
brahmin;any of several breeds of indian cattle especially a large american heat- and tick-resistant grayish humped breed evolved in the gulf states by interbreeding indian cattle and now used chiefly for crossbreeding
lychnis flos cuculi;common perennial native to europe and western asia having usually pink flowers with ragged petals
chinese privet;erect evergreen treelike shrub of china and korea and japan having acuminate leaves and flowers in long erect panicles. resembles japanese privet
gasteromycete;any fungus of the class gasteromycetes
hypericum gentianoides;annual wiry-stemmed north american weed with minute scalelike leaves and small yellow flowers
lincoln;long-wooled mutton sheep originally from lincolnshire
bombycilla cedrorun;widely distributed over temperate north america
apocynum androsaemifolium;north american perennial having pinkish flowers in loose cymes. used in folk medicine for pain or inflammation in joints
perennial;a plant lasting for three seasons or more
asperula odorata;old world fragrant stoloniferous perennial having small white flowers and narrow leaves used as flavoring and in sachets. widely cultivated as a ground cover. in some classifications placed in genus asperula
leather fern;widely distributed fern of tropical southern hemisphere having leathery pinnatifid fronds
mountain cranberry;low evergreen shrub of high north temperate regions of europe and asia and america bearing red edible berries
batis maritima;low-growing strong-smelling coastal shrub of warm parts of the new world having unisexual flowers in conelike spikes and thick succulent leaves
gramma;pasture grass of plains of south america and western north america
cardamine bulbifera;european bittercress having a knotted white rootstock
sium suave;stout white-flowered perennial found wild in shallow fresh water. northern united states and asia
ginkgo biloba;deciduous dioecious chinese tree having fan-shaped leaves and fleshy yellow seeds. exists almost exclusively in cultivation especially as an ornamental street tree
wild licorice;european perennial
wilson s thrush;tawny brown north american thrush noted for its song
hoot owl;any owl that hoots as distinct from screeching
buttercup;any of various plants of the genus ranunculus
anemone ludoviciana;short hairy perennial with early spring blue-violet or lilac flowers. north america and siberia
chelifer cancroides;minute arachnid sometimes found in old papers
pterocnemia pennata;smaller of two tall fast-running flightless birds similar to ostriches but three-toed. found from peru to straits of magellan
european house cricket;lives in human dwellings. naturalized in parts of america
angora;raised for its long silky hair which is the true mohair
sprat;small herring processed like a sardine
rhincodon typus;large spotted shark of warm surface waters worldwide. resembles a whale and feeds chiefly on plankton
american crab apple;medium-sized tree of the eastern united states having pink blossoms and small yellow fruit
myrtle beech;large evergreen tree of tasmania
summer cohosh;bugbane of the eastern united states having erect racemes of white flowers
dark horse;a racehorse about which little is known
ling;american hakes
leucocytozoon;parasitic in birds
powder post termite;extremely destructive dry-wood termite of warm regions
field brome;annual grass of europe and temperate asia
deer s ear;any of various tall perennial herbs constituting the genus frasera. widely distributed in warm dry upland areas of the united states pacific states
shoe black;large showy asiatic shrub or small tree having large single or double red to deep-red flowers
falco sparverius;small north american falcon
spanish lime;tropical american tree bearing a small edible fruit with green leathery skin and sweet juicy translucent pulp
anadenanthera colubrina;brazilian shrub having twice-pinnate leaves and small spicate flowers followed by flat or irregularly torulose pods. sometimes placed in genus piptadenia
corydalis sempervirens;glaucous herb of northeastern united states and canada having loose racemes of yellow-tipped pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus fumaria
cichorium intybus;perennial old world herb having rayed flower heads with blue florets cultivated for its root and its heads of crisp edible leaves used in salads
rhamnus croceus;small spiny evergreen shrub of western united states and mexico with minute flowers and bright red berries
castanopsis chrysophylla;small ornamental evergreen tree of pacific coast whose glossy yellow-green leaves are yellow beneath. bears edible nuts
lemmus lemmus;notable for mass migrations even into the sea where many drown
stevia;any plant of the genus piqueria or the closely related genus stevia
ceylon bowstring hemp;plant having thick fibrous leaves transversely banded in light and dark green
ornithopod;bipedal herbivorous dinosaur
surinam cherry;tropical american shrub bearing edible acid red fruit resembling cherries
pewit;small black-headed european gull
chrysanthemum;any of numerous perennial old world herbs having showy brightly colored flower heads of the genera chrysanthemum. argyranthemum. dendranthema. tanacetum. widely cultivated
corchorus;any of various plants of the genus corchorus having large leaves and cymose clusters of yellow flowers. a source of jute
saltbush;any of various shrubby plants of the genus atriplex that thrive in dry alkaline soil
canada plum;small tree native to northeastern north america having oblong orange-red fruit
clintonia uniflora;plant with 1 or 2 white starlike flowers on short leafless stalks. alaska to california and east to oregon and montana
genet;agile old world viverrine having a spotted coat and long ringed tail
clementine tree;a variety of mandarin orange
biscutalla laevigata;plant of southeastern europe having yellow flowers like those of mustard and pods with open valves resembling bucklers
krigia dandelion;small yellow-flowered herb resembling dandelions of central and southeastern united states
california sycamore;tall tree of baja california having deciduous bark and large alternate palmately lobed leaves and ball-like clusters of flowers
nut tree;tree bearing edible nuts
woolly sunflower;any plant of the genus eriophyllum
cephalopterus ornatus;black tropical american bird having a large overhanging crest and long feathered wattle
cochlearius cochlearius;tropical american heron related to night herons
bayberry;west indian tree. source of bay rum
eucaryote;an organism with cells characteristic of all life forms except primitive microorganisms such as bacteria. i.e. an organism with 'good' or membrane-bound nuclei in its cells
moorhen;female red grouse
elecampane;tall coarse eurasian herb having daisylike yellow flowers with narrow petals whose rhizomatous roots are used medicinally
fragrant wood fern;fern or northern eurasia and north america having fragrant fronds
crotalaria;any of various plants of the genus crotalaria having inflated pods within which the seeds rattle. used for pasture and green-manure crops
zigadenus nuttalli;a common perennial death camas. tennessee to kansas to texas
chipmunk;chipmunk of western america and asia
viola arvensis;common old world viola with creamy often violet-tinged flowers
pinfish;similar to sea bream. small spiny-finned fish found in bays along the southeastern coast of the united states
gyromitra;any fungus of the genus gyromitra
scarabaeus;scarabaeid beetle considered divine by ancient egyptians
red squirrel;common reddish-brown squirrel of europe and parts of asia
anchusa;any of various old world herbs of the genus anchusa having one-sided clusters of trumpet-shaped flowers
lombardy poplar;distinguished by its columnar fastigiate shape and erect branches
ragweed;widespread european weed having yellow daisylike flowers. sometimes an obnoxious weed and toxic to cattle if consumed in quantity
quercus garryana;small deciduous tree of western north america with crooked branches and pale gray bark
oilbird;nocturnal fruit-eating bird of south america that has fatty young yielding an oil that is used instead of butter
scomber scombrus;important food fish of the north atlantic and mediterranean. its body is greenish-blue with dark bars and small if any scales
hydnocarpus kurzii;east indian tree with oily seeds yield chaulmoogra oil used to treat leprosy
machaeranthera bigelovii;wild aster having leafy stems and flower heads with narrow bright reddish-lavender or purple rays. western colorado to arizona
blue orchid;famous orchid of northern india having large pale to deep lilac-blue flowers
rattlesnake plantain;any of several small temperate and tropical orchids having mottled or striped leaves and spikes of small yellowish-white flowers in a twisted raceme
nageia nagi;medium-sized tree having glossy lanceolate leaves. southern china to taiwan and southern japan
setting hen;a domestic hen ready to brood
new zealand beech;any of several tall new zealand trees of the genus nothofagus. some yield useful timber
jerboa rat;large australian rat with hind legs adapted for leaping
zigadenus glaucus;plant of eastern and central north america having creamy white flowers tinged with brown or purple. poisonous especially to grazing animals
ostrea gigas;large native of japan introduced along united states pacific coast. candidate for introduction in chesapeake bay
cachalot;large whale with a large cavity in the head containing spermaceti and oil. also a source of ambergris
prairie aster;violet-flowered perennial aster of central united states having solitary heads
moschus moschiferus;small heavy-limbed upland deer of central asia. male secretes valued musk
swamp honeysuckle;shrub growing in swamps throughout the eastern united states and having small white to pinkish honeysucklelike flowers
cinnabar chanterelle;mushroom with a distinctive pink to vermillion fruiting body
douglas spruce;lofty douglas fir of northwestern north america having short needles and egg-shaped cones
idria columnaris;candlewood of mexico and southwestern california having tall columnar stems and bearing honey-scented creamy yellow flowers
pearlfish;found living within the alimentary canals of e.g. sea cucumbers or between the shells of pearl oysters in or near shallow seagrass beds
winged spindle tree;bushy deciduous shrub with branches having thin wide corky longitudinal wings. brilliant red in autumn. northeastern asia to central china
american mistletoe;the traditional mistletoe of christmas in america: grows on deciduous trees and can severely weaken the host plant
cupflower;mexican evergreen climbing plant having large solitary funnel-shaped fragrant yellow flowers with purple-brown ridges in the throat
martagon;lily with small dull purple flowers of northwestern europe and ny asia
deciduous plant;a plant having foliage that is shed annually at the end of the growing season
hazel alder;common shrub of the eastern united states with smooth bark
anas americana;american widgeon the male of which has a white crown
stock;any of several old world plants cultivated for their brightly colored flowers
hart s tongue;tropical american terrestrial fern with leathery lanceolate fronds. sometimes placed in genus polybotrya
veratrum viride;north american plant having large leaves and yellowish green flowers growing in racemes. yields a toxic alkaloid used medicinally
bank martin;swallow of the northern hemisphere that nests in tunnels dug in clay or sand banks
lysimachia nemorum;trailing european evergreen with yellow flowers
jabiru;large white stork of warm regions of the world esp. america
tornillo;shrub or small tree of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico having spirally twisted pods
sphecoid wasp;any of various solitary wasps
prunus amygdalus;small bushy deciduous tree native to asia and north africa having pretty pink blossoms and highly prized edible nuts enclosed in a hard green hull. cultivated in southern australia and california
plankton;the aggregate of small plant and animal organisms that float or drift in great numbers in fresh or salt water
quercus phellos;medium to large deciduous oak of the eastern united states having long lanceolate leaves and soft strong wood
may;thorny eurasian shrub of small tree having dense clusters of white to scarlet flowers followed by deep red berries. established as an escape in eastern north america
painted greenling;greenling with whitish body marked with black bands
crake;any of several short-billed old world rails
elymus hispidus;asiatic grass introduced into united states rangelands for pasture and fodder
sand devil s claw;alternatively placed in genus martynia
gelsemium sempervirens;poisonous woody evergreen vine of southeastern united states having fragrant yellow funnel-shaped flowers
sowbread;common wild european cyclamen with pink flowers
puffin;any of two genera of northern seabirds having short necks and brightly colored compressed bills
woodborer;any of various insects or larvae or mollusks that bore into wood
agrostemma githago;european annual having large trumpet-shaped reddish-purple flowers and poisonous seed. a common weed in grainfields and beside roadways. naturalized in america
tsuga canadensis;common forest tree of the eastern united states and canada. used especially for pulpwood
olea lanceolata;small new zealand tree having red pulpy one-seeded fruit
albatrellus ovinus;a fungus with a whitish often circular cap and a white pore surface and small pores and a white central stalk. found under conifers. edible but not popular
magnolia macrophylla;large deciduous shrub or tree of southeastern united states having huge leaves in dense false whorls and large creamy flowers tinged purple toward the base
chinese chive;eastern asian plant. larger than allium_schoenoprasum
japanese leek;asiatic onion with slender bulbs. used as early green onions
japanese chestnut;spreading short-trunked tree of japan
vernal iris;low-growing spring-flowering american iris with bright blue-lilac flowers
molucella laevis;aromatic annual with a tall stems of small whitish flowers enclosed in a greatly enlarged saucer- or bell-shaped calyx
two wing flying fish;having only pectoral fins enlarged
giant foxtail;two species of coarse annual foxtails that are naturalized weeds in united states
red oak;any of numerous american oaks having 4 stamens in each floret, acorns requiring two years to mature and leaf veins usually extending beyond the leaf margin to form points or bristles
wild tamarind;common thorny tropical american tree having terminal racemes of yellow flowers followed by sickle-shaped or circinate edible pods and yielding good timber and a yellow dye and mucilaginous gum
salix blanda;hybrid willow usually not strongly weeping in habit
sour gourd;australian tree having an agreeably acid gourd-like fruit
strawberry saxifrage;eastern asiatic saxifrage with racemes of small red-and-white flowers. spreads by numerous creeping stolons
carob;evergreen mediterranean tree with edible pods. the biblical carob
angiopteris evecta;highly variable species of very large primitive ferns of the pacific tropical areas with high rainfall
carp;any of various freshwater fish of the family_cyprinidae
witch elm;eurasian elm often planted as a shade tree
weevil;any of several families of mostly small beetles that feed on plants and plant products. esp. snout weevils and seed weevils
schlumbergera truncatus;south american jointed cactus with usually red flowers. often cultivated as a houseplant. sometimes classified as genus schlumbergera
water buffalo;asiatic buffalo often domesticated for use as a draft animal
merozoite;a cell that arises from the asexual division of a parent sporozoan during its life cycle
cannabis sativa;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
pacific tree toad;most commonly heard frog on the pacific coast of america
monstrosity;a person or animal that is markedly unusual or deformed
ring necked snake;any of numerous small nonvenomous north american snakes with a yellow or orange ring around the neck
african monitor;destroys crocodile eggs
porkfish;black and gold grunt found from bermuda to caribbean to brazil
gunnel;small eellike fishes common in shallow waters of the north atlantic
talinum calycinum;pink-flowered perennial of rocky regions of western united states
crown imperial;eurasian herb with a cluster of leaves and orange-red bell-shaped flowers at the top of the stem
abies amabilis;medium to tall fir of western north america having a conic crown and branches in tiers. leaves smell of orange when crushed
skua;gull-like jaeger of northern seas
mistletoe cactus;a plant of the genus rhipsalis
whortleberry;erect european blueberry having solitary flowers and blue-black berries
dwarf nipplewort;small european herb with small yellow flowers
purple fringed orchis;north american orchid similar to habenaria psycodes with larger paler flowers
sledge dog;a dog trained to draw a sled usually in a team
jamaica honeysuckle;west indian passionflower. cultivated for its yellow edible fruit
turdus philomelos;common old world thrush noted for its song
yellow ageratum;shrub of southwestern mediterranean region having yellow daisylike flowers
wild spurge;common perennial united states spurge having showy white petallike bracts
whitetail;common north american deer. tail has a white underside
acocanthera oblongifolia;medium-sized shrubby tree of south africa having thick leathery evergreen leaves and white or pink flowers and globose usually two-seeded purplish black fruits
satin flower;southeastern european plant cultivated for its fragrant purplish flowers and round flat papery silver-white seedpods that are used for indoor decoration
hortensia;deciduous shrub bearing round-headed flower clusters opening green and aging to pink or blue
sayornis phoebe;small dun-colored north american flycatcher
game fowl;any of several breeds reared for cock-fighting
rough pea;week-stemmed winter annual native to mediterranean region for long established in southern united states. cultivated as a cover and pasture crop
sycamore;eurasian maple tree with pale gray bark that peels in flakes like that of a sycamore tree. leaves with five ovate lobes yellow in autumn
portia tree;pantropical tree of usually seacoasts sometimes cultivated as an ornamental for its rounded heart-shaped leaves and showy yellow and purple flowers. yields valuable pink to dark red close-grained wood and oil from its seeds
dioscorea elephantipes;south african vine having a massive rootstock covered with deeply fissured bark
filly;a young female horse under the age of four
black guillemot;north atlantic guillemot
echinochloa crusgalli;a coarse annual panic grass. a cosmopolitan weed. occasionally used for hay or grazing
allamanda;a plant of the genus allamanda having large showy funnel-shaped flowers in terminal cymes
topi;large south african antelope. considered the swiftest hoofed mammal
whooper swan;common old world swan noted for its whooping call
laelia;any of various spectacular plants of the genus laelia having showy flowers in many colors
milk vetch;any of various plants of the genus astragalus
drone;stingless male bee in a colony of social bees (esp. honeybees) whose sole function is to mate with the queen
poecilocapsus lineatus;yellow or orange leaf bug with four black stripes down the back. widespread in central and eastern north america
webbing moth;moth that forms a web in which it lives
european nuthatch;a kind of nuthatch
automobile engine;the engine that propels an automobile
edentate;primitive terrestrial mammal with few if any teeth. of tropical central and south america
scrub fowl;large-footed short-winged birds of australasia. build mounds of decaying vegetation to incubate eggs
wood laurel;a north american evergreen shrub having glossy leaves and white or rose-colored flowers
opossum shrimp;shrimp-like crustaceans whose females carry eggs and young in a pouch between the legs
african yellowwood;south african tree or shrub having a rounded crown
tobacco budworm;larva of a noctuid moth. highly destructive to esp. corn and cotton and tomato crops
nimblewill;slender branching american grass of some value for grazing in central united states
eustoma grandiflorum;one of the most handsome prairie wildflowers laving large erect bell-shaped bluish flowers. of moist places in prairies and fields from eastern colorado and nebraska south to new mexico and texas
creeping oxalis;creeping much-branched mat-forming weed. cosmopolitan
citrus nobilis;large citrus tree having large sweet deep orange fruit that is easily peeled. widely cultivated in florida
shetland sheepdog;small sheepdog developed in the shetland islands and resembling a collie
yellow oak;medium to large deciduous timber tree of the eastern united states and southeastern canada having dark outer bark and yellow inner bark used for tanning. broad 5-lobed leaves are bristle-tipped
bursera microphylla;small spicy-odored tree or shrub of southwestern united states having odd-pinnate leaves and small clusters of white flowers
winter sweet;medium-sized shrubby tree of south africa having thick leathery evergreen leaves and white or pink flowers and globose usually two-seeded purplish black fruits
mascot;a person or animal that is adopted by a team or other group as a symbolic figure
class merostomata;used in some classifications. includes the orders xiphosura and eurypterida
malacosoma disstria;moth whose gregarious larvae spin carpets
sweet wattle;tropical american thorny shrub or small tree. fragrant yellow flowers used in making perfumery
gopher turtle;burrowing edible land tortoise of southeastern north america
alligator;either of two amphibious reptiles with shorter broader snouts than crocodiles
eastern fox squirrel;exceptionally large arboreal squirrel of eastern united states
egger;moth having nonfunctional mouthparts as adults. larvae feed on tree foliage and spin egg-shaped cocoons
viola ocellata;violet of pacific coast of north america having white petals tinged with yellow and deep violet
survivor;an animal that survives in spite of adversity. 'only the fittest animals were survivors of the cold winters'
lesser scaup duck;common scaup of north america. males have purplish heads
coralbells;perennial plant of the western united states having bright red flowers in feathery spikes. used as an ornamental
escape;a plant originally cultivated but now growing wild
spanish cedar;tropical american tree yielding fragrant wood used especially for boxes
linden;any of various deciduous trees of the genus tilia heart-shaped leaves and drooping cymose clusters of yellowish often fragrant flowers. several yield valuable timber
alumroot;any of several herbs of the genus heuchera
black pine;large 2-needled timber pine of southeastern europe
hearing dog;dog trained to assist the deaf by signaling the occurrence of certain sounds
betula alleghaniensis;tree of eastern north america with thin lustrous yellow or gray bark
rum cherry;large north american wild cherry with round black sour edible fruit
thunder snake;small reddish wormlike snake of eastern united states
mangold;beet with a large yellowish root. grown chiefly as cattle feed
gentianella;low-growing alpine plant cultivated for its dark glossy green leaves in basal rosettes and showy solitary bell-shaped blue flowers
venetian sumac;old world shrub having large plumes of yellowish feathery flowers resembling puffs of smoke
dipterous insect;insects having usually a single pair of functional wings (anterior pair) with the posterior pair reduced to small knobbed structures and mouth parts adapted for sucking or lapping or piercing
coon cat;omnivorous mammal of central and south america
ayrshire;hardy breed from ayr scotland
fairy cup;a scarlet european fungus with cup-shaped ascocarp
narrow leaf cattail;reed maces of america, europe, north africa, asia
haricot;variety of french bean plant bearing light-colored beans that are usually dried
acridotheres tristis;dark brown crested bird of southeastern asia
goliath frog;largest living frog. up to a foot and weighing up to 10 lbs. africa
crown beard;any plant of the genus verbesina having clustered white or yellow flower heads
symplocus tinctoria;small yellowwood tree of southern united states having small fragrant white flowers. leaves and bark yield a yellow dye
royal osmund;large deeply rooted fern of worldwide distribution with upright bipinnate compound tufted fronds
fuji cherry;shrubby japanese tree having pale pink blossoms
cephalopod mollusk;marine mollusk characterized by well-developed head and eyes and sucker-bearing tentacles
stinking cedar;rare small evergreen of northern florida. its glossy green leaves have an unpleasant fetid smell when crushed
brush kangaroo;any of various small or medium-sized kangaroos often brightly colored
synaptomys borealis;of wet alpine and subalpine meadows of canada and alaska
silurid fish;old world freshwater catfishes having naked skin and a long anal fin more or less merged with the eellike caudal fin
brittle maidenhair;tropical american fern with broad pinnae. widely cultivated
kinkajou;a kind of lemur
caricature plant;tropical old world shrub having purple or red tubular flowers and leaf markings resembling the profile of a human face
boykinia elata;plant with leaves mostly at the base and openly branched clusters of small white flowers. western north america
sorbus aucuparia;eurasian tree with orange-red berrylike fruits
crotalus cerastes;small pale-colored desert rattlesnake of southwestern united states. body moves in an s-shaped curve
european brown bat;common european brown bat
pagoda tree;frangipani of india having an erect habit and conical form. grown in temple gardens
arctic poppy;subarctic perennial poppy of both hemispheres having fragrant white or yellow to orange or peach flowers
oyster agaric;edible agaric with a soft grayish cap growing in shelving masses on dead wood
wood ant;reddish-brown european ant typically living in anthills in woodlands
magicicada septendecim;north american cicada. appears in great numbers at infrequent intervals because the nymphs take 13' to 17' years to mature
mullein pink;an old cottage garden plant of southeastern europe widely cultivated for its attractive white woolly foliage and showy crimson flowers
eugenia caryophyllatum;moderate sized very symmetrical red-flowered evergreen widely cultivated in the tropics for its flower buds which are source of cloves
silverbush;silvery hairy european shrub with evergreen foliage and pale yellow flowers
whorled aster;north american perennial with apparently whorled leaves and showy white purple-tinged flowers
marmoset;small soft-furred south and central american monkey with claws instead of nails
martynia arenaria;alternatively placed in genus martynia
ardisia escallonoides;tropical american shrub or small tree with brown wood and dark berries
chittimwood;deciduous tree of southeastern united states and mexico
common mosquito;common house mosquito
horned lizard;insectivorous lizard with hornlike spines on the head and spiny scales on the body. of western north america
jumby bean;small tree of west indies and northeastern venezuela having large oblong slender-pointed leaflets and panicles of purple flowers. seeds are black or scarlet with black spots
dwarf tulip;small early-blooming tulip
individual;a single organism
poeciliid fish;small usually brightly-colored viviparous surface-feeding fishes of fresh or brackish warm waters. often used in mosquito control
tench;freshwater dace-like game fish of europe and western asia noted for ability to survive outside water
tall oat grass;coarse perennial eurasian oatlike grass found on roadside verges and rough grassland and in hay meadows. introduced in north america for forage
poison oak;climbing plant common in eastern and central united states with ternate leaves and greenish flowers followed by white berries. yields an irritating oil that causes a rash on contact
diodora apertura;marine limpet having a conical shell with an opening at the apex
equus asinus;a wild ass of africa
budorcas taxicolor;large heavily built goat antelope of eastern himalayan area
low st andrew s cross;low shrubby plant having yellow flowers with four petals arranged in a cross. bermuda and southeastern united states to west indies and eastern mexico
calathian violet;perennial eurasian gentian with sky-blue funnel-shaped flowers of damp open heaths
heart pea;woody perennial climbing plant with large ornamental seed pods that resemble balloons. tropical india and africa and america
mynah;tropical asian starlings
plasmodiophora brassicae;slime-mold-like fungus causing swellings or distortions of the roots of cabbages and related plants
golden crown beard;coarse grayish green annual yellow-flowered herb. southwestern united states to mexico
sturgeon;large primitive fishes valued for their flesh and roe. widely distributed in north temperate zone
limnocryptes minima;a small short-billed old world snipe
merino;white sheep originating in spain and producing a heavy fleece of exceptional quality
symphalangus syndactylus;large black gibbon of sumatra having the 2nd and 3rd toes partially united by a web
monster;a person or animal that is markedly unusual or deformed
water fern;ferns that grow in water
honeybee;social bee often domesticated for the honey it produces
pulsatilla patens;short hairy perennial with early spring blue-violet or lilac flowers. north america and siberia
river otter;sociable aquatic animal widely distributed along streams and lake borders in north america
english walnut tree;eurasian walnut valued for its large edible nut and its hard richly figured wood. widely cultivated
tagetes patula;strong-scented bushy annual with orange or yellow flower heads marked with red. mexico and guatemala
boletus pallidus;a fungus that has an off-white cap when it is young but later becomes dingy brown and a stalk of the same color. the under surface of the cap (the tubes) a pale greenish yellow
pennistum villosum;northeastern tropical african plant having feathery panicles
nuttall oak;similar to the pin oak. grows in damp sites in mississippi river basin
naboom;small tree of dry open parts of southern africa having erect angled branches suggesting candelabra
tremella reticulata;a jelly fungus with an erect whitish fruiting body and a highly variable shape (sometimes resembling coral fungi)
ammotragus lervia;wild sheep of northern africa
periplaneta australasiae;widely distributed in warm countries
bucephela clangula;large-headed swift-flying diving duck of arctic regions
glis glis;large european dormouse
orange sneezeweed;stout perennial herb of western united states having flower heads with drooping orange-yellow rays. causes spewing sickness in sheep
youth on age;vigorous perennial herb with flowers in erect racemes and having young plants develop at the junction of a leaf blade and the leafstalk
placoderm;fishlike vertebrate with bony plates on head and upper body. dominant in seas and rivers during the devonian. considered the earliest vertebrate with jaws
purple fringeless orchis;orchid of northeastern and alpine eastern north america closely related to the purple fringed orchids but having rosy-purple or violet flowers with denticulate leaf divisions
varanus komodoensis;the largest lizard in the world (10 feet). found on indonesian islands
hornbeam;any of several trees or shrubs of the genus carpinus
stone bass;brown fish of the atlantic and mediterranean found around rocks and shipwrecks
leather flower;scandent subshrub of southeastern united states having large red-purple bell-shaped flowers with leathery recurved sepals
needlefish;elongate european surface-dwelling predacious fishes with long toothed jaws. abundant in coastal waters
sagittarius serpentarius;large long-legged african bird of prey that feeds on reptiles
oka;south american wood sorrel cultivated for its edible tubers
beluga;small northern whale that is white when adult
rough leaved aster;a variety of aster
trifid beggar ticks;of temperate eurasia
summer cypress;densely branched eurasian plant. foliage turns purple-red in autumn
munjeet;perennial east indian creeping or climbing herb used for dye in the orient
flannel leaf;any of various plants of the genus verbascum having large usually woolly leaves and terminal spikes of yellow or white or purplish flowers
chelone glabra;showy perennial of marshlands of eastern and central north america having waxy lanceolate leaves and flower with lower part creamy white and upper parts pale pink to deep purple
viola blanda;short-stemmed violet of eastern north america having fragrant purple-veined white flowers
salvia;any of various plants of the genus salvia. cosmopolitan
serpent star;an animal resembling a starfish with fragile whiplike arms radiating from a small central disc
peccari angulatus;dark gray peccary with an indistinct white collar. of semi desert areas of mexico and southwestern united states
macaw;long-tailed brilliantly colored parrot of central and south america. among the largest and showiest of parrots
bridal wreath;shrub having copious small white flowers in spring
euopean hoopoe;pinkish-brown hoopoe with black-and-white wings
bufo;any toad of the genus bufo
rape;eurasian plant cultivated for its seed and as a forage crop
lycaena hypophlaeas;common copper butterfly of central and eastern north america
tern;small slender gull having narrow wings and a forked tail
long horned grasshopper;grasshoppers with long threadlike antennae and well-developed stridulating organs on the forewings of the male
cedar tree;any cedar of the genus cedrus
cuscuta gronovii;leafless parasitic vine with dense clusters of small white bell-shaped flowers on orange-yellow stems that twine around clover or flax
camberwell beauty;of temperate regions. having dark purple wings with yellow borders
dioscorea batata;hardy chinese vine naturalized in united states and cultivated as an ornamental climber for its glossy heart-shaped cinnamon-scented leaves and in the tropics for its edible tubers
bird s foot fern;cliff brake of california and baja california having purple-brown leafstalks
pepper mill;a mill for grinding pepper
night raven;any bird that cries at night
field garlic;pungent old world wild onion
european hop;european twining plant whose flowers are used chiefly to flavor malt liquors. cultivated in america
fabiana imbricata;peruvian shrub with small pink to lavender tubular flowers. leaves yield a tonic and diuretic
cosmos;any of various mostly mexican herbs of the genus cosmos having radiate heads of variously colored flowers and pinnate leaves. popular fall-blooming annuals
combretum appiculatum;small deciduous tree of the transvaal having spikes of yellow flowers
butterflower;any of various plants of the genus ranunculus
english oak;medium to large deciduous european oak having smooth leaves with rounded lobes. yields hard strong light-colored wood
redbrush;common north american shrub with reddish purple twigs and white flowers
archaebacterium;considered ancient life forms that evolved separately from bacteria and blue-green algae
moss campion;tuft- or mat-forming dwarf perennial of arctic regions of western and central europe and north america
sea lavender;any of various plants of the genus limonium of temperate salt marshes having spikes of whit or mauve flowers
mustang mint;fragrant california annual herb having lanceolate leaves and clusters of rose-purple flowers
sciaena antarctica;large important food fish of australia. almost indistinguishable from the maigre
rosemary;widely cultivated for its fragrant gray-green leaves used in cooking and in perfumery
wild cranberry;evergreen mat-forming shrub of north america and northern eurasia having small white flowers and red berries. leaves turn red in autumn
redtail;european songbird with a reddish breast and tail. related to old world robins
english springer spaniel;a breed having typically a black-and-white coat
carabao;water buffalo of the philippines
grias cauliflora;west indian tree bearing edible mangolike fruit
livistona australis;australian palm with leaf buds that are edible when young
veronica agrestis;european plant with minute axillary blue flowers on long stalks. widely naturalized in america
broadbill;diving ducks of north america having a bluish-gray bill
hen;adult female bird
chrysanthemum coronarium spatiosum;grown for its succulent edible leaves used in oriental cooking
magnolia fraseri;small erect deciduous tree with large leaves in whorllike formations at branch tips
pithecanthropus;former genus of primitive apelike men now homo erectus
white fir;medium to tall fir of western north america having a conic crown and branches in tiers. leaves smell of orange when crushed
whinchat;brown-and-buff european songbird of grassy meadows
nonpasserine bird;chiefly arboreal birds especially of the order coraciiformes
zoysia matrella;lawn grass common in the philippines. grown also in united states
hippoglossus stenolepsis;a righteye flounder found in the pacific
clintonia;any temperate liliaceous plant of the genus clintonia having broad basal leaves and white or yellowish or purplish flowers followed by blue or black berries
cornflower;an annual eurasian plant cultivated in north america having showy heads of blue or purple or pink or white flowers
punch press;a power driven press used to shape metal parts
pastor sturnus;glossy black bird with pink back and abdomen. chiefly asian
automatic teller;a machine (outside some banks) that dispenses cash when a personal coded card is used
kelp;large brown seaweeds having fluted leathery fronds
dolichonyx oryzivorus;migratory american songbird
gazelle hound;old breed of tall swift keen-eyed hunting dogs resembling greyhounds. from egypt and southwestern asia
gooseberry bush;spiny eurasian shrub having greenish purple-tinged flowers and ovoid yellow-green or red-purple berries
strekelia formosissima;mexican bulbous herb cultivated for its handsome bright red solitary flower
fertilized egg;an animal organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that in higher forms merge into fetal stages but in lower forms terminate in commencement of larval life
large white petunia;annual herb having large nocturnally fragrant buff-white flowers
buckler mustard;plant of southeastern europe having yellow flowers like those of mustard and pods with open valves resembling bucklers
monodon monoceros;small arctic whale the male having a long spiral ivory tusk
swan;stately heavy-bodied aquatic bird with very long neck and usually white plumage as adult
yellow bristle grass;common weedy and bristly grass found in nearly all temperate areas
kingcup;any of various plants of the genus ranunculus
durio zibethinus;tree of southeastern asia having edible oval fruit with a hard spiny rind
fledgling;young bird that has just fledged or become capable of flying
acipenser transmontanus;food and game fish of marine and fresh waters of northwestern coast of north america
downy woodpecked;small north american woodpecker with black and white plumage and a small bill
water mold;parasitic or saprobic organisms living chiefly in fresh water or moist soil
pisum arvense;variety of pea plant native to the mediterranean region and north africa and widely grown especially for forage
xylomelum pyriforme;tree bearing pear-shaped fruit with a thick woody epicarp
grampus;predatory black-and-white toothed whale with large dorsal fin. common in cold seas
tasman dwarf pine;small shrub or tasmania having short stiff branches
fringed polygala;common trailing perennial milkwort of eastern north america having leaves like wintergreen and usually rosy-purple flowers with winged sepals
ligustrum japonicum;evergreen shrub of japan and korea having small dark leaves and flowers in loose panicles. related to but smaller than chinese privet
winter jasmine;deciduous rambling shrub widely cultivated for its winter-blooming yellow flowers
toxicodendron quercifolium;poisonous shrub of southeastern united states causing a rash on contact
indian currant;north american deciduous shrub cultivated for it abundant clusters of coral-red berrylike fruits
false goatsbeard;north american astilbe with panicles of creamy white flowers
gum plant;any of various western american plants of the genus grindelia having resinous leaves and stems formerly used medicinally. often poisonous to livestock
pseudocolus fusiformis;a stinkhorn of genus pseudocolus. the fruiting body first resembles a small puffball that soon splits open to form a stalk with tapering arms that arch and taper to a common point
sego lily;perennial plant having umbel-like clusters of 1-4 showy white bell-shaped flowers atop erect unbranched stems. edible bulbs useful in times of scarcity. eastern montana and western north dakota south to northern arizona and northwestern new mexico
cortinarius gentilis;a poisonous fungus with a bright yellow brown cap and a long cinnamon colored stalk
bird s eye;old world plant with axillary racemes of blue-and-white flowers
bird footed dinosaur;any of numerous carnivorous dinosaurs of the triassic to cretaceous with short forelimbs that walked or ran on strong hind legs
prunus persica nectarina;variety or mutation of the peach bearing smooth-skinned fruit with usually yellow flesh
mimosa bush;tropical american thorny shrub or small tree. fragrant yellow flowers used in making perfumery
gin;a machine that separates the seeds from raw cotton fibers
braun s holly fern;north american fern whose more or less evergreen leathery fronds are covered with pale brown chafflike scales
salix viminalis;willow with long flexible twigs used in basketry
electronic bulletin board;(computer science) a computer that is running software that allows users to leave messages and access information of general interest
broadbill;small birds of the old world tropics having bright plumage and short wide bills
lepechinia calycina;california plant with woolly stems and leaves and large white flowers
margate;red-mouthed grunt found from florida to brazil
giant reed;large rhizomatous perennial grasses found by riversides and in ditches having jointed stems and large gray-white feathery panicles
christmas begonia;hybrid winter-blooming begonia grown for its many large pink flowers. derived from b dregei and b socotrana
trailing arbutus;low-growing evergreen shrub of eastern north america with leathery leaves and clusters of fragrant pink or white flowers
narrow leaved reedmace;reed maces of america, europe, north africa, asia
grass tree;any of several australian evergreen perennials having short thick woody stems crowned by a tuft of grasslike foliage and yielding acaroid resins
heteromeles arbutifolia;ornamental evergreen treelike shrub of united states pacific coast having large white flowers and red berrylike fruits. often placed in genus photinia
gorilla gorilla beringei;of kivu highlands
clam;burrowing marine mollusk living on sand or mud
ilex cornuta;dense rounded evergreen shrub of china having spiny leaves. widely cultivated as an ornamental
milkcap;edible mushroom
magneto;a small dynamo with a secondary winding that produces a high voltage enabling a spark to jump between the poles of a spark plug in a gasoline engine
webworm;several gregarious moth larvae that spin webs over foliage on which they feed
sarda lineolata;probably a northern strain of chile bonito
pyramid plant;any of various tall perennial herbs constituting the genus frasera. widely distributed in warm dry upland areas of the united states pacific states
sisymbrium officinale;stiffly branching old world annual with pale yellow flowers. widely naturalized in north america. formerly used medicinally
hypentelium nigricans;widely distributed in warm clear shallow streams
flame tree;tropical american thorny shrub or small tree. fragrant yellow flowers used in making perfumery
crepe gardenia;tropical shrub having glossy foliage and fragrant nocturnal flowers with crimped or wavy corollas. northern india to thailand
rosa pendulina;european alpine rose with crimson flowers
marsupial mouse;any of numerous small sharp-nosed insectivorous marsupials superficially resembling mice or rats
kingfish;large game fish of australia and new zealand
ascaphus trui;western north american frog with a tail-like copulatory organ
strix nebulosa;large dish-faced owl of northern north america and western eurasia
gall of the earth;common perennial herb widely distributed in the southern and eastern united states having drooping clusters of pinkish flowers and thick basal leaves suggesting a lion's foot in shape. sometimes placed in genus prenanthes
sassafras laurel;pacific coast tree having aromatic foliage and small umbellate flowers followed by olivelike fruit. yields a hard tough wood
cupressus macrocarpa;tall california cypress endemic on monterey bay. widely used for ornament as well as reforestation and shelterbelt planting
japanese varnish tree;small asiatic tree yielding a toxic exudate from which lacquer is obtained
filago germanica;(literally an undutiful herb) a variety of cotton rose
cycas revoluta;dwarf palmlike cycad of japan that yields sago
cirsium heterophylum;perennial stoloniferous thistle of northern europe with lanceolate basal leaves and usually solitary heads of reddish-purple flowers
gangsaw;a power saw that has several parallel blades making simultaneous cuts
brassica rapa pekinensis;plant with an elongated celery-like head of broad stalked leaves used as a vegetable in east asia
european smelt;the common smelt of europe
lepiota cepaestipes;a white agaric that tends to cluster and has a club-shaped base
grass snake;either of two n. american chiefly insectivorous green snakes
yellowthroat;small olive-colored american warblers with yellow breast and throat
leaf lettuce;distinguished by leaves having curled or incised leaves forming a loose rosette that does not develop into a compact head
marsh gentian;perennial eurasian gentian with sky-blue funnel-shaped flowers of damp open heaths
lysimachia quadrifolia;common north american yellow-flowered plant
cygnus atratus;large australian swan having black plumage and a red bill
blighia sapida;widely cultivated in tropical and subtropical regions for its fragrant flowers and colorful fruits. introduced in jamaica by captain bligh of hms bounty
english yew;predominant yew in europe. extraordinarily long-lived and slow growing. one of the oldest species in the world
wild angelica;european herb with compound leaves and white flowers. adventive on cape breton island
pholiota nameko;one of the most important fungi cultivated in japan
common iguana;large herbivorous tropical american arboreal lizards with a spiny crest along the back. used as human food in central and south america
snapping turtle;large aggressive freshwater turtle with powerful jaws
tadpole;a larval frog or toad
caesalpinia ferrea;thornless tree yielding heavy wood
sowbane;herb considered fatal to swine
jacksmelt;large silversides of pacific coast of north america
earthtongue;any club-shaped fungus of the genus geoglossum
hirudo medicinalis;large european freshwater leech formerly used for bloodletting
turmeric;widely cultivated tropical plant of india having yellow flowers and a large aromatic deep yellow rhizome. source of a condiment and a yellow dye
grassy death camas;plant of western north america to mexico. poisonous especially to grazing animals
finger millet;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
coho salmon;small salmon of north pacific coasts and the great lakes
crocodylus porosus;estuarine crocodile of eastern asia and pacific islands
airedale terrier;breed of large wiry-coated terrier bred in yorkshire
snow thrower;a machine that removes snow by scooping it up and throwing it forcefully through a chute
st peter s wort;european perennial st john's wort. ireland and france to western siberia
tree clubmoss;a variety of clubmoss
musk deer;small heavy-limbed upland deer of central asia. male secretes valued musk
scorpaena grandicornis;a kind of scorpionfish
sweet sand verbena;taller than abronia_elliptica and having night-blooming flowers
bladderpod;north american wild lobelia having small blue flowers and inflated capsules formerly used as an antispasmodic
diamondback rattlesnake;large deadly rattlesnake with diamond-shaped markings
silver hake;found off atlantic coast of north america
pitch pine;large 3-needled pine of the eastern united states and southeastern canada. closely related to the pond pine
leymus arenaria;a dune grass of the pacific seacoast used as a sand binder
martes martes;dark brown marten of northern eurasian coniferous forests
yellow ironweed;perennial herb with showy yellow flowers. the eastern united states
blessed thistle;tall old world biennial thistle with large clasping white-blotched leaves and purple flower heads. naturalized in california and south america
multiflora rose;vigorously growing rose having clusters of numerous small flowers. used for hedges and as grafting stock
ceratosaur;primitive medium-sized theropod. swift-running bipedal carnivorous dinosaur having grasping hands with sharp claws and a short horn between the nostrils. jurassic in north america
leoncita;small south american marmoset with silky fur and long nonprehensile tail
lesser prairie chicken;a smaller prairie chicken of western texas
phoenix tree;deciduous tree widely grown in southern united states as an ornamental for its handsome maplelike foliage and long racemes of yellow-green flowers followed by curious leaflike pods
chaffweed;weedy plant having short dry chafflike leaves
pernyi moth;a chinese moth that produces a brownish silk
herrerasaurus;a kind of theropod dinosaur found in argentina
lamellicorn beetle;beetle having antennae with hard platelike terminal segments
western saxifrage;saxifrage having loose clusters of white flowers on hairy stems growing from a cluster of basal leaves. moist slopes of western north america
phoradendron flavescens;the traditional mistletoe of christmas in america: grows on deciduous trees and can severely weaken the host plant
campanula rapunculus;bellflower of europe and asia and north africa having bluish flowers and an edible tuberous root used with the leaves in salad
pansy violet;common violet of the eastern united states with large pale blue or purple flowers resembling pansies
japanese yew;shrubby hardy evergreen of china and japan having lustrous dark green foliage. cultivated in the eastern united states
spring vetch;bushy european perennial having nodding racemose violet-blue flowers
tea tortrix;small indian moth infesting e.g. tea and coffee plants
wild calla;plant of wetlands and bogs of temperate regions having small greenish flowers partly enclosed in a white spathe and red berries
polemonium;any plant of the genus polemonium. most are low-growing often foul-smelling plants of temperate to arctic regions
coast boykinia;plant with leaves mostly at the base and openly branched clusters of small white flowers. western north america
vicugna vicugna;small wild cud-chewing andean animal similar to the guanaco but smaller. valued for its fleecy undercoat
chlamydera nuchalis;large bowerbird of northern australia
gipsywort;hairy eurasian herb with two-lipped white flowers
amorpha fruticosa;dense shrub of moist riverbanks and flood plains of the eastern united states having attractive fragrant foliage and dense racemes of dark purple flowers
coryphaena equisetis;a kind of dolphinfish
plott hound;a brindle-coated american hound used in hunting bears and wild boars
clupea harengus pallasii;important food fish of the north pacific
sponge morel;an edible and choice morel with a globular to elongate head with an irregular pattern of pits and ridges
popillia japonica;small metallic green and brown beetle native to eastern asia. serious plant pest in north america
potato scab bacteria;cause of a potato disease characterized by brownish corky tissue
tree toad;arboreal amphibians usually having adhesive disks at the tip of each toe. of southeast asia and australia and america
australian pine;common australian tree widely grown as an ornamental in tropical regions. yields heavy hard red wood
drum sander;a tool used for sanding wood. a loop of sandpaper is moved at high speed by an electric motor
silky elm;large tree of australasia
waxflower;epiphytic clusia of british_guiana
nephrolepis exaltata;a sword fern with arching or drooping pinnate fronds. a popular houseplant
screw bean;shrub or small tree of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico having spirally twisted pods
smoothhound shark;smooth dogfish of european coastal waters
scleroderma citrinum;an earthball fungus that is a dingy brownish yellow and a dark purplish interior. the peridium is covered with a pattern of small warts
white sweet clover;biennial plant. valuable honey plant
apis mellifera adansonii;a strain of bees that originated in brazil in the 1950s as a cross between an aggressive african bee and a honeybee. retains most of the traits of the african bee. now spread as far north as texas
yellow mombin;tropical american tree having edible yellow fruit
callirhoe involucrata;hairy perennial of central united states having round deeply-lobed leaves and loose panicles of large crimson-purple or cherry-red flowers
carcharhinus limbatus;widely distributed shallow-water shark with fins seemingly dipped in ink
goat;any of numerous agile ruminants related to sheep but having a beard and straight horns
lasiocampid;medium-sized stout-bodied neutral-colored moths comb-like antennae
richea dracophylla;stout australian shrub with narrow leaves crowded at ends of branches and terminal clusters of white or pink flowers
plains pocket gopher;gopher of chiefly grasslands of central north america
cobnut;small nut-bearing tree much grown in europe
hymenoxys grandiflora;whitish hairy plant with featherlike leaves and a few stout stems each bearing an especially handsome solitary large yellow flower head. mountainous regions north central united states
wild sensitive plant;tropical american plant having leaflets somewhat sensitive to the touch. sometimes placed in genus cassia
phalangium opilio;spider-like arachnid with a small rounded body and very long thin legs
maleo;celebes megapode that lays eggs in holes in sandy beaches
cypripedium fasciculatum;clusters of several short stems each having 2 broad leaves and 2-4 drooping brownish to greenish flowers with pouches mottled with purple. british columbia to central california and northern colorado
cassia fistula;deciduous or semi-evergreen tree having scented sepia to yellow flowers in drooping racemes and pods whose pulp is used medicinally. tropical asia and central and south america and australia
galloway;breed of hardy black chiefly beef cattle native to scotland
aardvark;nocturnal burrowing mammal of the grasslands of africa that feeds on termites. sole extant representative of the order tubulidentata
ulmus pumila;fast-growing shrubby asian tree naturalized in united states for shelter or ornament
lizard s tail;north american herbaceous perennial of wet places having slender curled tail-like racemes of small white flowers
kingsnake;any of numerous nonvenomous north american constrictors. feed on other snakes and small mammals
chardonnay grape;white wine grape
dobsonfly;large soft-bodied insect having long slender mandibles in the male. aquatic larvae often used as bait
thylacinus cynocephalus;rare doglike carnivorous marsupial of tasmania having stripes on its back. probably extinct
nilgai;large indian antelope. male is blue-grey with white markings. female is brownish with no horns
pinus taeda;tall spreading 3-needled pine of southeastern united states having reddish-brown fissured bark and a full bushy upper head
cichlid fish;freshwater fishes of tropical america and africa and asia similar to american sunfishes. some are food fishes. many small ones are popular in aquariums
coryphaena hippurus;the more common dolphinfish valued as food. about six feet long
citrus tangelo;hybrid between grapefruit and mandarin orange. cultivated especially in florida
suffrutex;low-growing woody shrub or perennial with woody base
cotton rose;any plant of the genus filago having capitate clusters of small woolly flower heads
tree poppy;evergreen shrub of southwestern united states and mexico often cultivated for its fragrant golden yellow flowers
capsicum baccatum;plant bearing very small and very hot oblong red fruits. includes wild forms native to tropical america. thought to be ancestral to the sweet pepper and many hot peppers
kangaroo s foot;sedgelike spring-flowering herb having clustered flowers covered with woolly hairs. australia
roach;european freshwater food fish having a greenish back
kid;young goat
vespid wasp;mostly social nest-building wasps
dwarf buckeye;a spreading shrub with pink flowers. found in southeastern united states
limenitis archippus;showy american butterfly resembling the monarch but smaller
walker hound;an american breed of foxhound
jumping orchid;orchid having both male and female flowers in the same raceme. when a sensitive projection at the base of the column of the male flower is touched the pollen is suddenly ejected
breakstone;any of various plants of the genus saxifraga
purple fringeless orchid;orchid of northeastern and alpine eastern north america closely related to the purple fringed orchids but having rosy-purple or violet flowers with denticulate leaf divisions
angora;domestic breed with long white silky hair
blindworm;any of the small slender limbless burrowing wormlike amphibians of the order gymnophiona. inhabit moist soil in tropical regions
phaseolus aureus;erect bushy annual widely cultivated in warm regions of india and indonesia and united states for forage and especially its edible seeds. chief source of bean sprouts used in chinese cookery. sometimes plaaaced in genus phaseolus
chinquapin;shrubby chestnut tree of southeastern united states having small edible nuts
vertebrate;animals having a bony or cartilaginous skeleton with a segmented spinal column and a large brain enclosed in a skull or cranium
kitten;young domestic cat
centaurea gymnocarpa;a plant having leaves and stems covered with dust-like down
himantopus stilt;long-legged three-toed black-and-white wading bird of inland ponds and marshes or brackish lagoons
liver chestnut;a solid dark brown horse
crayfish;large edible marine crustacean having a spiny carapace but lacking the large pincers of true lobsters
mammee;tropical american tree having edible fruit with a leathery rind
worker bee;sterile bee specialized to collect food and maintain the hive
canary bird;any of several small old world finches
egyptian corn;sorghums of dry regions of asia and north africa
tendergreen;asiatic plant cultivated for its swollen root crown and edible foliage
painted cup;any of various plants of the genus castilleja having dense spikes of hooded flowers with brightly colored bracts
reeve;female ruff
capibara;pig-sized tailless south american amphibious rodent with partly webbed feet. largest living rodent
opuntia cholla;arborescent cacti having very spiny cylindrical stem segments. southwestern united states and mexico
nymphaea stellata;blue lotus of india and southeastern asia
millettia;any of several tropical trees or shrubs yielding showy streaked dark reddish or chocolate-colored wood
japanese tree lilac;small tree of japan having narrow pointed leaves and creamy-white flowers
blue point;small edible oyster typically from the south shore of long island
thrush nightingale;large nightingale of eastern europe
xerophytic plant;plant adapted for life with a limited supply of water. compare hydrophyte and mesophyte
corn cockle;european annual having large trumpet-shaped reddish-purple flowers and poisonous seed. a common weed in grainfields and beside roadways. naturalized in america
nymphicus hollandicus;small gray australian parrot with a yellow crested head
bullsnake;any of several large harmless rodent-eating north american burrowing snakes
john s cabbage;showy perennial herb with white flowers. leaves sometimes used as edible greens in southeastern united states
lemming;any of various short-tailed furry-footed rodents of circumpolar distribution
astilbe biternata;north american astilbe with panicles of creamy white flowers
hemipteronatus novacula;a kind of razorfish
chilean jasmine;woody vine of argentina grown as an ornamental for its glossy leaves and racemes of large fragrant funnel-shaped creamy-white flowers
rose campion;an old cottage garden plant of southeastern europe widely cultivated for its attractive white woolly foliage and showy crimson flowers
dicrostonyx hudsonius;of northern canada
medusa s head;weedy rye grass having long bristling awns
caltrop;a plant of the genus trapa bearing spiny four-pronged edible nutlike fruits
northern pitch pine;large 3-needled pine of the eastern united states and southeastern canada. closely related to the pond pine
american mountain ash;a variety of mountain ash
leafroller;moth whose larvae form nests by rolling and tying leaves with spun silk
wood hen;flightless new zealand rail of thievish disposition having short wings each with a spur used in fighting
buffel grass;erect tussock-forming perennial bur grass used in especially in south africa and australia for pasture and forage
summer squash;any of various usually bushy plants producing fruit that is eaten while immature and before the rind or seeds harden
leotia lubrica;a discomycete that develops in clusters of slippery rubbery gelatinous fruiting bodies that are dingy yellow to tan in color
contopus sordidulus;small flycatcher of western north america
santa maria tree;west indian tree having racemes of fragrant white flowers and yielding a durable timber and resinous juice
wild yellow lily;common lily of the eastern united states having nodding yellow or reddish flowers spotted with brown
stocker;an animal usable in or suitable for a breeding establishment
kingbird;large american flycatcher
nettle leaved goosefoot;european annual with coarsely dentate leaves. widespread in united states and southern canada
sleeper goby;tropical fish that resembles a goby and rests quietly on the bottom in shallow water
american agave;widely cultivated american monocarpic plant with greenish-white flowers on a tall stalk. blooms only after ten to twenty years and then dies
amanita muscaria;poisonous (but rarely fatal) woodland fungus having a scarlet cap with white warts and white gills
opheodrys aestivus;of southern and eastern united states
dwarf gray willow;willow shrub of dry places in the eastern united states having long narrow leaves canescent beneath
ladybird;small round bright-colored and spotted beetle that usually feeds on aphids and other insect pests
quercus nigra;relatively tall deciduous water oak of southeastern united states often cultivated as a shade tree. thrives in wet soil
totalizer;registers bets and divides the total amount bet among those who won
harvest mite;larval mite that sucks the blood of vertebrates including human beings causing intense irritation
swamp gum;medium-sized tree of southern australia
reticulated python;of southeast asia and east indies. the largest snake in the world
hispid pocket mouse;large stiff-haired rodent of shortgrass prairies of united states
golden aster;any of several shrubby herbs or subshrubs of the genus chrysopsis having bright golden-yellow flower heads that resemble asters. throughout much of united states and into canada
yellow oleander;tropical american shrub or small tree having glossy dark green leaves and fragrant saffron yellow to orange or peach- colored flowers. all parts highly poisonous
rubus ursinus loganobaccus;red-fruited bramble native tostates (oregon to baja california)
gentianopsis crinita;tall widely distributed fringed gentian of eastern north america having violet-blue or white fringed flowers
pilchard;small fishes found in great schools along coasts of europe. smaller and rounder than herring
rutilus rutilus;european freshwater food fish having a greenish back
squill;having dense spikes of small white flowers and yielding a bulb with medicinal properties
lookdown fish;similar to moonfish but with eyes high on the truncated forehead
machaeranthera tanacetifolia;wild aster with fernlike leaves and flower heads with very narrow bright purple rays. alberta to texas and mexico
sea pink;tufted thrift of seacoasts and mountains of north temperate zone. occasionally grown as a ground cover
enduringness;permanence by virtue of the power to resist stress or force. 'they advertised the durability of their products'
pied lemming;north american lemming having a white winter coat and some claws much enlarged
chenopodium vulvaria;european goosefoot with strong-scented foliage. adventive in eastern north america
euphorbia antisyphilitica;wax-coated shrub of northern mexico and southwestern united states
fox terrier;small lively black-and-white terriers formerly used to dig out foxes
gloxinia;any of several plants of the genera gloxinia or sinningia (greenhouse gloxinias) having showy bell-shaped flowers
climbing fern;any of several ferns of the genus lygodium
soldier grainy club;a variety of grainy club
gayal;ox of southeast asia sometimes considered a domesticated breed of the gaur
lathyrus maritimus;wild pea of seashores of north temperate zone having tough roots and purple flowers and useful as a sand binder
tamarind;long-lived tropical evergreen tree with a spreading crown and feathery evergreen foliage and fragrant flowers yielding hard yellowish wood and long pods with edible chocolate-colored acidic pulp
camellia;any of several shrubs or small evergreen trees having solitary white or pink or reddish flowers
fritillaria parviflora;california herb with brownish-purple or greenish bell-shaped flowers
alnus rhombifolia;tree of western united states
garden current;cultivated european current bearing small edible red berries
horsefly weed;much-branched erect herb with bright yellow flowers. distributed from massachusetts to florida
baby s breath;tall plant with small lance-shaped leaves and numerous tiny white or pink flowers
crystal tea;evergreen shrub of eastern north america having white or creamy bell-shaped flowers and dark green hairy leaves used for tea during american revolution
hairy spurge;much-branched hirsute weed native to northeastern north america
quercus stellata;small deciduous tree of eastern and central united states having dark green lyrate pinnatifid leaves and tough moisture-resistant wood used especially for fence posts
placental;mammals having a placenta. all mammals except monotremes and marsupials
grass fern;epiphytic fern found in lowland forests of tropical america
ceratitis capitata;small black-and-white fly that damages citrus and other fruits by implanting eggs that hatch inside the fruit
scarlet oak;medium-large thick-trunked deciduous tree of the eastern united states and southern canada having close-grained wood and deeply 7-lobed leaves turning scarlet in autumn
baa lamb;child's word for a sheep or lamb
tuberous begonia;any of numerous begonias having large tuberous roots
spotted sea trout;weakfish of southern atlantic and gulf coasts of united states
comma bacillus;comma-shaped bacteria that cause asiatic cholera
devil s tongue;foul-smelling somewhat fleshy tropical plant of southeastern asia cultivated for its edible corms or in the greenhouse for its large leaves and showy dark red spathe surrounding a large spadix
coxsackievirus;enterovirus causing a disease resembling poliomyelitis but without paralysis
ginep;tropical american tree bearing a small edible fruit with green leathery skin and sweet juicy translucent pulp
scarlet cup;a discomycete that is a harbinger of spring. the fruiting body is thin and tough and saucer-shaped (about the size of quarter to a half dollar) with a deep bright red upper surface and a whitish exterior
oriental poppy;commonly cultivated asiatic perennial poppy having stiff heavily haired leaves and bright scarlet or pink to orange flowers
tailorbird;tropical asian warbler that stitches leaves together to form and conceal its nest
astilbe japonica;a japanese shrub that resembles members of the genus spiraea. widely cultivated in many varieties for its dense panicles of flowers in many colors. often forced by florists for easter blooming
monitor lizard;any of various large tropical carnivorous lizards of africa asia and australia. fabled to warn of crocodiles
puku;an african antelope closely related to the waterbuck
cornus florida;deciduous tree. celebrated for its large white or pink flower-like bracts and stunning autumn color followed by red berries
fairy shrimp;small freshwater branchiopod having a transparent body with many appendages. swims on its back
wall barley;european annual grass often found as a weed in waste ground especially along roadsides and hedgerows
ursus thibetanus;black bear of central and eastern asia
french weed;foetid eurasian weed having round flat pods. naturalized throughout north america
maple;any of numerous trees or shrubs of the genus acer bearing winged seeds in pairs. north temperate zone
dwarf pocket rat;small silky-haired pouched rodent. similar to but smaller than kangaroo rats
wolffiella gladiata;having narrow flat sickle-shaped submerged fronds. north america
black birch;birch of swamps and river bottoms throughout the eastern united states having reddish-brown bark
american spikenard;unarmed woody rhizomatous perennial plant distinguished from wild sarsaparilla by more aromatic roots and panicled umbels. southeastern north america to mexico
cirsium discolor;stout north american thistle with purplish-pink flower heads
rambutan tree;malayan tree bearing spiny red fruit
cottonmouth moccasin;venomous semiaquatic snake of swamps in southern united states
sabicu;west indian tree yielding la hard dark born wood resembling mahogany in texture and value
wine palm;tall fan palm of africa and india and malaysia yielding a hard wood and sweet sap that is a source of palm wine and sugar. leaves used for thatching and weaving
croton tiglium;tropical asiatic shrub. source of croton_oil
ficus elastica;large tropical asian tree frequently dwarfed as a houseplant. source of assam rubber
maguey;philippine plant yielding a hard fibre used in making coarse twine
listera convallarioides;small orchid with two elliptic leaves and a slender raceme of small green flowers. western north america
calico crab;brightly spotted crab of sandy beaches of the united states atlantic coast
globe amaranth;tropical american herb having rose to red or purple flowers that can be dried without losing color
petunia hybrida;hybrids of petunia axillaris and petunia integrifolia: a complex group of petunias having single or double flowers in colors from white to purple
owlet moth;usually dull-colored medium-sized nocturnal moth. the usually smooth-bodied larvae are destructive agricultural pests
armadillo;burrowing chiefly nocturnal mammal with body covered with strong horny plates
star thistle;mediterannean annual or biennial herb having pinkish to purple flowers surrounded by spine-tipped scales. naturalized in america
monkfish;sharks with broad flat bodies and winglike pectoral fins but that swim the way sharks do
false mildew;any of various fungi of the family peronosporaceae parasitic on e.g. grapes and potatoes and melons
blowfly;large usually hairy metallic blue or green fly. lays eggs in carrion or dung or wounds
sage grouse;large grouse of sagebrush regions of north america
unau;relatively small fast-moving sloth
crow pheasant;common coucal of india and china
kingfisher;nonpasserine large-headed bird with a short tail and long sharp bill. usually crested and bright-colored. feed mostly on fish
panax quinquefolius;north american woodland herb similar to and used as substitute for the chinese ginseng
imperishingness;the property of being resistant to decay. 'he advertised the imperishability of the product'
saccharum bengalense;tough asiatic grass whose culms are used for ropes and baskets
soft corn;corn having kernels almost entirely of soft starch
aerobe;an organism esp. a bacterium that requires air or free oxygen for life
rangpur lime;hybrid between mandarin orange and lemon having very acid fruit with orange peel
common gum cistus;shrub having white flowers and viscid stems and leaves yielding a fragrant oleoresin used in perfumes especially as a fixative
ram;uncastrated adult male sheep: 'a british term is 'tup''
hedeoma pulegioides;erect hairy branching american herb having purple-blue flowers. yields an essential oil used as an insect repellent and sometimes in folk medicine
sparrow hawk;small hawk of eurasia and north africa
bacteria;single-celled or noncellular spherical or spiral or rod-shaped organisms lacking chlorophyll that reproduce by fission. important as pathogens and for biochemical properties. taxonomy is difficult. often considered plants
black lovage;european herb somewhat resembling celery widely naturalized in britain coastal regions and often cultivated as a potherb
broadtail;hardy coarse-haired sheep of central asia. lambs are valued for their soft curly black fur
cyprinid;soft-finned mainly freshwater fishes typically having toothless jaws and cycloid scales
sergeant fish;large dark-striped tropical food and game fish related to remoras. found worldwide in coastal to open waters
hill myna;glossy black asiatic starling often taught to mimic speech
lilium candidum;lily of eastern mediterranean and the balkans with broad funnel-shaped white flowers
body louse;a parasitic louse that infests the body of human beings
agrimonia procera;fragrant european perennial herb found at woodland margins on moist soils
mutant;an organism that has characteristics resulting from chromosomal alteration
false rue;slender erect perennial of eastern north america having tuberous roots and pink-tinged white flowers. resembles meadow rue
lefteyed flounder;flatfishes with both eyes on the left side of the head
cyperus esculentus;european sedge having small edible nutlike tubers
creeping crowfoot;perennial european herb with long creeping stolons
bergamot mint;mint with leaves having perfume like that of the bergamot orange
pinus strobus;tall-growing pine of eastern north america. bark is brown with longitudinal fissures when mature. valued as a timber tree
checkerbloom;perennial purple-flowered wild mallow of western north america that is also cultivated
leathery grape fern;european fern with leathery and sparsely hairy fronds
king cobra;large cobra of southeastern asia and the east indies. the largest venomous snake. sometimes placed in genus naja
short horned grasshopper;grasshopper with short antennae
ceratopteris pteridioides;aquatic fern of tropical america often used in aquariums
yellow poplar;tall north american deciduous timber tree having large tulip-shaped greenish yellow flowers and conelike fruit. yields soft white woods used especially for cabinet work
haplopappus spinulosus;slender perennial of western north america having weakly bristly leaves and yellow flower heads
common daisy;low-growing eurasian plant with yellow central disc flowers and pinkish-white outer ray flowers
stickleback;small (2-4 inches) pugnacious mostly scaleless spiny-backed fishes of northern fresh and littoral waters having elaborate courtship. subjects of much research
rhus copallina;common nonpoisonous shrub of eastern north america with compound leaves and green paniculate flowers followed by red berries
microstomus kitt;european flatfish highly valued as food
scurvy grass;a widely distributed arctic cress reputed to have value in treatment or prevention of scurvy. a concentrated source of vitamin c
tonka bean tree;tall tropical south american tree having pulpy egg-shaped pods of fragrant black almond-shaped seeds used for flavoring
cinchona tree;small tree of ecuador and peru having very large glossy leaves and large panicles of fragrant pink flowers. cultivated for its medicinal bark
largeleaf holly;a holly tree
tanglebush;spiny branching deciduous shrub of southwestern united states having clusters of insignificant yellow-white flowers appearing before leaves followed by attractive black berrylike fruits
whelk;large carnivorous marine gastropods of coastal waters and intertidal regions having a strong snail-like shell
lespedeza cuneata;perennial widely planted as for forage and as hay crop especially on poor land
bracketed blenny;small eellike fishes common in shallow waters of the north atlantic
western tanager;of western north america. male is black and yellow and orange-red
cashmere goat;himalayan goat having a silky undercoat highly prized as cashmere wool
huntingdon willow;large willow tree of eurasia and north africa having grayish canescent leaves and gray bark
buckthorn;any shrub or small tree of the genus bumelia
freetailed bat;small swift bat with leathery ears and a long tail. common in warm regions
pieris rapae;toxic green larva of a cabbage butterfly
american lobster;lobster of atlantic coast of america
cabbage butterfly;white butterfly whose larvae (cabbageworms) feed on cabbage
cane reed;tall grass of southern united states growing in thickets
lupin;any plant of the genus lupin. bearing erect spikes of usually purplish-blue flowers
silkworm moth;any silkworm moth of the family saturniidae
hog molly;widely distributed in warm clear shallow streams
fiddler crab;burrowing crab of american coastal regions having one claw much enlarged in the male
creosote bush;desert shrub of southwestern united states and new mexico having persistent resinous aromatic foliage and small yellow flowers
euphorbia pulcherrima;tropical american plant having poisonous milk and showy tapering usually scarlet petallike leaves surrounding small yellow flowers
head;a single domestic animal: '200 head of cattle'
megathere;gigantic extinct terrestrial sloth-like mammal of the pliocene and pleistocene in america
blood berry;bushy houseplant having white to pale pink flowers followed by racemes of scarlet berries. tropical americas
pasang;large african antelope with long straight nearly upright horns
false heather;north american decumbent evergreen heathlike plant with yellow flowers
cucumis melo;any of several varieties of vine whose fruit has a netted rind and edible flesh and a musky smell
figured fabric loom;a loom for weaving figured fabrics
lumpsucker;any of several very small lumpfishes
flannel mullein;tall-stalked very woolly mullein with densely packed yellow flowers. ancient greeks and romans dipped the stalks in tallow for funeral torches
pitahaya cactus;cactus of the southwestern united states and northern mexico having edible juicy fruit
damping off fungus;fungus causing damping off disease in seedlings
stinking gladwyn;iris with purple flowers and evil-smelling leaves. southern and western europe and north africa
balsam;any seed plant yielding balsam
booyong;large tree of australasia
cazique;black-and-red or black-and-yellow orioles of the american tropics
acrocephalus schoenobaenus;small european warbler that breeds among reeds and wedges and winters in africa
ark shell;marine bivalve mollusk having a heavy toothed shell with a deep boat-like inner surface
ox;an adult castrated bull of the genus_bos. especially bos taurus
retriever;a dog with heavy water-resistant coat that can be trained to retrieve game
flour mill;a mill for grinding grain into flour
aphriza virgata;sandpiper-like shorebird of pacific coasts of north and south america
dwarf dandelion;small yellow-flowered herb resembling dandelions of central and southeastern united states
sweet cassava;south american plant with roots used as a vegetable and herbage used for stock feed
fusanus acuminatus;australian tree with edible flesh and edible nutlike seed
jack oak;small to medium deciduous oak of east central north america. leaves have sharply pointed lobes
hind;any of several mostly spotted fishes that resemble groupers
harpullia;any of various tree of the genus harpullia
jewel orchid;any of several delicate asiatic orchids grown especially for their velvety leaves with metallic white or gold veining
cantaloup;a variety of muskmelon vine having fruit with a tan rind and orange flesh
caragana sinica;shrub with dark-green glossy foliage and solitary pale yellow flowers. northern china
trailing four o clock;trailing plant having crowded clusters of 3 brilliant deep pink flowers resembling a single flower blooming near the ground. found in dry gravelly or sandy soil. southwestern united states and mexico
lonicera caprifolium;deciduous climbing shrub with fragrant yellow-white flowers in axillary whorls
texas longhorn;long-horned beef cattle formerly common in southwestern united states
achoerodus gouldii;found around the great barrier reef
bear s ear;yellow-flowered primrose native to alps. commonly cultivated
black bear;brown to black north american bear. smaller and less ferocious than the brown bear
crested screamer;distinguished from the horned screamer by a feathery crest on the back of the head
lacerta viridis;a common eurasian lizard about a foot long
princewood;large tropical american tree of the genus cordia grown for its abundant creamy white flowers and valuable wood
callisaurus draconoides;swift lizard with long black-banded tail and long legs. of deserts of united states and mexico
hydroid;colonial coelenterates having the polyp phase dominant
proteus anguinus;european cave-dwelling aquatic salamander with permanent external gills
cardoon;southern european plant having spiny leaves and purple flowers cultivated for its edible leafstalks and roots
aulostomus maculatus;tropical atlantic fish with a long snout. swims snout down
guadalupe fur seal;of pacific coast of california and southward
emilia flammea;tropical african annual having scarlet tassel-shaped flower heads. sometimes placed in genus cacalia
blowfish;any of numerous marine fishes whose elongated spiny body can inflate itself with water or air to form a globe. several species contain a potent nerve poison. closely related to spiny puffers
gardener s garters;perennial grass of marshy meadows and ditches having broad leaves. europe and north america
golem;"a mechanism that can move automatically"
water boatman;carnivorous aquatic bug having paddle-like hind legs
dent corn;corn whose kernels contain both hard and soft starch and become indented at maturity
caulophyllum thalictrioides;tall herb of eastern north america and asia having blue berrylike fruit and a thick knotty rootstock formerly used medicinally
pale coral root;plant having clumps of nearly leafless pale yellowish to greenish stems bearing similarly colored flowers with white lower lips. northern new mexico north through south dakota and washington to alaska
tufted titmouse;crested titmouse of eastern and midwestern united states
lamb s quarters;common weedy european plant introduced into north america. often used as a potherb
hepatica;any of several plants of the genus hepatica having 3-lobed leaves and white or pinkish flowers in early spring. of moist and mossy subalpine woodland areas of north temperate regions
pussy;informal terms
staff tree;any small tree or twining shrub of the genus celastrus
soapberry tree;a tree of the genus sapindus whose fruit is rich in saponin
red goosefoot;common eurasian weed. naturalized in united states
anapsid reptile;primitive reptile having no opening in the temporal region of the skull. all extinct except turtles
columba palumbus;eurasian pigeon with white patches on wings and neck
sweet alison;perennial european plant having clusters of small fragrant usually white flowers. widely grown in gardens
prunus triloba;deciduous chinese shrub or small tree with often trilobed leaves grown for its pink-white flowers
slow virus;a virus that remains dormant in the body for a long time before symptoms appear. 'kuru is caused by a slow virus'
golden pothos;evergreen liana widely cultivated for its variegated foliage
carnivorous bat;typically having large ears and feeding primarily on insects. worldwide in distribution
mavis;common old world thrush noted for its song
red siskin;south american species of scarlet finch with black head and wings and tail
blazing star;biennial of southwestern united states having lustrous-white stems and toothed leaves grown for its large pale yellow flowers that open in early morning
virginia creeper;common north american vine with compound leaves and bluish-black berrylike fruit
water moccasin;venomous semiaquatic snake of swamps in southern united states
echium vulgare;a coarse prickly european weed with spikes of blue flowers. naturalized in united states
black knapweed;a weedy perennial with tough wiry stems and purple flowers. native to europe but widely naturalized
shovelhead;small harmless hammerhead having a spade-shaped head. abundant in bays and estuaries
arenaria caroliniana;deep-rooted perennial of southeastern united states
ground rose;low-growing bristly shrub of southern oregon and california with creeping rootstocks and usually corymbose flowers
mullus auratus;body bright scarlet with 2 yellow to reddish strips on side
bettong;short-nosed rat kangaroo
swedish turnip;plant with a thick bulbous edible yellow root. used as food and animal feed
pore fungus;woody pore fungi. any fungus of the family polyporaceae or family boletaceae having the spore-bearing surface within tubes or pores. the fruiting bodies are usually woody at maturity and persistent
american elm;large ornamental tree with graceful gradually spreading branches common in eastern north america
holothuria edulis;of warm coasts from australia to asia. used as food esp. by chinese
maple leaf begonia;tuberous or semi-tuberous south african begonia having shallowly lobed ovate leaves and small white flowers
grayback;a dowitcher with a gray back
red osier;eurasian osier having reddish or purple twigs and bark rich in tannin
cinnamomum loureirii;tropical southeast asian tree with aromatic bark. yields a bark used medicinally
thimbleberry;white-flowered raspberry of western north america and northern mexico with thimble-shaped orange berries
denisonia superba;venomous but sluggish reddish-brown snake of australia
xenopus laevis;native to africa. established in the united states as result of release of laboratory and aquarium animals
silene virginica;perennial herb of eastern north america, having red flowers with narrow notched petals
henbit;eurasian plant having toothed leaves and small two-lipped white or purplish-red flowers
western red cedar;large valuable arborvitae of northwestern united states
archaeornis;extinct primitive toothed bird with a long feathered tail and three free clawed digits on each wing
rush;grasslike plants growing in wet places and having cylindrical often hollow stems
sawfly;insect whose female has a saw-like ovipositor for inserting eggs into the leaf or stem tissue of a host plant
cynoglossum officinale;biennial shrub of europe and western asia having coarse tongue-shaped leaves and dark reddish-purple flowers
thomomys talpoides;grayish to brown gopher of western and central united states
cockspur thorn;eastern united states hawthorn with long straight thorns
red backed lemming;old world lemming
marsh pea;scrambling perennial of damp or marshy areas of eurasia and north america with purplish flowers
solitary vireo;of eastern north america having a bluish-gray head and mostly green body
vervain sage;eurasian sage with blue flowers and verbenalike foliage. naturalized in united states
helianthemum;any plant of the genus helianthemum. vigorous plants of stony alpine meadows and dry scrub regions
white breasted nuthatch;bluish-gray nuthatch with black head and white breast. of eastern north america
whole snipe;common snipe of eurasia and africa
monkey dog;european breed of small dog resembling a terrier with dark wiry hair and a tufted muzzle
tree swift;birds of southeast asia and east indies differing from true swifts in having upright crests and nesting in trees
auricularia auricula;widely distributed edible fungus shaped like a human ear and growing on decaying wood
hyacinthoides nonscripta;sometimes placed in genus scilla
knitting machine;a machine that makes knitted textiles
rust fungus;any of various fungi causing rust disease in plants
spice bush;deciduous shrub of the eastern united states having highly aromatic leaves and bark and yellow flowers followed by scarlet or yellow berries
geebung;any of numerous shrubs and small trees having hard narrow leaves and long-lasting yellow or white flowers followed by small edible but insipid fruits
white potato;annual native to south america having underground stolons bearing edible starchy tubers. widely cultivated as a garden vegetable. vines are poisonous
ewe;female sheep
lanius excubitor;common european butcherbird
jade vine;vigorous philippine evergreen twining liana. grown for spectacular festoons of green lobster-claw-like flowers
cayenne pepper;plant bearing very hot and finely tapering long peppers. usually red
bambusa vulgaris;extremely vigorous bamboo having thin-walled culms striped green and yellow. so widely cultivated that native area is uncertain
cider gum;small to medium-sized tree of tasmania
pebble plant;any of several south african plants of the genus mesembryanthemum cultivated for showy pink or white flowers
heuchera sanguinea;perennial plant of the western united states having bright red flowers in feathery spikes. used as an ornamental
nematode;unsegmented worms with elongated rounded body pointed at both ends. mostly free-living but some are parasitic
nymph;a larva of an insect with incomplete metamorphosis (as the dragonfly or mayfly)
pearly everlasting;american everlasting having foliage with soft wooly hairs and corymbose heads with pearly white bracts
moorcock;male red grouse
coral root bittercress;european bittercress having a knotted white rootstock
wild quinine;stout perennial herb of the eastern united states with whitish flowers. leaves traditionally used by catawba indians to treat burns
liver spotted dalmatian;a brown-spotted dalmatian
lingonberry;low evergreen shrub of high north temperate regions of europe and asia and america bearing red edible berries
tumbleweed;bushy annual weed of central north america having greenish flowers and winged seeds
calandrinia ciliata;succulent carpet-forming plant having small brilliant reddish-pink flowers. southwestern united states
swamp locust;honey locust of swamps and bottomlands of southern united states having short oval pods. yields dark heavy wood
carrizo;tall north american reed having relative wide leaves and large plumelike panicles. widely distributed in moist areas. used for mats, screens and arrow shafts
equisetum hyemale;evergreen erect horsetail with rough-edged stems. formerly used for scouring utensils
sun plant;widely cultivated in many varieties for its fleshy mosslike foliage and profusion of brightly colored flowers
blackcap;small brownish-gray warbler with a black crown
silky pocket mouse;small pale yellowish soft-furred rodent of southwestern united states and mexico
beach heather;small heathlike plant covered with white down growing on beaches in northeastern north america
trifolium incarnatum;southern european annual with spiky heads of crimson flower. extensively cultivated in united states for forage
red tailed hawk;dark brown american hawk species having a reddish-brown tail
chili pepper;plant bearing very hot and finely tapering long peppers. usually red
chilean nut;chilean shrub bearing coral-red fruit with an edible seed resembling a hazelnut
treefrog;arboreal amphibians usually having adhesive disks at the tip of each toe. of southeast asia and australia and america
picea breweriana;medium-sized spruce of california and oregon having pendulous branches
calostoma lutescens;a gasteromycete with a leathery stalk and a fruiting body that is globose and has a pale yellow spore case
vespertilian bat;a variety of carnivorous bat
hyoscyamus niger;poisonous fetid old world herb having sticky hairy leaves and yellow-brown flowers. yields hyoscyamine and scopolamine
carob tree;evergreen mediterranean tree with edible pods. the biblical carob
comb footed spider;spider having a comb-like row of bristles on each hind foot
gossypium peruvianum;cotton with long rough hairy fibers
angiospermous yellowwood;any of various angiospermous trees having yellow wood
ovenbird;american warbler. builds a dome-shaped nest on the ground
broom;common old world heath represented by many varieties. low evergreen grown widely in the northern hemisphere
american oriole;american songbird. male is black and orange or yellow
charina bottae;boa of grasslands and woodlands of western north america. looks and feels like rubber with tail and head of similar shape
coriandrum sativum;old world herb with aromatic parsleylike leaves and seed
ajuga pyramidalis;european evergreen carpeting perennial
little clubmoss;of northern europe and america. resembling a miniature fir
buffalo grass;low mat-forming grass of southern united states and tropical america. grown as a lawn grass
clove tree;moderate sized very symmetrical red-flowered evergreen widely cultivated in the tropics for its flower buds which are source of cloves
king begonia;any of numerous usually rhizomatous hybrid begonias derived from an east indian plant having rough-textured leaves patterned in silver and bronze and purple and red-brown with inconspicuous flowers
threadfin;mullet-like tropical marine fishes having pectoral fins with long threadlike rays
cornelian cherry;deciduous european shrub or small tree having bright red fruit
ovis canadensis;wild sheep of mountainous regions of western north america having massive curled horns
clover fern;any of several water ferns of the genus marsilea having four leaflets
maypop;of southern united states. having an insipid berry the size of a hen egg
allium paradoxum;leek producing bulbils instead of flowers. russia and iran
laurelwood;tropical american tree. valued for its hard durable wood
pteropus capestratus;a variety of fruit bat
yellow loosestrife;frequently considered a weed. europe and asia
phyllodoce breweri;semi-prostrate evergreen herb of western united states
lunaria annua;southeastern european plant cultivated for its fragrant purplish flowers and round flat papery silver-white seedpods that are used for indoor decoration
salix vitellina;european willow having grayish leaves and yellow-orange twigs used in basketry
domestic animal;any of various domesticated animals
eschrichtius gibbosus;medium-sized grayish-black whale of the north pacific
checkered daffodil;eurasian checkered lily with pendant flowers usually veined and checkered with purple or maroon on a pale ground and shaped like the bells carried by lepers in medieval times. widely grown as an ornamental
neoceratodus forsteri;large edible australian lungfish having paddle-shaped fins
dwarf lycopod;tufted spikemoss forming loose spreading mats. eastern north america
bamboo palm;small graceful palm with reedlike stems and leaf bases clothed with loose coarse fibers
yellow pine;any of various pines having yellow wood
apple;native eurasian tree widely cultivated in many varieties for its firm rounded edible fruits
stud;adult male horse kept for breeding
alligatorfish;small very elongate sea poachers
luna moth;large pale-green american moth with long-tailed hind wings and a yellow crescent-shaped mark on each fore wing
rocky mountain sheep;wild sheep of mountainous regions of western north america having massive curled horns
telsontail;any of several minute primitive wingless and eyeless insects having a cone-shaped head. inhabit damp soil or decaying organic matter
coumarouna odorata;tall tropical south american tree having pulpy egg-shaped pods of fragrant black almond-shaped seeds used for flavoring
junco hyemalis;common north american junco having gray plumage and eyes with dark brown irises
florentine iris;german iris having large white flowers with lavender-tinged falls and a fragrant rhizome
golden spleen;any of various low aquatic herbs of the genus chrysosplenium
uma notata;with long pointed scales around toes. of deserts of united states and mexico
roquette;erect european annual often grown as a salad crop to be harvested when young and tender
salix sitchensis;small shrubby tree of western north america (alaska to oregon)
xanthosoma sagittifolium;tropical american aroid having edible tubers that are cooked and eaten like yams or potatoes
ipomoea leptophylla;long-rooted morning glory of western united states
spinning frame;draws, twists, and winds yarn
sarcocystidean;parasite of the muscles of vertebrates
podicipitiform seabird;aquatic birds related to the loons
bladder campion;perennial of arctic europe having large white flowers with inflated calyx
cynodon plectostachyum;perennial grass having stems 3 to 4 feet high. used especially in africa and india for pasture and hay
malcolmia maritima;erect branching herb cultivated for its loose racemes of fragrant white or pink or red or lilac flowers. native to sands and sea cliffs of southwestern greece and southern albania
beaumontia grandiflora;evergreen woody twiner with large glossy leaves and showy corymbs of fragrant white trumpet-shaped flowers
beetroot;beet having a massively swollen red root. widely grown for human consumption
eurasian badger;a variety of badger native to europe and asia
blue succory;south european plant having dark-eyed flowers with flat blue rays
halimodendron halodendron;spiny shrub of thhhe caspian salt plains and siberia having elegant silve3ry-downy young foliage and mildly fragrant pink-purple blooms
tresses;european orchid having shorter racemes of strongly spiraling snow-white flowers
desmodus rotundus;mouse-sized bat of tropical central and south america having sharp incisor and canine teeth. feeds on the blood of birds and mammals
acerola;tropical american shrub bearing edible acid red fruit resembling cherries
italian rye;european grass much used for hay and in united states also for turf and green manure
mojave aster;wild aster having grayish leafy stems and flower heads with narrow pale lavender or violet rayes. of rocky desert slopes california to arizona and utah
logwood tree;spiny shrub or small tree of central america and west indies having bipinnate leaves and racemes of small bright yellow flowers and yielding a hard brown or brownish-red heartwood used in preparing a black dye
virginia stock;erect branching herb cultivated for its loose racemes of fragrant white or pink or red or lilac flowers. native to sands and sea cliffs of southwestern greece and southern albania
limnodromus scolopaceus;a dowitcher with a red breast
pichi;peruvian shrub with small pink to lavender tubular flowers. leaves yield a tonic and diuretic
platymiscium trinitatis;large tree of trinidad and guyana having odd-pinnate leaves and violet-scented axillary racemes of yellow flowers and long smooth pods. grown as a specimen in parks and large gardens
corn marigold;european herb with bright yellow flowers. a common weed in grain fields
harrow;a cultivating implement that pulverizes or smoothes the soil
proteles cristata;striped mammal of southeast africa that feeds chiefly on insects
sang;north american woodland herb similar to and used as substitute for the chinese ginseng
selenarctos thibetanus;black bear of central and eastern asia
mum;of china
zea saccharata;corn whose young ears are sweet and suitable for eating as a vegetable
wartwort;not unattractive european weed whose flowers turn toward the sun
imbauba;tropical american tree with large peltate leaves and hollow stems
podocarpus amara;a large fast-growing monoecious tropical evergreen tree having large glossy lanceolate leaves. of rain forests of sumatra and philippines to northern queensland
polychaete;chiefly marine annelids possessing both sexes and having paired appendages (parapodia) bearing bristles
nameko;one of the most important fungi cultivated in japan
entoloma sinuatum;a deadly poisonous agaric. a large cap that is first white (livid or lead-colored) and then turns yellowish or tan
stone parsley;slender roadside herb of western europe and mediterranean having parsleylike foliage and white flowers with aromatic seeds
rockingham podocarp;large australian tree with straight-grained yellow wood that turns brown on exposure
potato tree;hardy climbing shrub of chile grown as an ornamental for its fragrant flowers. not a true potato
poplar;any of numerous trees of north temperate regions having light soft wood and flowers borne in catkins
robot;"a mechanism that can move automatically"
lonas inodora;shrub of southwestern mediterranean region having yellow daisylike flowers
slot;a slot machine that is used for gambling
padauk;tree native to southeastern asia having reddish wood with a mottled or striped black grain
slider;freshwater turtle of united states and south america. frequently raised commercially. some young sold as pets
bryanthus taxifolius;small shrub with tiny evergreen leaves and pink or purple flowers. alpine summits and high ground in asia and europe and united states
codling moth;small moth whose larvae live in apples and english walnuts
centrosema virginianum;largle-flowered weakly twining or prostrate vine of nj to tropical eastern north america, sometimes cultivated for its purple and white flowers
chimney swallow;common swallow of north america and europe that nests in barns etc.
jacob s rod;asphodel having erect smooth unbranched stem either flexuous or straight
magnoliopsid;flowering plant with two cotyledons
spotted weakfish;weakfish of southern atlantic and gulf coasts of united states
parus carolinensis;southern united states chickadee similar to the blackcap but smaller
argonauta argo;cephalopod mollusk of warm seas whose females have delicate papery spiral shells
yellow vetchling;scrambling perennial eurasian wild pea having yellowish flowers and compressed seed pods. cultivated for forage
sandbar shark;most common gray shark along coasts of middle atlantic states. sluggish and occasionally caught by fishermen
fossa cat;largest carnivore of madagascar. intermediate in some respects between cats and civets
pseudomonad;bacteria usually producing greenish fluorescent water-soluble pigment. some pathogenic for plants and animals
polygala senega;eastern north american plant having a terminal cluster of small white flowers and medicinal roots
flatfish;any of several families of fishes having flattened bodies that swim along the sea floor on one side of the body with both eyes on the upper side
white rumped shrike;of western north america. gray with white underparts
pink disease fungus;fungus causing pink disease in citrus and coffee and rubber trees etc
rhodosphaera rhodanthema;evergreen of australia yielding a dark yellow wood
ixodes persulcatus;bites humans. a vector for lyme disease spirochete
towhee;any of numerous long-tailed american finches
mastigoproctus giganteus;large whipscorpion of mexico and southern united states that emits a vinegary odor when alarmed
ixodes neotomae;a tick that usually does not bite humans. transmits lyme disease spirochete to dusky-footed woodrats
chinchilla rat;ratlike rodent with soft fur and large ears of the andes
chicken;bred for flesh or eggs. believed to have been developed from the red jungle fowl
eelworm;any of various small free-living plant-parasitic roundworms
horse mackerel;largest tuna. to 1500 pounds. of mostly temperate seas: feed in polar regions but breed in tropics
flameflower;plant with fleshy roots and erect stems with narrow succulent leaves and 1 reddish-orange flower in each upper leaf axil. southwestern united states. indians once cooked the fleshy roots
early morel;resembles a thimble on a finger. the surface of the fertile portion is folded into wrinkles that extend from the top down. fruiting begins in spring before the leaves are out on the trees
egyptian henbane;leaves are a source of hyoscymine
blue stem;tall grass with smooth bluish leaf sheaths grown for hay in the united states
xerophyte;plant adapted for life with a limited supply of water. compare hydrophyte and mesophyte
fissiped;terrestrial carnivores. having toes separated to the base: dogs. cats. bears. badgers. raccoons
chinese forget me not;biennial east asian herb grown for its usually bright blue flowers
winged elm;north american elm having twigs and young branches with prominent corky projections
siberian husky;breed of sled dog developed in northeastern siberia. they resemble the larger alaskan malamutes
myrtaceous tree;trees and shrubs
american dog tick;common tick that can transmit rocky mountain spotted fever and tularemia
tyrannosaur;large carnivorous bipedal dinosaur having enormous teeth with knifelike serrations. may have been a scavenger rather than an active predator. upper cretaceous. north america
desert tortoise;burrowing tortoise of the arid western united states and northern mexico. may be reclassified as a member of genus xerobates
thomson s gazelle;e african gazelle. smallest gazelle
cape forget me not;anchusa of southern africa having blue to red-purple flowers
crepe jasmine;tropical shrub having glossy foliage and fragrant nocturnal flowers with crimped or wavy corollas. northern india to thailand
summer flounder;flounder of eastern coast of north america
baked apple berry;creeping raspberry of north temperate regions with yellow or orange berries
redheaded woodpecker;black-and-white north american woodpecker having a red head and neck
lycium carolinianum;spiny evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having spreading branches usually blue or mauve flowers and red berries
ligustrum ovalifolium;semi-evergreen japanese shrub having malodorous flowers. used extensively for hedges because more likely to stay green that common privet
woolly indris;nocturnal indris with thick gray-brown fur and a long tail
alaska rein orchid;similar to coastal rein orchid but with smaller flowers. alaska to baja california and east to the dakotas and colorado
red pine;pine of eastern north america having long needles in bunches of two and reddish bark
spicemill;a mill for grinding spices
little brown bat;the small common north american bat. widely distributed
ulmus hollandica;any of various hybrid ornamental european shade trees ranging from dwarf to tall
scabious;any of various plants of the genus scabiosa
guard dog;a dog trained to guard property
host;(computer science) a computer that provides client stations with access to files and printers as shared resources to a computer network
man of war;large siphonophore having a bladderlike float and stinging tentacles
cornetfish;slender tropical fish with a long tubular snout and bony plates instead of scales
grugru palm;tropical american feather palm having a swollen spiny trunk and edible nuts
native beech;tall australian timber tree yielding tough hard wood used for staves etc
bighorn;wild sheep of mountainous regions of western north america having massive curled horns
phlomis;any of various plants of the genus phlomis. grown primarily for their dense whorls of lipped flowers and attractive foliage
asperula tinctoria;creeping european perennial having red or pinkish-white flowers and red roots sometimes used as a substitute for madder in dyeing
anseriform bird;chiefly web-footed swimming birds
bromus tectorum;annual or winter annual grass with softly hairy leaves of the mediterranean
oriental roach;dark brown cockroach originally from orient now nearly cosmopolitan in distribution
wild sheep;undomesticated sheep
hard tick;ticks having a hard shield on the back and mouth parts that project from the head
spearmint;common garden herb having clusters of small purplish flowers and yielding an oil used as a flavoring
rosmarinus officinalis;widely cultivated for its fragrant gray-green leaves used in cooking and in perfumery
gleditsia aquatica;honey locust of swamps and bottomlands of southern united states having short oval pods. yields dark heavy wood
bread mold;a mold of the genus rhizopus
maleberry;deciduous much-branched shrub with dense downy panicles of small bell-shaped white flowers
tilletia caries;fungus that destroys kernels of wheat by replacing them with greasy masses of smelly spores
cassia grandis;tropical american semi-evergreen tree having erect racemes of pink or rose-colored flowers. used as an ornamental
setaria italica rubrofructa;millet having orange to reddish grains in long bristly spikes
dog s mercury;european perennial weedy plant with greenish flowers
numbat;small australian marsupial having long snout and strong claws for feeding on termites. nearly extinct
plain turkey;popular australian game bird
scaly polypore;a fungus with a lateral stalk (when there is a stalk) and a scaly cap that becomes nearly black in maturity. widely distributed in the northern hemisphere
nutmeg flower;herb of the mediterranean region having pungent seeds used like those of caraway
thimbleberry;raspberry native to eastern north america having black thimble-shaped fruit
alpine golden chain;an ornamental shrub or tree of the genus laburnum
photoblepharon palpebratus;fish of deep dark waters having a light organ below each eye
lilies of the valley;low-growing perennial plant having usually two large oblong lanceolate leaves and a raceme of small fragrant nodding bell-shaped flowers followed by scarlet berries
papoose root;tall herb of eastern north america and asia having blue berrylike fruit and a thick knotty rootstock formerly used medicinally
manila hemp;philippine plant having leafstalks that yield manila hemp used for rope and paper etc
boletellus russellii;a fungus with a coarsely shaggy-reticulate stalk and rimose-areolate cap surface and a long stalk
cattalo;hardy breed of cattle resulting from crossing domestic cattle with the american buffalo. yields leaner beef than conventional breeds
lactuca sativa longifolia;lettuce with long dark-green spoon-shaped leaves
oregon grape;ornamental evergreen shrub of pacific coast of north america having dark green pinnate leaves and racemes of yellow flowers followed by blue-black berries
wheately elm;a variety of the english elm with erect branches and broader leaves
wax insect;any of various insects that secrete a waxy substance
naja hannah;large cobra of southeastern asia and the east indies. the largest venomous snake. sometimes placed in genus naja
pecan tree;tree of southern united states and mexico cultivated for its nuts
norway rat;common domestic rat. serious pest worldwide
silky willow;north american willow with grayish silky pubescent leaves that usually blacken in drying
kiaat;deciduous south african tree having large odd-pinnate leaves and profuse fragrant orange-yellow flowers. yields a red juice and heavy strong durable wood
leadwort;plant with lead-blue flowers
bog whortleberry;an evergreen shrub with leathery leaves
prunus pumilla susquehanae;small straggling american cherry growing on sandy soil and having minute scarcely edible purplish-black fruit
sialis lutaria;dark-colored insect having predaceous aquatic larvae
carcharhinus leucas;a most common shark in temperate and tropical coastal waters worldwide. heavy-bodied and dangerous
ephemerid;short-lived insect
eucalytus stellulata;small mallee with rough dark-colored bark toward the butt yielding a red eucalyptus kino
mudcat;large catfish of central united states having a flattened head and projecting jaw
mahoe;erect forest tree of cuba and jamaica having variably hairy leaves and orange-yellow or orange-red flowers. yields a moderately dense timber for cabinetwork and gunstocks
giant;any creature of exceptional size
pseudotsuga macrocarpa;douglas fir of california having cones 4-8 inches long
swift;common western lizard. seen on logs or rocks
common lady s slipper;pale pink wild orchid of northeastern america having an inflated pouchlike lip
full moon maple;leaves deeply incised and bright red in autumn. japan
bird cherry tree;any of several small-fruited cherry trees frequented or fed on by birds
stenocarpus sinuatus;eastern australian tree widely cultivated as a shade tree and for its glossy leaves and circular clusters of showy red to orange-scarlet flowers
morone americana;small silvery food and game fish of eastern united states streams
hydrilla verticillata;submersed plant with whorled lanceolate leaves and solitary axillary flowers. old world plant naturalized in southern united states and clogging florida's waterways
cubeb;tropical southeast asian shrubby vine bearing spicy berrylike fruits
giardia;a suspected cause of diarrhea in humans
cacao;seed of the cacao tree. ground roasted beans are source of chocolate
wood swallow;australasian and asiatic bird related to the shrikes and resembling a swallow
scarlet strawberry;north american wild strawberry with sweet scarlet fruit. a source of many cultivated strawberries
peach tree;cultivated in temperate regions
scrub beefwood;tree or tall shrub with shiny leaves and umbels of fragrant creamy-white flowers. yields hard heavy reddish wood
dacrydium cupressinum;tall new zealand timber tree
iris cristata;low-growing summer-flowering iris of northeastern united states
haemulon album;red-mouthed grunt found from florida to brazil
german millet;millet having yellow grains in large drooping spikes
mickey mouse;a fictional mouse created in animated film strips by walt disney
tree frog;any of various old world arboreal frogs distinguished from true frogs by adhesive suckers on the toes
euphorbia fulgens;mexican shrub often cultivated for its scarlet-bracted flowers
aquatic;a plant that lives in or on water
maize;tall annual cereal grass bearing kernels on large ears: widely cultivated in america in many varieties. the principal cereal in mexico and central and south america since pre-columbian times
winter sweet;dwarf aromatic shrub of crete
keurboom;fast-growing round-headed tree with fragrant white to deep rose flowers. planted as an ornamental
chinese cork oak;medium to large deciduous tree of china, japan, and korea having thick corky bark
smoke bush;any of several shrubs or shrubby trees of the genus cotinus
ball nettle;coarse prickly weed having pale yellow flowers and yellow berrylike fruit. common throughout southern and eastern united states
rudbeckia laciniata hortensia;very tall branching herb with showy much-doubled yellow flower heads
hanuman;langur of southern asia. regarded as sacred in india
ibota privet;fast-growing and tightly branched hybrid of ligustrum ovalifolium and ligustrum obtusifolium
gerris lacustris;a variety of water strider
betula nigra;birch of swamps and river bottoms throughout the eastern united states having reddish-brown bark
western kingbird;a kingbird seen in western united states. head and back are pale gray and the breast is yellowish and the tail is black
tetterwort;perennial woodland native of north america having a red root and red sap and bearing a solitary lobed leave and white flower in early spring and having acrid emetic properties. rootstock used as a stimulant and expectorant
telex machine;a printing telegraph that operates like a typewriter
cestum veneris;ctenophore having a ribbon-shaped iridescent gelatinous body
lady s finger;tall coarse annual of old world tropics widely cultivated in southern united states and west indies for its long mucilaginous green pods used as basis for soups and stews. sometimes placed in genus hibiscus
blue marguerite;hairy south african or australian subshrub with blue-rayed daisylike flowers
bloodworm;a segmented marine worm with bright red body. often used for bait
fulica atra;eurasian coot
black whale;large whale with a large cavity in the head containing spermaceti and oil. also a source of ambergris
prunus cerasus;rather small eurasian tree producing red to black acid edible fruit
husky;breed of heavy-coated arctic sled dog
bruckenthalia spiculifolia;small evergreen mat-forming shrub of southern europe and asia minor having stiff stems and terminal clusters of small bell-shaped flowers
meadow jumping mouse;widely distributed in northeastern and central united states and canada
ousel;common black european thrush
dewberry bush;any of several trailing blackberry brambles especially of north america
purple ground cherry;mexican annual naturalized in eastern north america having yellow to purple edible fruit resembling small tomatoes
ku chiku;large bamboo having thick-walled culms. native of china and perhaps japan. widely brown elsewhere
stinging nettle;perennial eurasian nettle established in north america having broad coarsely toothed leaves with copious stinging hairs
vangueria infausta;small deciduous tree of southern africa having edible fruit
needle wood;large bushy shrub with pungent pointed leaves and creamy white flowers. central and eastern australia
heartleaf arnica;wildflower with heart-shaped leaves and broad yellow flower heads. of alpine areas west of the rockies from alaska to southern california
february daphne;small european deciduous shrub with fragrant lilac-colored flowers followed by red berries on highly toxic twigs
wild geranium;common wild geranium of eastern north america with deeply parted leaves and rose-purple flowers
texas bluebonnet;low-growing annual herb of southwestern united states (texas) having silky foliage and blue flowers
broadbill;freshwater duck of the northern hemisphere having a broad flat bill
senecio vulgaris;eurasian weed with heads of small yellow flowers
european silver fir;tall timber tree of central and southern europe having a regular crown and gray bark
kentucky coffee tree;handsome tree of central and eastern north america having large bipinnate leaves and green-white flowers followed by large woody brown pods whose seeds are used as a coffee substitute
coloradillo;handsome shrub with showy orange to scarlet or crimson flowers. florida and west indies to mexico and brazil
western wheatgrass;valuable forage grass of western united states
tripleurospermum tchihatchewii;low densely tufted perennial herb of turkey having small white flowers. used as a ground cover in dry places. sometimes included in genus matricaria
norfolk terrier;english breed of small terrier with a straight wiry red-and-black-and-tan or grizzled coat and dropped ears
barnaby s thistle;european weed having a winged stem and hairy leaves. adventive in the eastern united states
asclepias speciosa;milkweed of southern north america having large starry purple-pink flowers
poison bush;any of various australian evergreen shrubs of the genus gastrolobium having whorled compound leaves poisonous to livestock and showy yellow to deep reddish-orange flowers followed by two-seeded pods
levant garlic;coarse old world perennial having a large bulb and tall stalk of greenish purple-tinged flowers. widely naturalized
baldpate;american widgeon the male of which has a white crown
croaker;any of several fishes that make a croaking noise
ibis ibis;old world wood ibis
ayapana triplinervis;low spreading tropical american shrub with long slender leaves used to make a mildly stimulating drink resembling tea. sometimes placed in genus eupatorium
mentha arvensis;european mint naturalized in united states
taira;long-tailed arboreal mustelid of central and south america
scopolia carniolica;a source of scopolomine
castanea crenata;spreading short-trunked tree of japan
pine vole;short-tailed glossy-furred burrowing vole of the eastern united states
entozoa;any of various parasites that live in the internal organs of animals (especially intestinal worms)
eft;a newt in its terrestrial stage of development
hoactzin;crested ill-smelling south american bird whose young have claws on the first and second digits of the wings
acellular slime mold;a slime mold of the class myxomycetes
cinnamon;tropical asian tree with aromatic yellowish-brown bark. source of the spice cinnamon
small cane;small cane of watery or moist areas in southern united states
steller s sea lion;largest sea lion. of the north pacific
rhodesian man;a primitive hominid resembling neanderthal man but living in africa
drynaria rigidula;giant epiphytic or lithophytic fern. asia to polynesia and australia
carduus nutans;eurasian perennial naturalized in eastern north america having very spiny white cottony foliage and nodding musky crimson flower heads. valuable source of nectar
labrador tea;evergreen shrub of eastern north america having white or creamy bell-shaped flowers and dark green hairy leaves used for tea during american revolution
hairy lip fern;small north american evergreen fern whose stipes and lower frond surfaces are densely wooly
bear s breech;widely cultivated southern european acanthus with whitish purple-veined flowers
limenitis astyanax;similar to the banded purple but with red spots on underwing surfaces
crab eating seal;silvery gray antarctic seal subsisting on crustaceans
harding grass;perennial grass of australia and south africa. introduced in north america as forage grass
sweet unicorn plant;a herbaceous plant of the genus proboscidea
balata;a hard-wooded tropical tree yielding balata gum and heavy red timber
centaury;any plant of the genus centaurea
christmas star;tropical american plant having poisonous milk and showy tapering usually scarlet petallike leaves surrounding small yellow flowers
anthurium andraeanum;commonly cultivated anthurium having bright scarlet spathe and spadix
tang;common black rockweed used in preparing kelp and as manure
digger;a machine for excavating
protistan;free-living or colonial organisms with diverse nutritional and reproductive modes
beggar lice;any of various tropical and subtropical plants having trifoliate leaves and rough sticky pod sections or loments
melampodium leucanthum;bushy subshrub having flower heads that resemble asters with broad white rays. found in desert areas of arizona east to kansas and south to mexico
wild cinnamon;west indian tree. source of bay rum
tussock caterpillar;larva of a tussock moth
bog asphodel;either of two herbaceous rushlike bog plants having small yellow flowers and grasslike leaves. north temperate regions
knotted marjoram;aromatic european plant native to mediterranean and turkey. not widespread in europe
rhagoletis pomonella;larvae bore into and feed on apples
gold crowned kinglet;american golden-crested kinglet
toitoi;used by maoris for thatching
oregon larch;tall larch of western north america have pale green sharply pointed leaves and oblong cones. an important timber tree
frogfish;fish having a frog-like mouth with a lure on the snout
isopyrum biternatum;slender erect perennial of eastern north america having tuberous roots and pink-tinged white flowers. resembles meadow rue
hatiora gaertneri;spring-blooming south american cactus with oblong joints and coral-red flowers. sometimes placed in genus schlumbergera
lepomis macrochirus;important edible sunfish of eastern and central united states
sago fern;showy tree fern of new zealand and australia area having a crown of much-pinnated fronds with whitish undersides
citroncirus webberi;more aromatic and acidic than oranges
sweet wormwood;wormwood of southeastern europe to iran
basset;smooth-haired breed of hound with short legs and long ears
book scorpion;minute arachnid sometimes found in old papers
eoraptor;a theropod dinosaur of the genus eoraptor
flowering spurge;common perennial united states spurge having showy white petallike bracts
physeter catodon;large whale with a large cavity in the head containing spermaceti and oil. also a source of ambergris
english primrose;plant of western and southern europe widely cultivated for its pale yellow flowers
clinopodium vulgare;aromatic herb having heads of small pink or whitish flowers. widely distributed in united states, europe and asia
bearberry willow;dwarf prostrate mat-forming shrub of arctic and alpine regions of north america and greenland having deep green elliptic leaves that taper toward the base
florist s gloxinia;south american herb cultivated in many varieties as a houseplant for its large handsome leaves and large variously colored bell-shaped flowers
fall armyworm;larva of a migratory american noctuid moth. destroys grasses and small grains
water sprite;aquatic fern of tropical america often used in aquariums
pc;a small computer based on a microprocessor
monarda punctata;tall erect perennial or annual having lanceolate leaves and heads of purple-spotted creamy flowers. many subspecies grown from eastern to southwestern united states and in mexico
sand leek;european leek cultivated and used like leeks
domestic pigeon;domesticated pigeon raised for sport or food
creeping spike rush;cylendrical-stemmed sedge
muttonfish;similar to and often marketed as 'red snapper'
green adder s mouth;north american orchid having a solitary leaf and flowers with threadlike petals
arctocebus calabarensis;a kind of lemur
kingfisher daisy;softly hairy south african herb having flowers with bright blue rays
peacock flower;showy tropical tree or shrub native to madagascar. widely planted in tropical regions for its immense racemes of scarlet and orange flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
gladdon;iris with purple flowers and evil-smelling leaves. southern and western europe and north africa
ocellated turkey;wild turkey of central and northern south america
griffon;large vulture of southern europe and northern africa having pale plumage with black wings
irvingia gabonensis;african tree with edible yellow mangolike fruit valued for its oil-rich seed and hardy green termite-resistant wood
arizona sycamore;medium-sized tree of arizona and adjacent regions having deeply lobed leaves and collective fruits in groups of 3 to 5
colorado potato beetle;black-and-yellow beetle that feeds in adult and larval stages on potato leaves. originally of eastern rocky mountains. now worldwide
pseudemys concinna;large river turtle of the southern united states and northern mexico
field pea plant;variety of pea plant native to the mediterranean region and north africa and widely grown especially for forage
pole horse;the horse having a starting position next to the inside rail in a harness race
brake;any of various ferns of the genus pteris having pinnately compound leaves and including several popular houseplants
lucerne;important european leguminous forage plant with trifoliate leaves and blue-violet flowers grown widely as a pasture and hay crop
siamese cat;a slender short-haired blue-eyed breed of cat having a pale coat with dark ears paws face and tail tip
prairie mallow;false mallow of western united states having racemose red flowers. sometimes placed in genus malvastrum
pummelo;southeastern asian tree producing large fruits resembling grapefruits
alleghany plum;wild plum of northeastern united states having dark purple fruits with yellow flesh
tailed frog;western north american frog with a tail-like copulatory organ
indigo bird;small deep blue north american bunting
common horsetail;of eurasia and greenland and north america
rubus flagellaris;of eastern north america
immortelle;mostly widely cultivated species of everlasting flowers having usually purple flowers. southern europe to iran. naturalized elsewhere
aristotelia serrata;graceful deciduous shrub or small tree having attractive foliage and small red berries that turn black at maturity and are used for making wine
dianthus supurbus;eurasian perennial pink having fragrant lilac or rose flowers with deeply fringed margins
gynura aurantiaca;javanese foliage plant grown for their handsome velvety leaves with violet-purple hairs
dipsacus fullonum;teasel with lilac flowers native to old world but naturalized in north america. dried flower heads used to raise a nap on woolen cloth
serow;short-horned dark-coated goat antelope of mountain areas of south and southeast asia
dominick;american breed of chicken having barred gray plumage raised for meat and brown eggs
american persimmon;medium-sized tree of dry woodlands in the southern and eastern united states bearing yellow or orange very astringent fruit that is edible when fully ripe
grains of paradise;west african plant bearing pungent peppery seeds
stapler;a machine that inserts stales into sheets of paper in order to fasten them together
periploca graeca;deciduous climber for arches and fences having ill-scented but interesting flowers and poisonous yellow fruits. cultivated for its dark shining foliage. southeastern europe to asia minor
circular saw;a saw that has a steel disk with cutting teeth on the periphery. rotates on a spindle
halocarpus bidwilli;new zealand shrub
callistephus chinensis;valued for their beautiful flowers in a wide range of clear bright colors. grown primarily for cutting
star anise;small tree of china and vietnam bearing anise-scented star-shaped fruit used in food and medicinally as a carminative
menopon palladum;parasitic on poultry
false deathcap;agaric often confused with the death cup
pussy s paw;pink clusters of densely packed flowers on prostrate stems resemble upturned pads of cats' feet. grow in coniferous forests of western north america. sometimes placed in genus calyptridium
plasmodium;parasitic protozoan of the genus plasmodium that causes malaria in humans
white sage;perennial cottony-white herb of southwestern united states
indian chickweed;annual prostrate mat-forming weed having whorled leaves and small greenish-white flowers. widespread throughout north america
hylocichla fuscescens;tawny brown north american thrush noted for its song
cattle;domesticated bovine animals as a group regardless of sex or age: 'so many head of cattle'. 'wait till the cows come home'. 'seven thin and ill-favored kine'- bible. 'a team of oxen'
urocystis cepulae;smut fungus causing blackish blisters on scales and leaves of onions. especially destructive to seedlings
water lobelia;erect perennial aquatic herb of europe and north america having submerged spongy leaves and pendulous racemes of blue flowers above the water
orange bat;a common bat of northwestern australia having orange or yellow fur
ohio goldenrod;a variety of goldenrod
devil s flax;common european perennial having showy yellow and orange flowers. a naturalized weed in north america
neritid;operculate seasnail of coastal waters with a short spiral shell
crown of thorns;somewhat climbing bushy spurge of madagascar having long woody spiny stems with few leaves and flowers with scarlet bracts
leaf insect;tropical insect having a flattened leaflike body. common in southern asia and the east indies
hornwort;any aquatic plant of the genus ceratophyllum. forms submerged masses in ponds and slow-flowing streams
ceratodus;extinct lungfish
bluebird;fruit-eating mostly brilliant blue songbird of the east indies
capros aper;fish with a projecting snout
seabeach sandwort;perennial succulent herb with small solitary axillary or terminal flowers
brown thrasher;common large songbird of eastern united states having reddish-brown plumage
power hammer;a power tool for drilling rocks
hedge maple;shrubby eurasian maple often used as a hedge
virginian sumac;deciduous shrubby tree or eastern north america with compound leaves that turn brilliant red in fall and dense panicles of greenish yellow flowers followed by crimson acidic berries
lolium temulentum;weedy annual grass often occurs in grainfields and other cultivated land. seeds sometimes considered poisonous
harness horse;horse used for pulling vehicles
filago;any plant of the genus filago having capitate clusters of small woolly flower heads
mountain chinchilla;a rodent native to the mountains of chile and peru and now bred in captivity
scutch grass;trailing grass native to europe now cosmopolitan in warm regions. used for lawns and pastures especially in southern united states and india
virginia deer;common north american deer. tail has a white underside
cowpea;sprawling old world annual cultivated especially in southern united states for food and forage and green manure
little ebony spleenwort;fern of tropical america: from southern united states to west indies and mexico to brazil
pholiota astragalina;a fungus with a smooth orange cap and yellow gills and pale yellow stalk
white pepper;climber having dark red berries (peppercorns) when fully ripe. southern india and sri lanka. naturalized in north burma and assam
bladder ketmia;annual weedy herb with ephemeral yellow purple-eyed flowers. old world tropics. naturalized as a weed in north america
little barley;annual barley native to western north america and widespread in southern united states and tropical america
star earthball;an earthball with a smooth upper surface that is at first buried in sand. the top of the fruiting body opens up to form raylike segments
lipfern;any of various terrestrial ferns of the genus cheilanthes. cosmopolitan in arid and semi-arid temperate or tropical regions
cestrum diurnum;west indian evergreen shrub having clusters of funnel-shaped white flowers that are fragrant by day
lama peruana;used in the andes as a beast of burden and source of wool. considered a domesticated variety of the guanaco
broad leaved goldenrod;a variety of goldenrod
schinus terebinthifolius;small brazilian evergreen resinous tree or shrub having dark green leaflets and white flowers followed by bright red fruit. used as a street tree and lawn specimen
prunus avium;large eurasian tree producing small dark bitter fruit in the wild but edible sweet fruit under cultivation
crab apple;any of numerous varieties of crab apples cultivated for their small acid usually bright-red fruit used for preserving or as ornamentals for their blossoms
milo;small drought-resistant sorghums having large yellow or whitish grains
erect bugle;upright rhizomatous perennial with bright blue flowers. southern europe
andrew s clintonia;plant with nearly leafless stalk topped by an umbel-like cluster of red or reddish_lavender flowers. california to oregon
scissortail;gray flycatcher of the southwestern united states and mexico and central america having a long forked tail and white breast and salmon and scarlet markings
panicum capillare;north american grass with slender brushy panicles. often a weed on cultivated land
bidens tripartita;of temperate eurasia
totaliser;performs simple arithmetic functions
salvinia auriculata;free-floating aquatic ferns
granadilla;brazilian passionflower cultivated for its deep purple fruit
taipan;large highly venomous snake of northeastern australia
equisetum hyemale robustum;evergreen erect horsetail with rough-edged stems. formerly used for scouring utensils
bartramian sandpiper;large plover-like sandpiper of north american fields and uplands
black morel;a morel whose pitted fertile body is attached to the stalk with little free skirt around it. the fertile body is gray when young and black in old age
barnyard grass;a coarse annual panic grass. a cosmopolitan weed. occasionally used for hay or grazing
salmonella;rod-shaped gram-negative enterobacteria. cause typhoid fever and food poisoning
false foxglove;multi-stemmed north american annual having solitary axillary dark golden-yellow flowers resembling those of the foxglove. sometimes placed in genus gerardia
haematoxylum campechianum;spiny shrub or small tree of central america and west indies having bipinnate leaves and racemes of small bright yellow flowers and yielding a hard brown or brownish-red heartwood used in preparing a black dye
japanese millet;coarse annual grass cultivated in japan and southeastern asia for its edible seeds and for forage. important wildlife food in united states
rubia cordifolia;perennial east indian creeping or climbing herb used for dye in the orient
common elder;common black-fruited shrub or small tree of europe and asia. fruit used for wines and jellies
american foxhound;an american breed of foxhounds used for hunting both in packs and individually
sockeye;small red-fleshed salmon of rivers and tributaries of the north pacific valued as food. adults die after spawning
costia necatrix;a flagellate that is the cause of the frequently fatal fish disease costiasis
conenose bug;large bloodsucking bug
ursus ursinus;common coarse-haired long-snouted bear of south-central asia
stablemate;a horse stabled with another or one of several horses owned by the same person
brittle star;an animal resembling a starfish with fragile whiplike arms radiating from a small central disc
actaea rubra;north american perennial herb with ternately compound leaves and racemes of small white flowers followed by bright red oval poisonous berries
saccharomyces cerevisiae;used as a leaven in baking and brewing
hay scented;fern of eastern north america with pale green fronds and hay-like aroma
cygnus olor;soundless eurasian swan. commonly domesticated
courbaril;west indian locust tree having pinnate leaves and panicles of large white or purplish flowers. yields very hard tough wood
aphis fabae;blackish aphid that infests e.g. beans and sugar beets
silver fir;any of various true firs having leaves white or silvery white beneath
betula neoalaskana;alaskan birch with white to pale brown bark
chinese parasol tree;deciduous tree widely grown in southern united states as an ornamental for its handsome maplelike foliage and long racemes of yellow-green flowers followed by curious leaflike pods
cirsium eriophorum;woolly thistle of western and central europe and balkan peninsula
alpinia galanga;southeastern asian perennial with aromatic roots
whiting;found off atlantic coast of north america
nasua narica;omnivorous mammal of central and south america
smew;smallest merganser and most expert diver. found in northern eurasia
daisyleaf grape fern;of north america and eurasia
wild leek;north american perennial having a slender bulb and whitish flowers
grizzly;powerful brownish-yellow bear of the uplands of western north america
scavenger;any animal that feeds on refuse and other decaying organic matter
lent lily;lily of eastern mediterranean and the balkans with broad funnel-shaped white flowers
bignonia capreolata;woody flowering vine of southern united states. stems show a cross in transverse section
bean caper;perennial shrub of the eastern mediterranean region and southwestern asia having flowers whose buds are used as capers
musteline;fissiped fur-bearing carnivorous mammals
painted daisy;spring-flowering garden perennial of asiatic origin having finely divided aromatic leaves and white to pink-purple flowers. source of an insecticide. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
great knapweed;tall european perennial having purple flower heads
ivory gull;white arctic gull. migrates as far south as england and new brunswick
geum rivale;erect perennial of north temperate zone having pinnate leaves and few nodding flowers with brown-purple calyx and orange-pink petals
bittersweet;twining shrub of north america having three-valved yellow capsules enclosing scarlet seeds
tigress;a female tiger
cape forget me not;anchusa of southern africa having blue flowers with white throats
totalizator;registers bets and divides the total amount bet among those who won
moreton bay tulipwood;australian tree yielding a variegated tulipwood
hognosed skunk;large naked-muzzled skunk with white back and tail. of southwestern north america and mexico
brodiaea elegans;brodiaea having an umbel of violet or blue-violet flowers atop a leafless stalk. northern oregon to southern california
mirabilis jalapa;common garden plant of north america having fragrant red or purple or yellow or white flowers that open in late afternoon
sabal palmetto;low-growing fan-leaved palm of coastal southern united states having edible leaf buds
borassus flabellifer;tall fan palm of africa and india and malaysia yielding a hard wood and sweet sap that is a source of palm wine and sugar. leaves used for thatching and weaving
aspidelaps lubricus;small widely distributed arboreal snake of southern africa banded in black and orange
predatory animal;any animal that lives by preying on other animals
beaked whale;any of several whales inhabiting all oceans and having beaklike jaws with vestigial teeth in the upper jaw
air hammer;a hammer driven by compressed air
water deer;largest chevrotain. of marshy areas of west africa
pixie;creeping evergreen shrub having narrow overlapping leaves and early white star-shaped flowers. of pine barrens of nj and the carolinas
brookweed;water pimpernel of europe to china
crown of the field;european annual having large trumpet-shaped reddish-purple flowers and poisonous seed. a common weed in grainfields and beside roadways. naturalized in america
aster linosyris;early-flowering perennial of southern and southeastern europe with flower heads resembling those of goldenrod
buffalo nut;shrub of southeasternuni ted states parasitic on roots of hemlocks having sparse spikes of greenish flowers and pulpy drupes
fraxinus latifolia;timber tree of western north america yielding hard light wood. closely related to the red ash
black bass;widely distributed and highly prized american freshwater game fishes (sunfish family)
frog orchid;orchid having hooded long-bracted green to yellow-green flowers suffused with purple
tetragonia tetragonioides;coarse sprawling australasian plant with red or yellow flowers. cultivated for its edible young shoots and succulent leaves
western white pine;tall pine of western north america with stout blue-green needles. bark is gray-brown with rectangular plates when mature
bronco;an unbroken or imperfectly broken mustang
shittah tree;source of a wood mentioned frequently in the bible. probably a species of acacia
passiflora ligularis;considered best for fruit
cornus obliqua;shrub of eastern north america closely resembling silky cornel
wilde dagga;relatively nontoxic south african herb smoked like tobacco
bivalve;marine or freshwater mollusks having a soft body with platelike gills enclosed within two shells hinged together
devil s turnip;white-flowered vine having thick roots and bearing small black berries. europe to iran
saprophytic organism;an organism that feeds on dead organic matter especially a fungus or bacterium
filaria;european weed naturalized in southwestern united states and mexico having reddish decumbent stems with small fernlike leaves and small deep reddish-lavender flowers followed by slender pinlike fruits that stick straight up. often grown for forage
dwarf chinkapin oak;deciduous shrubby tree of northeastern and central united states having a sweet edible nut and often forming dense thickets
engine;converts thermal energy to mechanical work
jamaica bayberry;west indian tree. source of bay rum
jenny ass;female donkey
old world buffalo;any of several old world animals resembling oxen including, e.g., water buffalo. cape buffalo
wax palm;south american palm yielding a wax similar to carnauba wax
actinia;any sea anemone or related animal
prunus virginiana demissa;chokecherry of western united states
billfish;slender long-beaked fish of temperate atlantic waters
nut leaved screw tree;east indian shrub often cultivated for its hairy leaves and orange-red flowers
hair seal;any of several seals lacking external ear flaps and having a stiff hairlike coat with hind limbs reduced to swimming flippers
pinot noir;red wine grape. grown especially in california for making burgundy-type wines
thryothorus ludovicianus;large united states wren with a musical call
rose bay;an ornamental but poisonous flowering shrub having narrow evergreen leaves and clusters of fragrant white to pink or red flowers: native to east indies but widely cultivated in warm regions
lemon lily;a day lily with yellow flowers
common morning glory;annual or perennial climbing herb of central america having sky-blue flowers. most commonly cultivated morning glory
sea otter;large marine otter of northern pacific coasts having very thick dark brown fur
house wren;common american wren that nests around houses
tetrao urogallus;large black old world grouse
three seeded mercury;weedy herb of eastern north america
ailanthus;any of several deciduous asian trees of the genus ailanthus
leopard lily;garden plant whose capsule discloses when ripe a mass of seeds resembling a blackberry
catalina cherry;evergreen shrub or small tree found on catalina island (california)
nucifraga caryocatactes;old world nutcracker
australian stilt;long-legged three-toed wading bird of brackish marshes of australia
blue grama;of western north america
proturan;any of several minute primitive wingless and eyeless insects having a cone-shaped head. inhabit damp soil or decaying organic matter
sanicle;a plant of the genus sanicula having palmately compound leaves and unisexual flowers in panicled umbels followed by bristly fruit. reputed to have healing powers
pine tree;a coniferous tree
bladder cherry;old world perennial cultivated for its ornamental inflated papery orange-red calyx
fragrant sumac;sweet-scented sumac of eastern america having ternate leaves and yellowish-green flowers in spikes resembling catkins followed by red hairy fruits
dyer s weed;eastern north american herb whose yellow flowers are (or were) used in dyeing
blackfish;large dark-colored food fish of the atlantic coast of north america
gumbo;tall coarse annual of old world tropics widely cultivated in southern united states and west indies for its long mucilaginous green pods used as basis for soups and stews. sometimes placed in genus hibiscus
musa paradisiaca sapientum;widely cultivated species of banana trees bearing compact hanging clusters of commercially important edible yellow fruit
wonder bean;annual semierect bushy plant of tropical south america bearing long pods with white seeds grown especially for forage
american green toad;small green or yellow-green toad with small black bars and stripes
durham;english breed of short-horned cattle
umbrella plant;african sedge widely cultivated as an ornamental water plant for its terminal umbrellalike cluster of slender grasslike leaves
broad buckler fern;european shield fern
poorwill;goatsucker of western north america
long billed marsh wren;american wren that inhabits tall reed beds
bluehead;small atlantic wrasse the male of which has a brilliant blue head
beluga;valuable source of caviar and isinglass. found in black and caspian seas
grass wrack;submerged marine plant with very long narrow leaves found in abundance along north atlantic coasts
colchicum autumnale;bulbous autumn-flowering herb with white, purple or lavender-and-white flowers. native to western and central europe
olive ridley;olive-colored sea turtle of tropical pacific and indian and south atlantic oceans
storeria occipitamaculata;harmless woodland snake of southeastern united states
conyza canadensis;common north american weed with linear leaves and small discoid heads of yellowish flowers. widely naturalized throughout temperate regions. sometimes placed in genus erigeron
american staffordshire terrier;american breed of muscular terriers with a short close-lying stiff coat
fiddlehead;tall fern of northern temperate regions having graceful arched fronds and sporophylls resembling ostrich plumes
quercus ilicifolia;shrubby oak of southeastern united states usually forming dense thickets
dyer s broom;small eurasian shrub having clusters of yellow flowers that yield a dye. common as weed in england and united states. sometimes grown as an ornamental
amphidiploid;(genetics)an organism having a diploid set of chromosomes from each parent
parascalops breweri;mole of eastern north america
sockeye salmon;small red-fleshed salmon of rivers and tributaries of the north pacific valued as food. adults die after spawning
european curlew;common eurasian curlew
biddy;young bird esp. of domestic fowl
western prince s pine;eurasian herb with white or pinkish flowers in a terminal corymb
violet wood sorrel;perennial herb of eastern north america with palmately compound leaves and usually rose-purple flowers
microbat;typically having large ears and feeding primarily on insects. worldwide in distribution
eugenia uniflora;brazilian tree with spicy red fruit. often cultivated in california and florida
fratercula arctica;common puffin of the north atlantic
bay;a horse of a moderate reddish-brown color
spartina cynosuroides;tall reedlike grass common in salt meadows
crocodile;large voracious aquatic reptile having a long snout with massive jaws and a body covered with bony plates. of sluggish tropical waters
sea onion;european scilla with small blue or purple flowers
parthenium argentatum;much-branched subshrub with silvery leaves and small white flowers of texas and northern mexico. cultivated as a source of rubber
vaccinium pallidum;low deciduous shrub of the eastern united states bearing dark blue sweet berries
sambucus racemosa;eurasian shrub
sensitive fern;beautiful spreading fern of eastern north america and eastern asia naturalized in western europe. pinnately divided fronds show a slight tendency to fold when touched. pinnules enclose groups of sori in beadlike lobes
moorhen;black gallinule that inhabits ponds and lakes
garden balm;bushy perennial old world mint having small white or yellowish flowers and fragrant lemon-flavored leaves. a garden escapee in northern europe and north america
ascomycete;any fungus of the class ascomycetes (or subdivision ascomycota) in which the spores are formed inside an ascus
brown lacewing;small dark-colored lacewing fly
opossum;small furry australian arboreal marsupials having long usually prehensile tails
california bluebell;annual of southern california with intricately branched stems and lax cymes of aromatic deep blue bell-shaped flowers
scup;found in atlantic coastal waters of north america from south carolina to maine. esteemed as a panfish
algae;primitive chlorophyll-containing mainly aquatic eukaryotic organisms lacking true stems and roots and leaves
gypsophila paniculata;tall plant with small lance-shaped leaves and numerous tiny white or pink flowers
dodder;a leafless annual parasitic vine of the genus cuscuta having whitish or yellow filamentous stems. obtain nourishment through haustoria
rambutan;malayan tree bearing spiny red fruit
calophyllum candidissimum;tropical american tree. valued for its hard durable wood
daffodil garlic;european onion with white flowers
cape marigold;any of several south african plants grown for the profusion of usually yellow daisylike flowers and mounds of aromatic foliage
mitrewort;any of various rhizomatous perennial herbs of the genus mitella having a capsule resembling a bishop's miter
lycopodium obscurum;a variety of clubmoss
spiranthes porrifolia;similar to spiranthes romanzoffiana.states
carphophis amoenus;small reddish wormlike snake of eastern united states
muscivora forficata;gray flycatcher of the southwestern united states and mexico and central america having a long forked tail and white breast and salmon and scarlet markings
chlorophyte;algae that are clear green in color. often growing on wet ricks or damp wood or the surface of stagnant water
mycobacterium tuberculosis;cause of tuberculosis
schizophragma hydrangeoides;climbing shrub with adhesive aerial roots having opposite leaves and small white flowers in terminal cymes. himalaya to taiwan and japan
leonotis leonurus;relatively nontoxic south african herb smoked like tobacco
dwarf hulsea;similar to but smaller than alpine hulsea
edaphosaurus;heavy-bodied reptile with a dorsal sail or crest. of the late paleozoic
lingberry;low evergreen shrub of high north temperate regions of europe and asia and america bearing red edible berries
ringtail;north american raccoon
lepiota rubrotincta;an agaric with a relatively small pink to red cap and white gills and stalk
alexander;european herb somewhat resembling celery widely naturalized in britain coastal regions and often cultivated as a potherb
pigeon;wild and domesticated birds having a heavy body and short legs
love in winter;eurasian herb with white or pinkish flowers in a terminal corymb
penstemon cyananthus;erect plant with blue-violet flowers in rings near tips of stems. idaho to utah and wyoming
white melilot;biennial plant. valuable honey plant
caterpillar;a wormlike and often brightly colored and hairy or spiny larva of a butterfly or moth
proboscidian;massive herbivorous mammals having tusks and a long trunk
woodcock snipe;old world snipe larger and darker than the whole snipe
erythrina lysistemon;small semi-evergreen of south africa having dense clusters of clear scarlet flowers and red seeds
columbia tiger lily;lily of western north america with showy orange-red purple-spotted flowers
quercus variabilis;medium to large deciduous tree of china, japan, and korea having thick corky bark
mycobacterium;rod-shaped bacteria some saprophytic or causing diseases
wax plant;succulent climber of southern asia with umbels of pink and white star-shaped flowers
tobacco;north american perennial propagated by means of runners
giant stock bean;annual semierect bushy plant of tropical south america bearing long pods with white seeds grown especially for forage
vulpes fulva;new world fox. often considered the same species las the old world fox
blue skullcap;an american mint that yields a resinous exudate used especially formerly as an antispasmodic
wistaria;any flowering vine of the genus wisteria
predator;any animal that lives by preying on other animals
thrasher;thrush-like american songbird able to mimic other birdsongs
madder;eurasian herb having small yellow flowers and red roots formerly an important source of the dye alizarin
balsa;forest tree of lowland central america having a strong very light wood. used for making floats and rafts and in crafts
new zealand wine berry;graceful deciduous shrub or small tree having attractive foliage and small red berries that turn black at maturity and are used for making wine
boletus zelleri;an edible and choice fungus that has a brown cap with greenish yellow under surface and a stalk that become dull red with age
wandflower;tufted evergreen perennial herb having spikes of tiny white flowers and glossy green round to heart-shaped leaves that become coppery to maroon or purplish in fall
toy manchester terrier;breed of small manchester terrier
northern casque headed frog;terrestrial burrowing nocturnal frog of grassy terrain and scrub forests having very hard upper surface of head. of the united states southwest
shun giku;grown for its succulent edible leaves used in oriental cooking
andromeda;broad-leaved evergreen asiatic shrub with glossy leaves and drooping clusters of white flowers
caper tree;shrub or small tree of southern florida to central and south america
kauri pine;any of various trees of the genus agathis. yield dammar resin
athene noctua;small european owl
viorna baldwinii;erect clematis of florida having pink to purple flowers. sometimes placed in genus viorna
yellow hawkweed;european hawkweed introduced into northeastern united states. locally troublesome weeds
briefcase computer;a portable computer housed in a box that resembles a briefcase
parula warbler;small gray-blue wood warbler with yellow throat and breast. of eastern north america
cypress spurge;old world perennial having cypress-like foliage naturalized as a weed in united states
wood mouse;any of various new world woodland mice
black hickory;north american walnut tree with hard dark wood and edible nut
hyrax;any of several small ungulate mammals of africa and asia with rodent-like incisors and feet with hooflike toes
satureja nepeta;low-growing strongly aromatic perennial herb of southern europe to gb naturalized in united states
australian reed grass;tall australian reedlike grass sometimes used for hay
quercus prinoides;deciduous shrubby tree of northeastern and central united states having a sweet edible nut and often forming dense thickets
centaurea moschata;asian plant widely grown for its sweetly fragrant pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus centaurea
american red plum;wild plum trees of eastern and central north america having red-orange fruit with yellow flesh
plum yew;any of several yewlike evergreen trees and shrubs of eastern asia having large seeds enclosed in a fleshy envelope. sometimes cultivated as ornamentals
boarfish;long-snouted fishes with large eyes
myrrh tree;tree of eastern africa and asia yielding myrrh
turtledove;any of several old world wild doves
synchytrium endobioticum;fungus causing potato wart disease in potato tubers
allamanda cathartica;vigorous evergreen climbing plant of south america having glossy leathery foliage and golden yellow flowers
pneumatic hammer;a hammer driven by compressed air
clitocybe clavipes;an agaric with a flat cap that is grayish or yellowish brown with pallid gills and a stalk that bulges toward the base
dibranch;cephalopods having two gills
crab cactus;south american jointed cactus with usually red flowers. often cultivated as a houseplant. sometimes classified as genus schlumbergera
catasetum macrocarpum;orchid having both male and female flowers in the same raceme. when a sensitive projection at the base of the column of the male flower is touched the pollen is suddenly ejected
rosa laevigata;chinese climbing rose with fragrant white blossoms
deinocheirus;lightly built medium-sized theropod with long limbs and neck
bishop s hat;slow-growing creeping plant with semi-evergreen leaves on erect wiry stems. used as ground cover
wolffia columbiana;smallest flowering plants known. of the americas
red cedar;tall tree of north american pacific coast having cypress-like foliage and cinnamon-red bark
clustered lady s slipper;clusters of several short stems each having 2 broad leaves and 2-4 drooping brownish to greenish flowers with pouches mottled with purple. british columbia to central california and northern colorado
elaphure;large chinese deer surviving only in domesticated herds
pellitory;small mediterranean plant containing a volatile oil once used to relieve toothache
geranium viscosissimum;geranium of western north america having pinkish-purple flowers in open clusters
homona coffearia;small indian moth infesting e.g. tea and coffee plants
celastrus scandens;twining shrub of north america having three-valved yellow capsules enclosing scarlet seeds
guevina heterophylla;chilean shrub bearing coral-red fruit with an edible seed resembling a hazelnut
ivorybill;large black-and-white woodpecker of southern united states and cuba having an ivory bill. nearly extinct
printing machine;a machine that prints
megatheriid;a large extinct ground sloth
haemanthus coccineus;spectacular plant having large prostrate leaves barred in reddish-purple and flowers with a clump of long yellow stamens in a coral-red cup of fleshy bracts. south africa
ocelot;nocturnal wildcat of central and south america having a dark-spotted buff-brown coat
headfish;among the largest bony fish. pelagic fish having an oval compressed body with high dorsal and anal fins and caudal fin reduced to a rudder-like lobe. worldwide in warm waters
stingaree bush;spiny evergreen xerophytic shrub having showy rose-purple flowers and forming dense thickets. of dry rocky mountain slopes of california
skipjack;able to right itself when on its back by flipping into the air with a clicking sound
dwarf cornel;creeping red-berried perennial herb distinguished by clustered leaf whorls at tips of shoots. greenland to alaska
ramee;tall perennial herb of tropical asia with dark green leaves. cultivated for flax-like fiber from its woody stems
puffball;any of various fungi of the family lycoperdaceae whose round fruiting body discharges a cloud of spores when mature
penstemon fruticosus;low bushy plant with large showy pale lavender or blue-violet flowers in narrow clusters at ends of stems
opium poppy;southwestern asian herb with grayish leaves and white or reddish flowers. source of opium
biting midge;minute two-winged insect that sucks the blood of mammals and birds and other insects
blue pointed;common blue-gray shark of southwest pacific. sport and food fish
nagami kumquat;shrub bearing oval-fruited kumquats
honey mesquite;thorny deep-rooted drought-resistant shrub native to southwestern united states and mexico bearing pods rich in sugar and important as livestock feed. tends to form extensive thickets
chokecherry;a common wild cherry of eastern north america having small bitter black berries favored by birds
serial printer;a printer that prints a single character at a time
black cottonwood;cottonwood of western north america with dark green leaves shining above and rusty or silvery beneath
python variegatus;australian python with a variegated pattern on its back
alpine clubmoss;a variety of clubmoss
pleurisy root;erect perennial of eastern and southern united states having showy orange flowers
mountain ash;any of various trees of the genus sorbus
american red elder;common north american shrub or small tree
lesser burdock;ubiquitous in all but very acid soil. most of europe (except arctic caucasus) and north africa
plantain tree;a banana tree bearing hanging clusters of edible angular greenish starchy fruits. tropics and subtropics
oldwife;a common long-tailed sea duck of the northern parts of the united states
fan palm;palm having palmate or fan-shaped leaves
tarweed;any of various resinous glandular plants of the genus madia. of western north and south america
dove s foot geranium;western geranium with small pink flowers. a common weed on lawns and in vacant lots
syrian bean caper;perennial shrub of the eastern mediterranean region and southwestern asia having flowers whose buds are used as capers
trichostema dichotomum;aromatic plant of the eastern united states
lepus americanus;large large-footed north american hare. white in winter
erigeron speciosus;plant having branching leafy stems each branch with an especially showy solitary flower head with many narrow pink or lavender or white rays. northwestern united states mountains
plant hopper;related to the leafhoppers and spittlebugs but rarely damages cultivated plants
hoary puccoon;perennial north american plant with grayish hairy foliage yielding a red or yellow pigment
yellow mariposa tulip;mariposa having umbel-like clusters of a few large deep yellow bell-shaped flowers atop slender stems. california coastal ranges
manna gum;tall tree yielding a false manna
yellow eyed grass;any of several rushlike plants, especially of the pine barrens of southern united states
balata tree;a hard-wooded tropical tree yielding balata gum and heavy red timber
ophioglossum pendulum;epiphytic fern with straplike usually twisted fronds of tropical asia and polynesia and america
aperea;south american cavy. possibly ancestral to the domestic guinea pig
sugar palm;malaysian feather palm with base densely clothed with fibers. yields a sweet sap used in wine and trunk pith yields sago
lasiurus borealis;north american brick or rusty red bat with hairs tipped with white
citellus variegatus;large gray ground squirrel of rocky areas of the southwestern united states
horse botfly;parasitic chiefly on horses
devil s apples;a plant of southern europe and north africa having purple flowers, yellow fruits and a forked root formerly thought to have magical powers
boston bull;small pug-faced american terrier breed having a smooth brindle or black coat with white markings
pristis pectinatus;commonly found in tropical bays and estuaries. not aggressive
larid;long-winged web-footed aquatic bird of the gull family
common fig tree;mediterranean tree widely cultivated for its edible fruit
southwestern toad;a uniformly warty stocky toad of washes and streams of semiarid southwestern united states
sertularian;feathery colony of long-branched stems bearing stalkless paired polyps
house finch;small finch originally of the western united states and mexico
carrion fungus;any of various ill-smelling brown-capped fungi of the order phallales. 'the foul smell of the stinkhorn attracts insects that carry the spores away on their feet'
pooecetes gramineus;common north american finch noted for its evening song
punkey;minute two-winged insect that sucks the blood of mammals and birds and other insects
boletus subvelutipes;a fungus with a velvety stalk and usually a dingy brown cap. injured areas turn blue instantly
white oak;any of numerous old world and american oaks having 6 to 8 stamens in each floret, acorns that mature in one year and leaf veins that never extend beyond the margin of the leaf
mustelus canis;found along the atlantic coast of the americas
alectis ciliaris;fish having greatly elongated front rays on dorsal and anal fins
topminnow;freshwater fish of central america having a long swordlike tail. popular aquarium fish
bird s nest fungus;any of various fungi of the family nidulariaceae having a cup-shaped body containing several egg-like structure enclosing the spores
marumi;shrub bearing round-fruited kumquats
woodland white violet;short-stemmed violet of eastern north america having fragrant purple-veined white flowers
turritis glabra;or genus arabis: erect cress widely distributed throughout europe
horse nettle;coarse prickly weed having pale yellow flowers and yellow berrylike fruit. common throughout southern and eastern united states
napa;plant with an elongated celery-like head of broad stalked leaves used as a vegetable in east asia
violet flowered petunia;herb or small shrublet having solitary violet to rose-red flowers
cygnus columbianus;swan that nests in tundra regions of the new and old worlds
white sturgeon;valuable source of caviar and isinglass. found in black and caspian seas
purple granadillo;brazilian passionflower cultivated for its deep purple fruit
herb bennet;hairy eurasian plant with small yellow flowers and an astringent root formerly used medicinally
ant bear;large shaggy-haired toothless anteater with long tongue and powerful claws. of south america
anas platyrhynchos;wild dabbling duck from which domestic ducks are descended. widely distributed
muscicapa grisola;common european woodland flycatcher with grayish-brown plumage
turdus torquatus;european thrush common in rocky areas. the male has blackish plumage with a white band around the neck
water target;aquatic plant with floating oval leaves and purple flowers. in lakes and slow-moving streams. suitable for aquariums
jimsonweed;intensely poisonous tall coarse annual tropical weed having rank-smelling foliage, large white or violet trumpet-shaped flowers and prickly fruits
wild hyacinth;eastern camas. eastern and central north america
oregon ash;timber tree of western north america yielding hard light wood. closely related to the red ash
dusty miller;an old cottage garden plant of southeastern europe widely cultivated for its attractive white woolly foliage and showy crimson flowers
tongue fern;east asian fern having fronds shaped like tongues. sometimes placed in genus cyclophorus
totara;valuable timber tree of new zealand yielding hard reddish wood used for furniture and bridges and wharves
bryozoan;sessile aquatic animal forming mosslike colonies of small polyps each having a curved or circular ridge bearing tentacles. attach to stones or seaweed and reproduce by budding
adiantum tenerum;tropical american fern with broad pinnae. widely cultivated
prunus persica;cultivated in temperate regions
aleurites fordii;chinese tree bearing seeds that yield tung oil
batrachian;any of various tailless stout-bodied amphibians with long hind limbs for leaping. semiaquatic and terrestrial species
takahe;flightless new zealand birds similar to gallinules
waterleaf;any of several plants of the genus hydrophyllum
hussar monkey;reddish long-tailed monkey of west africa
beefsteak morel;a poisonous gyromitra. the surface of the fertile body is smooth at first and becomes progressively undulating and wrinkled (but never truly pitted). color varies from dull yellow to brown
bitter orange tree;any of various common orange trees yielding sour or bitter fruit. used as grafting stock
silversides;small fishes having a silver stripe along each side. found along the atlantic coast of the united states
labrador retriever;breed originally from labrador having a short black or golden-brown coat
common ivy;old world vine with lobed evergreen leaves and black berrylike fruits
potamogeton nodosus;pondweed with floating leaves. of northern united states and europe
quandong;australian tree with edible flesh and edible nutlike seed
globefish;any of numerous marine fishes whose elongated spiny body can inflate itself with water or air to form a globe. several species contain a potent nerve poison. closely related to spiny puffers
cat s ear;european weed widely naturalized in north america having yellow flower heads and leaves resembling a cat's ears
sandberry;evergreen mat-forming shrub of north america and northern eurasia having small white flowers and red berries. leaves turn red in autumn
pacific herring;important food fish of the north pacific
coach horse;strong horse for drawing coaches
white rhinoceros;large light-gray african rhinoceros having two horns. endangered. sometimes placed in genus diceros
swamp birch;birch of western united states resembling the paper birch but having brownish bark
black gum;small mallee with rough dark-colored bark toward the butt yielding a red eucalyptus kino
laughing jackass;australian kingfisher having a loud cackling cry
hyla arenicolor;small chiefly ground dweller that stays within easy jumping distance of water. of united states southwest and northern mexico
citrus aurantium;any of various common orange trees yielding sour or bitter fruit. used as grafting stock
cardinalfish;small red fishes of coral reefs and inshore tropical waters
lychnis dioica;biennial european catchfly having red or pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus lychnis
gardener s delight;an old cottage garden plant of southeastern europe widely cultivated for its attractive white woolly foliage and showy crimson flowers
blacktip shark;widely distributed shallow-water shark with fins seemingly dipped in ink
eriodictyon californicum;viscid evergreen shrub of western united states with white to deep lilac flowers. the sticky aromatic leaves are used in treating bronchial and pulmonary illnesses
lobelia cardinalis;north american lobelia having brilliant red flowers
gorse;very spiny and dense evergreen shrub with fragrant golden-yellow flowers. common throughout western europe
acridid;grasshopper with short antennae
climbing bird s nest fern;tropical africa to australasia and polynesia
large poodle;the largest poodle
native pomegranate;small australian tree bearing edible pomegranatelike fruit
indian hemp;source of e.g. bhang and hashish as well as fiber
maryland golden aster;perennial golden aster of southeastern united states
gastropod;a class of mollusks typically having a one-piece coiled shell and flattened muscular foot with a head bearing stalked eyes
loiseleuria procumbens;creeping mat-forming evergreen shrub of high mountain regions of northern hemisphere grown for its rose-pink flowers
soapweed;tall arborescent yucca of southwestern united states
arctostaphylos tomentosa;erect openly branched california shrub whose twigs are woolly when young
american water ouzel;a water ouzel of western north america
water dragon;swamp plant of europe and north america having bright yellow flowers resembling buttercups
nickelodeon;a cabinet containing an automatic record player. records are played by inserting a coin
buffalo fish;any of several large suckers of the mississippi valley
dinornis giganteus;the largest moa. about 12 feet high
trilisa odoratissima;perennial of southeastern united states with leaves having the fragrance of vanilla
leopard frog;common north american green or brownish frog having white-edged dark oval spots
bromus inermis;drought-resistant perennial with awns lacking or very short and long creeping rhizomes. europe and temperate asia
destroying angel;fungus similar to amanita_phalloides
japanese wistaria;having flowers of pink to mauve or violet-blue
cultivated parsnip;european biennial having a long fusiform root that has been made palatable through cultivation
guenon;small slender african monkey having long hind limbs and tail and long hair around the face
delphinium;any plant of the genus delphinium having palmately divided leaves and showy spikes of variously colored spurred flowers. some contain extremely poisonous substances
sweetpea;climbing garden plant having fragrant pastel-colored flowers
horse mackerel;large elongated compressed food fish of european atlantic waters
ladies  eardrop;erect or climbing shrub of brazil with deep pink to red flowers
milo maize;small drought-resistant sorghums having large yellow or whitish grains
striped racer;a whipsnake of scrublands and rocky hillsides
airedale;breed of large wiry-coated terrier bred in yorkshire
workstation;a desktop computer that is conventionally considered to be more powerful than a microcomputer
senecio aureus;weedy herb of the eastern united states to texas having golden-yellow flowers. sometimes becomes invasive. sometimes placed in genus senecio
stag;adult male deer
oarfish;thin deep-water tropical fish 20 to 30 feet long having a red dorsal fin
wigeon;freshwater duck of eurasia and north africa related to mallards and teals
calidris ferruginea;old world sandpiper with a curved bill like a curlew
christmas holly;an evergreen tree
squirrel monkey;small long-tailed monkey of central and south america with greenish fur and black muzzle
bullhead;any of several common freshwater catfishes of the united states
tanacetum camphoratum;densely hairy plant with rayless flowers. san francisco bay area
american liquorice;north american plant similar to true licorice and having a root with similar properties
fitch;dark brown mustelid of woodlands of eurasia that gives off an unpleasant odor when threatened
iva;any of various coarse shrubby plants of the genus iva with small greenish flowers. common in moist areas (as coastal salt marshes) of eastern and central north america
water spaniel;any dog of two large curly-coated breeds (the irish and the american) used for hunting waterfowl
turnix sylvatica;a variety of button quail having stripes
brittle maidenhair fern;tropical american fern with broad pinnae. widely cultivated
yellowfin;may reach 400 pounds. worldwide in tropics
alpinia purpurata;an ornamental ginger native to pacific islands
lion s ear;pantropical herb having whorls of striking lipped flowers. naturalized in united states
virgilia divaricata;fast-growing round-headed tree with fragrant white to deep rose flowers. planted as an ornamental
coral tree;any of various shrubs or shrubby trees of the genus erythrina having trifoliate leaves and racemes of scarlet to coral red flowers and black seeds. cultivated as an ornamental
jumping mouse;any of several primitive mouselike rodents with long hind legs and no cheek pouches. of woodlands of eurasia and north america
rose gum;very tall tree of queensland and new south wales
wood garlic;pungent old world weedy plant
whitecup;prostrate woody south american herb with white tubular flowers often tinged with blue or rose
yellow star thistle;european weed having a winged stem and hairy leaves. adventive in the eastern united states
jatropha urens;a stinging herb of tropical america
erythronium dens canis;sturdy european dogtooth with rose to mauve flowers. cultivated in many varieties
pepper grinder;a mill for grinding pepper
atriplex lentiformis;spiny shrub with silvery-scurfy foliage of alkaline plains of southwestern united states and mexico
snapper;australian food fish having a pinkish body with blue spots
allium vineale;pungent old world wild onion
acer negundo californicum;maple of the united states pacific coast. fruits are white when mature
cascara buckthorn;shrubby tree of united states pacific coast. yields cascara sagrada
nag;an old or over-worked horse
gopher snake;bull snake of western north america that invades rodent burrows
dorotheanthus bellidiformis;low-growing showy succulent annual of south africa having white or pink or red or orange flowers and spatulate leaves covered in crystal-like papillae
kangaroo apple;australian annual sometimes cultivated for its racemes of purple flowers and edible yellow egg-shaped fruit
scaphiopus hammondii;of california
domestic cat;any domesticated member of the genus felis
turacou;large brightly crested bird of africa
caley pea;week-stemmed winter annual native to mediterranean region for long established in southern united states. cultivated as a cover and pasture crop
archilochus colubris;a kind of hummingbird
sorbus torminalis;european tree bearing edible small speckled brown fruit
white snapdragon;california plant with slender wandlike racemes of white flowers
loblolly pine;tall spreading 3-needled pine of southeastern united states having reddish-brown fissured bark and a full bushy upper head
tollon;ornamental evergreen treelike shrub of united states pacific coast having large white flowers and red berrylike fruits. often placed in genus photinia
pokeweed;perennial of the genus phytolacca
chick;young bird esp. of domestic fowl
living thing;"any living entity"
oblong woodsia;a common rock-inhabiting fern of northern temperate regions having rusty-brown stipes and lanceolate pinnate fronds
blue fig;australian tree having hard white timber and glossy green leaves with white flowers followed by one-seeded glossy blue fruit
desmanthus ilinoensis;perennial herb of north american prairies having dense heads of small white flowers
tetragonia expansa;coarse sprawling australasian plant with red or yellow flowers. cultivated for its edible young shoots and succulent leaves
bigtooth aspen;aspen with a narrow crown. eastern north america
bar printer;an impact printer that uses a bar to carry the type slugs
black necked cobra;aggressive cobra widely distributed in africa. rarely bites but spits venom that may cause blindness
smilax aspera;creeping or climbing evergreen having spiny zigzag stems with shiny leaves and racemes of pale-green flowers. canary islands to southern europe and ethiopia and india
scottie;old scottish breed of small long-haired usually black terrier with erect tail and ears
dog mercury;european perennial weedy plant with greenish flowers
lymantria dispar;european moth introduced into north america. a serious pest of shade trees
stargazer;heavy-bodied marine bottom-lurkers with eyes on flattened top of the head
plasmodial slime mold;a slime mold of the class myxomycetes
california sage;low ashy-gray california shrub
dipodomys phillipsii;any of various leaping rodents of desert regions of north america and mexico. largest members of the family heteromyidae
tsuga mertensiana;large evergreen of western united states. wood much harder than canadian hemlock
dogy;motherless calf in a range herd of cattle
besseya alpina;small pale plant with dense spikes of pale bluish-violet flowers. of high cold meadows from wyoming and utah to new mexico
mealworm;the larva of beetles of the family tenebrionidae
mugho pine;low shrubby pine of central europe with short bright green needles in bunches of two
solidago spathulata;western american goldenrod with long narrow clusters of small yellow flowers
brassica perviridis;asiatic plant cultivated for its swollen root crown and edible foliage
variously leaved pondweed;of europe (except the mediterranean area) and the northern united states
tree frog;arboreal amphibians usually having adhesive disks at the tip of each toe. of southeast asia and australia and america
madnep;biennial weed in europe and america having large pinnate leaves and yellow flowers and a bitter and somewhat poisonous root. the ancestor of cultivated parsnip
honeysucker;australasian bird with tongue and bill adapted for extracting nectar
malus angustifolia;small tree or shrub of southeastern united states. cultivated as an ornamental for its rose-colored blossoms
grindle;primitive long-bodies carnivorous freshwater fish with a very long dorsal fin. found in sluggish waters of north america
cedrus atlantica;tall algerian evergreen of atlas mountains with blue-green leaves. widely planted as an ornamental
yellowhammer;large flicker of eastern north america with a red neck and yellow undersurface to wings and tail
pimento;plant bearing large mild thick-walled usually bell-shaped fruits. the principal salad peppers
pismire;social insect living in organized colonies. characteristically the males and fertile queen have wings during breeding season. wingless sterile females are the workers
silene uniflora;perennial of arctic europe having large white flowers with inflated calyx
maidenhair berry;slow-growing procumbent evergreen shrublet of northern north america and japan having white flowers and numerous white fleshy rough-hairy seeds
emu novaehollandiae;large australian flightless bird similar to the ostrich but smaller
footsteps of spring;sanicle of northwestern united states and british columbia having yellow flowers
parazoan;primitive multicellular marine animal whose porous body is supported by a fibrous skeletal framework. usually occurs in sessile colonies
ribbonwood;deciduous new zealand tree whose inner bark yields a strong flax-like fiber called new zealand cotton
spodoptera frugiperda;larva of a migratory american noctuid moth. destroys grasses and small grains
lady of the night;west indian shrub with fragrant showy yellowish-white flowers
flax rust fungus;fungus causing flax rust
red elm;north american elm having rough leaves that are red when opening. yields a hard wood
french sorrel;low perennial with small silvery-green ovate to hastate leaves
flindosy;tall australian timber tree yielding tough hard wood used for staves etc
sallow;any of several old world shrubby broad-leaved willows having large catkins. some are important sources for tanbark and charcoal
beach wormwood;herb with grayish leaves found along the east coast of north america. used as an ornamental plant
lasiocampid moth;medium-sized stout-bodied neutral-colored moths comb-like antennae
micruroides euryxanthus;ranges from central america to southwestern united states
cacao tree;tropical american tree producing cacao beans
tomato;native to south america. widely cultivated in many varieties
heartleaf;wild ginger having persistent heart-shaped pungent leaves. west virginia to alabama
swamp azalea;shrub growing in swamps throughout the eastern united states and having small white to pinkish honeysucklelike flowers
yaupon holly;an evergreen shrub
indian blanket;annual of central united states having showy long-stalked yellow flower heads marked with scarlet or purple in the center
tuatara;only extant member of the order rhynchocephalia of large spiny lizard-like diapsid reptiles of coastal islands off new zealand
great white shark;large aggressive shark widespread in warm seas. known to attack humans
epacris impressa;spindly upright shrub of southern australia and tasmania having white to rose or purple-red flowers
dachshund;small long-bodied short-legged german breed of dog having a short sleek coat and long drooping ears. suited for following game into burrows
honey locust;tall usually spiny north american tree having small greenish-white flowers in drooping racemes followed by long twisting seed pods. yields very hard durable reddish-brown wood. introduced to temperate old world
pink shower;tropical american semi-evergreen tree having erect racemes of pink or rose-colored flowers. used as an ornamental
strix aluco;reddish-brown european owl having a round head with black eyes
watermelon begonia;grown as a houseplant for its silvery striped fleshy foliage. south america
aythya affinis;common scaup of north america. males have purplish heads
hibiscus moschatus;bushy herb of tropical asia grown for its yellow or pink to scarlet hibiscuslike blooms
crotal;any of several lichens of the genus parmelia from which reddish brown or purple dyes are made
white bryony;white-flowered vine having thick roots and bearing small black berries. europe to iran
spoonleaf yucca;yucca with long stiff leaves having filamentlike appendages
tayassu tajacu;dark gray peccary with an indistinct white collar. of semi desert areas of mexico and southwestern united states
cyrilla family;shrubs and trees with leathery leaves and small white flowers in racemes: genera cyrilla and cliftonia
sarracenia minor;yellow-flowered pitcher plant of southeastern united states having trumpet-shaped leaves with the orifice covered with an arched hood
loose smut;a smut fungus of the genus ustilago causing a smut disease of grains in which the entire head is transformed into a dusty mass of spores
broom tree;prickly yellow-flowered shrub of the moors of new england and europe
edible pod pea;a variety of pea plant producing peas having soft thick edible pods lacking the fibrous inner lining of the common pea
mission bells;herb of southwestern united states having dark purple bell-shaped flowers mottled with green
scartella cristata;inhabits both coasts of tropical atlantic
paramecia;any member of the genus paramecium
true frog;insectivorous usually semiaquatic web-footed amphibian with smooth moist skin and long hind legs
african wild ass;a wild ass of africa
cyclophorus lingua;east asian fern having fronds shaped like tongues. sometimes placed in genus cyclophorus
fagus americana;north american forest tree with light green leaves and edible nuts
lofortyx californicus;plump chunky bird of coastal california and oregon
brassica rapa ruvo;plant grown for its pungent edible leafy shoots
dalmatian laburnum;erect shrub having large trifoliate leaves and dense clusters of yellow flowers followed by poisonous seeds. yugoslavia. sometimes placed in genus cytisus
yellowwood;any of various trees having yellowish wood or yielding a yellow extract
prairie grouse;brown mottled north american grouse of western prairies
cupressus arizonica;arizona timber tree with bluish silvery foliage
yellowlegs;either of two north american shorebird with yellow legs
rock polypody;chiefly lithophytic or epiphytic fern of north america and east asia
swiss chard;beet lacking swollen root. grown as a vegetable for its edible leaves and stalks
common valerian;tall rhizomatous plant having very fragrant flowers and rhizomes used medicinally
gentiana holopetala;small blue-flowered fringed gentian of sierra nevada mountains
organism;"any living entity"
gill fungus;a basidiomycete with gills
dryopteris fragrans;fern or northern eurasia and north america having fragrant fronds
astragalus alpinus;perennial of mountainous areas of eurasia and north america
stinking clover;plant of western north america having trifoliate leaves and white or pink spider-shaped flowers. sometimes used as an ornamental
xiphium iris;bulbous iris of western mediterranean region having usually violet-purple flowers
drimys winteri;south american evergreen tree yielding winter's bark and a light soft wood similar to basswood
dusky salamander;common north american salamander mottled with dull brown or grayish-black
eastern spruce;medium-sized spruce of eastern north america. chief lumber spruce of the area. source of pulpwood
sess;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
lepiota procera;edible long-stalked mushroom with white flesh and gills and spores. found in open woodlands in autumn
apple rust;rust fungus causing rust spots on apples and pears etc
asarabacca;thick creeping evergreen herb of western europe
citellus lateralis;common black-striped reddish-brown ground squirrel of western north america. resembles a large chipmunk
althea officinalis;european perennial plant naturalized in united states having triangular ovate leaves and lilac-pink flowers
meriones unguiculatus;popular as a pet
indian poke;pokeweed of southeastern asia and china
daw;common black-and-gray eurasian bird noted for thievery
esox niger;common in quiet waters of eastern united states
dwarf buffalo;small buffalo of the celebes having small straight horns
penstemon barbatus;plant of southwestern united states having long open clusters of scarlet flowers with yellow hairs on lower lip
iris pallida;european iris having soft lilac-blue flowers
ficus sycomorus;thick-branched wide-spreading tree of africa and adjacent southwestern asia often buttressed with branches rising from near the ground. produces cluster of edible but inferior figs on short leafless twigs. the biblical sycamore
wrack;dried seaweed esp. that cast ashore
schizanthus;any plant of the genus schizanthus having finely divided leaves and showy variegated flowers
crotonbug;small light-brown cockroach brought to united states from europe. a common household pest
motmot;tropical american bluejay-like bird having greenish and bluish plumage
leymus condensatus;stout perennial grass of western north america
hedge thorn;south african shrub having forked spines and plumlike fruit. frequently used as hedging
tree sloth;any of several slow-moving arboreal mammals of south and central america. they hang from branches back downward and feed on leaves and fruits
roccella;a source of the dye archil and of litmus
fox squirrel;exceptionally large arboreal squirrel of eastern united states
redbird cactus;low tropical american shrub having powerful emetic properties
brompton stock;european plant with racemes of sweet-scented flowers. widely cultivated as an ornamental
common shrew;common american shrew
citellus citellus;rather large central eurasian ground squirrel
aster dumosus;stiff perennial of the eastern united states having small linear leaves and numerous tiny white flower heads
brazilian guava;south american tree having fruit similar to the true guava
ipomoea batatas;pantropical vine widely cultivated in several varieties for its large sweet orange-fleshed tuberous root
veery;tawny brown north american thrush noted for its song
blinks;small indian lettuce of northern regions
ficus diversifolia;shrub or small tree often grown as a houseplant having mistletoelike foliage
briar;evergreen treelike mediterranean shrub having fragrant white flowers in large terminal panicles and hard woody roots used to make tobacco pipes
kangaroo foot plant;sedgelike spring-flowering herb having clustered flowers covered with woolly hairs. australia
sweet four o clock;leafy wildflower having fragrant slender white or pale pink trumpet-shaped flowers. southwestern united states and northern mexico
liparis liparis;small tadpole-shaped cold-water fishes with pelvic fins forming a sucker. related to lumpfish
forest goat;cow-like creature with the glossy coat of a horse and the agility of a goat and the long horns of an antelope. characterized as a cow that lives the life of a goat
luscinia luscinia;large nightingale of eastern europe
madagascar cat;small lemur having its tail barred with black
garden forget me not;small biennial to perennial herb of europe, northern africa and western asia having blue, purple or white flowers
vulpes macrotis;small gray fox of southwestern united states. may be a subspecies of vulpes velox
alkali bee;a common solitary bee important for pollinating alfalfa in the western united states
emu;large australian flightless bird similar to the ostrich but smaller
bay;small mediterranean evergreen tree with small blackish berries and glossy aromatic leaves used for flavoring in cooking. also used by ancient greeks to crown victors
gallinule;any of various small aquatic birds of the genus gallinula distinguished from rails by a frontal shield and a resemblance to domestic hens
fringilla montifringilla;eurasian finch
columnea;tropical plant having thick hairy somewhat toothed leaves and solitary or clustered yellow to scarlet flowers. many cultivated for their flowers and ornamental foliage
monardella lanceolata;fragrant california annual herb having lanceolate leaves and clusters of rose-purple flowers
prenanthes purpurea;herb of central and southern europe having purple florets
salix babylonica;willow with long drooping branches and slender leaves native to china. widely cultivated as an ornamental
ptarmigan;large arctic and subarctic grouse with feathered feet and usually white winter plumage
thevetia neriifolia;tropical american shrub or small tree having glossy dark green leaves and fragrant saffron yellow to orange or peach- colored flowers. all parts highly poisonous
sissoo;east indian tree whose leaves are used for fodder. yields a compact dark brown durable timber used in shipbuilding and making railroad ties
drumstick tree;deciduous or semi-evergreen tree having scented sepia to yellow flowers in drooping racemes and pods whose pulp is used medicinally. tropical asia and central and south america and australia
basket star;any starfish-like animal of the genera euryale or astrophyton or gorgonocephalus having slender complexly branched interlacing arms radiating from a central disc
woody plant;a plant having hard lignified tissues or woody parts especially stems
conceptus;an animal organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that in higher forms merge into fetal stages but in lower forms terminate in commencement of larval life
cocci;any spherical or nearly spherical bacteria
malus coronaria;medium-sized tree of the eastern united states having pink blossoms and small yellow fruit
neotoma cinerea;any of several bushy-tailed rodents of the genus neotoma of western north america. hoards food and other objects
pink;any of various flowers of plants of the genus dianthus cultivated for their fragrant flowers
yucca smalliana;yucca of southern united states having a clump of basal grasslike leaves and a central stalk with a terminal raceme of small whitish flowers
otis tarda;largest european land bird
walnut tree;any of various trees of the genus juglans
sea spurry;prostrate weedy herb with tiny pink flowers. widespread throughout europe and asia on sand dunes and heath and coastal cliffs. naturalized in eastern north america
prunus dulcis amara;almond trees having white blossoms and poisonous nuts yielding an oil used for flavoring and for medicinal purposes
mephitis macroura;of mexico and southernmost parts of southwestern united states
king s spear;asphodel with leafy stem and fragrant yellow flowers
saint peter s wreath;shrub having copious small white flowers in spring
aix galericulata;showy crested asiatic duck. often domesticated
barren ground caribou;of tundra of northern canada. in some classifications included in the species rangifer tarandus
grevillea banksii;tall shrub with cylindrical racemes of red flowers and pinnatifid leaves silky-gray beneath. eastern australia
cardigan welsh corgi;slightly bow-legged variety of corgi having rounded ears and a long tail
eunectes murinus;large arboreal boa of tropical south america
elaeagnus latifolia;erect shrub or climber of india and china with red olivelike fruit
mantis shrimp;tropical marine burrowing crustaceans with large grasping appendages
vibrio comma;comma-shaped bacteria that cause asiatic cholera
alehoof;trailing european aromatic plant of the mint family having rounded leaves and small purplish flowers often grown in hanging baskets. naturalized in north america. sometimes placed in genus nepeta
polecat;american musteline mammal typically ejecting an intensely malodorous fluid when startled. in some classifications put in a separate subfamily mephitinae
macadamia;any tree of the genus macadamia
russian olive;deciduous shrubby tree of europe and western asia having gray leaves and small yellow fruits covered in silvery scales. sometimes spiny
equus hemionus hemionus;mongolian wild ass
miter mushroom;a helvella with a saddle-shaped fertile part and creamy color. the stalk is fluted and pitted
pterocarpus angolensis;deciduous south african tree having large odd-pinnate leaves and profuse fragrant orange-yellow flowers. yields a red juice and heavy strong durable wood
swamp oak;australian leafless shrub resembling broom and having small yellow flowers
annelid worm;worms with cylindrical bodies segmented both internally and externally
alstroemeria;any of various south american plants of the genus alstroemeria valued for their handsome umbels of beautiful flowers
boatswain bird;mostly white web-footed tropical seabird often found far from land
true fir;any of various evergreen trees of the genus abies. chiefly of upland areas
brewer s mole;mole of eastern north america
enterics;rod-shaped gram-negative bacteria. most occur normally or pathogenically in intestines of humans and other animals
kick starter;a starter (as on a motorcycle) that is activated with the foot and the weight of the body
cervus nipon;small deer of japan with slightly forked antlers
ovis musimon;wild short-fleeced mountain sheep of corsica and sardinia
meadow vole;widely distributed in grasslands of northern united states and canada
cotton rat;destructive long-haired burrowing rat of southern north america and central america
flowering tobacco;south american ornamental perennial having nocturnally fragrant greenish-white flowers
pussley;weedy trailing mat-forming herb with bright yellow flowers cultivated for its edible mildly acid leaves eaten raw or cooked especially in indian and greek and middle eastern cuisine. cosmopolitan
quercus suber;medium-sized evergreen oak of southern europe and northern africa having thick corky bark that is periodically stripped to yield commercial cork
hawaiian honeycreeper;small to medium-sized finches of the hawaiian islands
adzuki bean;bushy annual widely grown in china and japan for the flour made from its seeds
douglas fir;tall evergreen timber tree of western north america having resinous wood and short needles
carolina hemlock;medium-sized evergreen of southeastern united states having spreading branches and widely diverging cone scales
locoweed;any of several leguminous plants of western north america causing locoism in livestock
zoysia tenuifolia;asiatic creeping perennial grass. introduced in southern united states as a dought-resistant lawn grass
gnawer;relatively small gnawing animals having a single pair of constantly growing incisor teeth specialized for gnawing
grossbeak;any of various finches of europe or america having a massive and powerful bill
manna grass;any of several moisture-loving grasses of the genus glyceria having sweet flavor or odor
gyrfalcon;large and rare arctic falcon having white and dark color phases
smoother;a tool used for sanding wood. a loop of sandpaper is moved at high speed by an electric motor
dhal;tropical woody herb with showy yellow flowers and flat pods. much cultivated in the tropics
whiting;a food fish of european atlantic waters resembling the cod. sometimes placed in genus gadus
gaur;wild ox of mountainous areas of eastern india
albizia;any of numerous trees of the genus albizia
poxvirus;any of a group of viruses that can cause pox diseases in vertebrates
highbush cranberry;deciduous north american shrub or small tree having three-lobed leaves and red berries
poison bush;either of two australian plants of the genus swainsona that are poisonous to sheep
dwarf pipefish;small (4 inches) fish found off florida gulf coast
red birch;birch of swamps and river bottoms throughout the eastern united states having reddish-brown bark
hadrosaur;any of numerous large bipedal ornithischian dinosaurs having a horny duck-like bill and webbed feet. may have been partly aquatic
livestock;not used technically. any animals kept for use or profit
calidris canutus;sandpiper that breeds in the arctic and winters in the s hemisphere
italian honeysuckle;deciduous climbing shrub with fragrant yellow-white flowers in axillary whorls
ani;black tropical american cuckoo
picornavirus;a group of single-strand rna viruses with a protein coat
yellowwood tree;any of various trees having yellowish wood or yielding a yellow extract
rocky mountain maple;small maple of northwestern north america
canachites canadensis;north american grouse that feeds on evergreen buds and needles
peewit;large crested old world plover having wattles and spurs
star ipomoea;annual herb having scarlet flowers. the eastern united states
coralberry;north american deciduous shrub cultivated for it abundant clusters of coral-red berrylike fruits
alaskan malamute;breed of sled dog developed in alaska
polychaete worm;chiefly marine annelids possessing both sexes and having paired appendages (parapodia) bearing bristles
potamogeton gramineous;of europe (except the mediterranean area) and the northern united states
moufflon;wild short-fleeced mountain sheep of corsica and sardinia
hovea;any of several attractive evergreen shrubs of australia grown for their glossy deep green hollylike foliage and flowers in rich blues and intense violets
underwing;moth having dull forewings and brightly colored hind wings
archosargus rhomboidalis;sea bream of warm atlantic waters
myosotis sylvatica;small biennial to perennial herb of europe, northern africa and western asia having blue, purple or white flowers
tolu balsam tree;medium-sized tropical american tree yielding tolu balsam and a fragrant hard wood used for high-grade furniture and cabinetwork
fever tree;ornamental shrub or small tree of swampy areas in southwestern united states having large pink or white sepals and yielding georgia bark for treating fever
white tipped shark;large deep-water shark with white-tipped dorsal fin. worldwide distribution. most dangerous shark
peachick;a young peafowl
european bittern;a kind of bittern
othonna;a south african plant of the genus othonna having smooth often fleshy leaves and heads of yellow flowers
spinach mustard;asiatic plant cultivated for its swollen root crown and edible foliage
cytisus albus;low european broom having trifoliate leaves and yellowish-white flowers
cowry;any of numerous tropical marine gastropods of the genus cypraea having highly polished usually brightly marked shells
spreading dogbane;north american perennial having pinkish flowers in loose cymes. used in folk medicine for pain or inflammation in joints
geranium;any of numerous plants of the family geraniaceae
snowdrop tree;medium-sized tree of west virginia to florida and texas
acris crepitans;of eastern and central united states
iris virginica;similar to blue flag. the eastern united states
wild potato vine;tropical american prostrate or climbing herbaceous perennial having an enormous starchy root. sometimes held to be source of the sweet potato
strawberry bush;upright deciduous plant with crimson pods and seeds. the eastern united states from new york to florida and texas
colt;a young male horse under the age of four
maltese;breed of toy dogs having a long straight silky white coat
caranx bartholomaei;fish of western atlantic and gulf of mexico
vampire bat;any of various tropical american bats of the family desmodontidae that bite mammals and birds to feed on their blood
marsh felwort;perennial of damp places in mountains of eurasia and north america having dull-colored blue or violet flowers
mantis;predacious long-bodied large-eyed insect of warm regions. rests with forelimbs raised as in prayer
shrubby st john s wort;stiff shrub having oblong entire leaves and dense cymes of yellow flowers
tree fuchsia;erect deciduous shrub or tree to 10 feet with maroon-flushed flowers. new zealand
indigo squill;eastern camas. eastern and central north america
copper beech;variety of european beech with shining purple or copper-colored leaves
amianthum muscitoxicum;all parts of plant are highly toxic. bulb pounded and used as a fly poison. sometimes placed in subfamily melanthiaceae
deccan hemp;valuable fiber plant of east indies now widespread in cultivation
calosoma scrutator;large metallic blue-green beetle that preys on caterpillars. north america
ulmus sarniensis;a variety of the english elm with erect branches and broader leaves
snow orchid;waxy white nearly leafless plant with stems in clusters and racemes of white flowers. northwestern united states to northern california and east to idaho
seaside scrub oak;small evergreen shrub or tree of southeastern united states. often forms almost impenetrable thickets in sandy coastal areas
horned dinosaur;any of several four-footed herbivorous horned dinosaurs with enormous beaked skulls. of the late cretaceous in north america and mongolia
sassafras;yellowwood tree with brittle wood and aromatic leaves and bark. source of sassafras oil. widely distributed in eastern north america
burma padauk;tree of india and burma yielding a wood resembling mahogany
east india rosewood;east indian tree having a useful dark purple wood
indris;large short-tailed lemur of madagascar having thick silky fur in black and white and fawn
broncho;an unbroken or imperfectly broken mustang
tofieldia pusilla;false asphodel having spikes of white or white-green flowers. of mountainous regions of europe
dwarf iris;low-growing summer-flowering iris of northeastern united states
machilid;wingless insect living in dark moist places as under dead tree trunks. they make erratic leaps when disturbed
viburnum lantana;vigorous deciduous european treelike shrub common along waysides. red berries turn black
beech tree;any of several large deciduous trees with rounded spreading crowns and smooth gray bark and small sweet edible triangular nuts enclosed in burs. north temperate regions
buckleya;parasitic shrub of the eastern united states having opposite leaves and insignificant greenish flowers followed by oily dull-green olivelike fruits
crottal;any of several lichens of the genus parmelia from which reddish brown or purple dyes are made
barley grass;european annual grass often found as a weed in waste ground especially along roadsides and hedgerows
pomeranian;breed of very small compact long-haired dogs of the spitz type
marsh trefoil;perennial plant of europe and america having racemes of white or purplish flowers and intensely bitter trifoliate leaves. often rooting at water margin and spreading across the surface
serotine;common european brown bat
parrakeet;any of numerous small slender long-tailed parrots
barn grass;a coarse annual panic grass. a cosmopolitan weed. occasionally used for hay or grazing
pinworm;small threadlike worm infesting human intestines and rectum esp. in children
horseshoe bat;any of numerous bats of northwest africa or philippines or australia having a horseshoe-shaped leaf on the nose
gramma grass;pasture grass of plains of south america and western north america
sesamum indicum;east indian annual erect herb. source of sesame seed or benniseed and sesame oil
red haw;american red-fruited hawthorn with stems and leaves densely covered with short woolly hairs
mudskipper;found in tropical coastal regions of africa and asia. able to move on land on strong pectoral fins
green bristlegrass;european foxtail naturalized in north america. often a troublesome weed
box white oak;small deciduous tree of eastern and central united states having dark green lyrate pinnatifid leaves and tough moisture-resistant wood used especially for fence posts
african chameleon;a chameleon found in africa
vinegar fly;flies whose larvae feed on pickles and imperfectly sealed preserves
bacteroid;any of the rod-shaped or branched bacteria in the root nodules of nitrogen-fixing plants
fagopyrum esculentum;or member of genus fagopyrum. annual asian plant with clusters of small pinkish white flowers and small edible triangular seeds which are used whole or ground into flour
goatsfoot;short-stemmed south african plant with bluish flowers
giant fern;highly variable species of very large primitive ferns of the pacific tropical areas with high rainfall
wood cudweed;weedy perennial of north temperate regions having woolly foliage and dirty white flowers in a leafy spike
dugong;sirenian tusked mammal found from eastern africa to australia. the flat tail is bilobate
indian button fern;fern of tropical asia having round buttonlike bulbils
hexalectris spicata;orchid with yellowish-brown flowers with dark veins. southeastern arizona to the eastern united states
cave bat;drab yellowish big-eared cave-dwelling bat
panthera tigris;large feline of forests in most of asia having a tawny coat with black stripes. endangered
water scorpion;long-legged aquatic insect having the front legs fitted for seizing and holding prey and the abdomen extended by a long breathing tube
chain pike;common in quiet waters of eastern united states
chinese lantern plant;old world perennial cultivated for its ornamental inflated papery orange-red calyx
brontosaurus;huge quadrupedal herbivorous dinosaur common in n. america in the late jurassic
milking shorthorn;breed evolved from shorthorn beef cattle
largemouth bass;a large black bass. the angle of the jaw falls behind the eye
swiftlet;swift of eastern asia. produces the edible bird's nest
mombin;common tropical american shrub or small tree with purplish fruit
euonymus europaeus;small erect deciduous shrub having tough white wood and cathartic bark and fruit
viola reichenbachiana;common european violet that grows in woods and hedgerows
lychnis;mostly perennial herbs with sticky stems that catch insects. widespread in north temperate zone
amanita phalloides;extremely poisonous usually white fungus with a prominent cup-shaped base. differs from edible agaricus only in its white gills
zebu;domesticated ox having a humped back and long horns and a large dewlap. used chiefly as a draft animal in india and east asia
canavalia gladiata;twining tropical old world plant bearing long pods usually with red or brown beans. long cultivated in orient for food
felt fungus;fungus that frequently encircles twigs and branches of various trees especially citrus trees in southern united states
rocky mountain jay;a canada jay with a white head. widely distributed from montana to arizona
yellow avens;hairy yellow-flowered plant of eastern asia and north america
davallia;any fern of the genus davallia. having scaly creeping rhizomes
channel bass;large edible fish found off coast of united states from massachusetts to mexico
hedgehog cactus;cactus of the genus echinocactus having stout sharp spines
bandtail;wild pigeon of western north america. often mistaken for the now extinct passenger pigeon
langur;slender long-tailed monkey of asia
buteo jamaicensis;dark brown american hawk species having a reddish-brown tail
meadow saxifrage;rosette-forming perennial having compact panicles of white flowers. europe
msasa;small shrubby african tree having compound leaves and racemes of small fragrant green flowers
caesalpinia coriaria;small thornless tree or shrub of tropical america whose seed pods are a source of tannin
bedder;an ornamental plant suitable for planting in a flowerbed
hooded ladies;orchid having dense clusters of gently spiraling creamy white flowers with 2 upper petals forming a hood. western north america
gourd;any vine of the family cucurbitaceae that bears hard-rinded fruits
paddlefish;primitive fish of the mississippi valley having a long paddle-shaped snout
mogdad coffee;very leafy malodorous tropical weedy shrub whose seeds have been used as an adulterant for coffee. sometimes classified in genus cassia
wood meadowgrass;slender european grass of shady places. grown also in northeastern america and temperate asia
sand martin;swallow of the northern hemisphere that nests in tunnels dug in clay or sand banks
otter;freshwater carnivorous mammal having webbed and clawed feet and dark brown fur
crested penguin;small penguin of the falkland islands and new zealand
diesel engine;an internal-combustion engine that burns heavy oil
calla lily;south african plant widely cultivated for its showy pure white spathe and yellow spadix
centropus sinensis;common coucal of india and china
sea eryngium;european evergreen eryngo with twisted spiny leaves naturalized on united states east coast. roots formerly used as an aphrodisiac
slender centaury;a slender variety of centaury
aegina;small medusa
moneses uniflora;delicate evergreen dwarf herb of north temperate regions having a solitary white terminal flower. sometimes placed in genus pyrola
stenopterygius;an ichthyosaur of the genus stenopterygius
melopsittacus undulatus;small australian parakeet usually light green with black and yellow markings in the wild but bred in many colors
pet;a domesticated animal kept for companionship or amusement
day lily;any of numerous perennials having tuberous roots and long narrow bladelike leaves and usually yellow lilylike flowers that bloom for only a day
yellow twining snapdragon;southwestern united states plant with yellow flowers on stems that twist and twine through other vegetation
tetranychid;web-spinning mite that attacks garden plants and fruit trees
humpback whale;large whalebone whale with long flippers noted for arching or humping its back as it dives
corn mayweed;european white-flowered weed naturalized in north america
madake;large bamboo having thick-walled culms. native of china and perhaps japan. widely brown elsewhere
spaniel;any of several breeds of small to medium-sized gun dogs with a long silky coat and long frilled ears
macadamia tetraphylla;bushy tree with pink to purple flowers
dicksonia antarctica;of australia and tasmania. often cultivated. hardy in cool climates
stink bell;a malodorous california herb with bell-shaped flowers. a common weed in grainfields
tibetan terrier;breed of medium-sized terriers bred in tibet resembling old english sheepdogs with fluffy curled tails
sweet clover;erect annual or biennial plant grown extensively especially for hay and soil improvement
bluebell;one of the most handsome prairie wildflowers laving large erect bell-shaped bluish flowers. of moist places in prairies and fields from eastern colorado and nebraska south to new mexico and texas
autopilot;"automatically keeps ships or planes or spacecraft on a steady course"
little owl;small european owl
american ginseng;north american woodland herb similar to and used as substitute for the chinese ginseng
rowan tree;eurasian tree with orange-red berrylike fruits
upland sandpiper;large plover-like sandpiper of north american fields and uplands
china jute;tall annual herb or subshrub of tropical asia having velvety leaves and yellow flowers and yielding a strong fiber. naturalized in southeastern europe and united states
sea holly;widely cultivated southern european acanthus with whitish purple-veined flowers
vespula vulgaris;a variety of vespid wasp
bohemian waxwing;large waxwing of northern north america. similar to but larger than the cedar waxwing
salpinctes obsoletus;wren inhabiting badlands and mesa country of western united states and mexico
hominid;a primate of the family hominidae
deer fern;fern with erect fronds of europe and western north america. often cultivated for deer browse
melanotis caerulescens;mockingbird of mexico
leatherjacket;tough-skinned larva of certain crane flies
gypsy moth;european moth introduced into north america. a serious pest of shade trees
sesbania exaltata;tall-growing annual of southwestern united states widely grown as green manure. yields a strong tough bast fiber formerly used by indians for cordage
dishcloth gourd;any of several tropical annual climbers having large yellow flowers and edible young fruits. grown commercially for the mature fruit's dried fibrous interior that is used as a sponge
yellowtail flounder;american flounder having a yellowish tail
gallfly;fragile mosquito-like flies that produce galls on plants
japanese maple;leaves deeply incised and bright red in autumn. japan
jamaica caper tree;shrub of southern florida to west indies
fetid horehound;ill-smelling european herb with rugose leaves and whorls of dark purple flowers
black cherry tree;large north american wild cherry with round black sour edible fruit
crabeater seal;silvery gray antarctic seal subsisting on crustaceans
peba;having nine hinged bands of bony plates. ranges from texas to paraguay
dayfly;slender insect with delicate membranous wings having an aquatic larval stage and terrestrial adult stage usually lasting less than two days
russian tumbleweed;prickly bushy eurasian plant. a troublesome weed in central and western united states
european water ouzel;a water ouzel of europe
rambouillet;hardy sheep developed from the merino producing both good mutton and fine wool
bitter pea;any of several spiny shrubs of the genus daviesia having yellow flowers and triangular seeds. australia
hediondilla;desert shrub of southwestern united states and new mexico having persistent resinous aromatic foliage and small yellow flowers
fringed gecko;having membranous expansions along sides of body and limbs and tail
spiraea;any rosaceous plant of the genus spiraea. has sprays of small white or pink flowers
new world warbler;small bright-colored american songbird with a weak unmusical song
globe lily;any of several plants of the genus calochortus having egg-shaped flowers
blister beetle;beetle that produces a secretion that blisters the skin
elymus trachycaulos;north american grass cultivated in western united states as excellent forage crop
fragrant agrimony;fragrant european perennial herb found at woodland margins on moist soils
sea island cotton;small bushy tree grown on islands of the caribbean and off the southern united states atlantic coast and yielding cotton with unusually long silky fibers
jamestown weed;intensely poisonous tall coarse annual tropical weed having rank-smelling foliage, large white or violet trumpet-shaped flowers and prickly fruits
cunner;common in north atlantic coastal waters of the united states
rumex obtusifolius;european dock with broad obtuse leaves and bitter rootstock common as a weed in north america
floating fern;pantropical aquatic fern
budgie;small australian parakeet usually light green with black and yellow markings in the wild but bred in many colors
asian coral snake;of india
wildcat;any small or medium-sized cat resembling the domestic cat and living in the wild
styrax texana;styrax of southwestern united states. a threatened species
sewing needle;slender-bodied non-stinging insect having iridescent wings that are outspread at rest. adults and nymphs feed on mosquitoes etc.
varan;any of various large tropical carnivorous lizards of africa asia and australia. fabled to warn of crocodiles
canada goose;common grayish-brown wild goose of north america
yellowbird;american finch whose male has yellow body plumage in summer
ketembilla;maroon-purple gooseberry-like fruit of india having tart-sweet purple pulp used especially for preserves
radial engine;an internal-combustion engine having cylinders arranged radially around a central crankcase
creeping bugle;low rhizomatous european carpeting plant having spikes of blue flowers. naturalized in parts of united states
gastroboletus turbinatus;a fungus with a cap that can vary from red to dark brown. superficially resembles a bolete
brood bitch;a bitch used for breeding
shaggymane;common edible mushroom having an elongated shaggy white cap and black spores
pandanus;any of various old world tropical palmlike trees having huge prop roots and pineapplelike leaves and edible conelike fruits
dovyalis hebecarpa;small shrubby spiny tree cultivated for its maroon-purple fruit with sweet purple pulp tasking like gooseberries. sri lanka and india
shearwater;long-winged oceanic bird that in flight skims close to the waves
massachusetts fern;delicate feathery shield fern of the eastern united states. sometimes placed in genus thelypteris
rock cornish;small plump hybrid developed by crossbreeding plymouth rock and cornish fowl
acheta assimilis;common american black cricket. attacks crops and also enters dwellings
clown anemone fish;an anemone fish of the genus amphiprion
pine lizard;small active lizard of united states and north to british columbia
prunus subhirtella;shrub or tree native to japan cultivated as an ornamental for its rose-pink flowers
nemophila maculata;california annual having white flowers with a deep purple blotch on each petal
citrophilus mealybug;destructive esp. to citrus
milker;cattle that are reared for their milk
aedes aegypti;mosquito that transmits yellow fever and dengue
mealy sage;texas sage having intensely blue flowers
white wax tree;erect evergreen treelike shrub of china and korea and japan having acuminate leaves and flowers in long erect panicles. resembles japanese privet
isatis tinctoria;european biennial formerly grown for the blue coloring matter yielded by its leaves
butternut squash;plant bearing buff-colored squash having somewhat bottle-shaped fruit with fine-textured edible flesh and smooth thin rind
hedge garlic;european herb that smells like garlic
mentha suaveolens;mint with apple-scented stems of southern and western europe. naturalized in united states
ribbon leaved water plantain;a variety of water plantain
caprine animal;any of numerous agile ruminants related to sheep but having a beard and straight horns
galiella rufa;the cup-shaped fruiting body of this discomycete has a jellylike interior and a short stalk
herpes;any of the animal viruses that cause painful blisters on the skin
tatu;about three feet long exclusive of tail
cardinalis cardinalis;crested thick-billed north american finch having bright red plumage in the male
cutworm;north american moth whose larvae feed on young plant stems cutting them off at the ground
malaxis unifolia;north american orchid having a solitary leaf and flowers with threadlike petals
american merganser;common north american diving duck considered a variety of the european goosander
matricaria inodorum;ubiquitous european annual weed with white flowers and finely divided leaves naturalized and sometimes cultivated in eastern north america. sometimes included in genus matricaria
dasheen;herb of the pacific islands grown throughout the tropics for its edible root and in temperate areas as an ornamental for its large glossy leaves
king orange;large citrus tree having large sweet deep orange fruit that is easily peeled. widely cultivated in florida
desert sand verbena;soft-haired sticky plant with heads of bright pink trumpet-shaped flowers. found in sandy desert soil. after ample rains may carpet miles of desert with pink from the southwestern united states to northern mexico
thick footed morel;a delicious morel with a conic fertile portion having deep and irregular pits
brassica napus;eurasian plant cultivated for its seed and as a forage crop
nootka cypress;tall evergreen of north american pacific coast often cultivated for ornament
sinanthropus;genus to which peking man was formerly assigned
bunya bunya;australian conifer bearing two-inch seeds tasting like roasted chestnuts. among the aborigines the tree is hereditary property protected by law
sphyrapicus varius;eastern north american sapsucker having a pale yellow abdomen
wandering albatross;very large albatross. white with wide black wings
crotalus atrox;largest and most dangerous north american snake. of southwestern united states and mexico
waxmallow;any of various plants of the genus malvaviscus having brilliant bell-shaped drooping flowers like incompletely opened hibiscus flowers
opah;large elliptical brightly colored deep-sea fish of atlantic and pacific and mediterranean
roystonea oleracea;west indian palm with leaf buds that are edible when young
frasera speciosa;tall herb with panicles of white flowers flushed with green. northwestern united states. sometimes placed in genus swertia
laurel willow;european willow tree with shining leathery leaves. widely naturalized in the eastern united states
shumard oak;large deciduous red oak of southern and eastern united states having large 7- to 9-lobed elliptical leaves, large acorns and medium hard coarse-grained wood
camel;cud-chewing mammal used as a draft or saddle animal in desert regions
trichoglossus moluccanus;a kind of lorikeet
prunus domestica insititia;plum tree long cultivated for its edible fruit
japanese morning glory;annual old world tropical climbing herb distinguished by wide color range and frilled or double flowers
rose bug;common north american beetle: larvae feed on roots and adults on leaves and flowers of e.g. rose bushes or apple trees or grape vines
white crowned sparrow;finch with black-and-white striped crown
rivulus;found in small streams of tropical america. often kept in aquariums. usually hermaphroditic
barrel cactus;a cactus of the genus ferocactus: unbranched barrel-shaped cactus having deep ribs with numerous spines and usually large funnel-shaped flowers followed by dry fruits
roadrunner;speedy largely terrestrial bird found from california and mexico to texas
ring tailed cat;raccoon-like omnivorous mammal of mexico and the southwestern united states having a long bushy tail with black and white rings
audubon warbler;common warbler of western north america
discina macrospora;a discina with a flat or saucer-shaped fertile body that is brown on the upper surface. has a short stalk. not recommended for eating
arabis glabra;or genus arabis: erect cress widely distributed throughout europe
brier;eurasian rose with prickly stems and fragrant leaves and bright pink flowers followed by scarlet hips
yellow asphodel;asphodel with leafy stem and fragrant yellow flowers
carolina lupine;eastern united states bush pea
polyprion americanus;brown fish of the atlantic and mediterranean found around rocks and shipwrecks
common snipe;common snipe of eurasia and africa
tridacna gigas;giant clam inhabiting reefs in the south pacific weighing up to 500' pounds
sterna hirundo;common tern of eurasia and america having white black and gray plumage
bladder campion;bluish-green herb having sticky stems and clusters of large evening-opening white flowers with much-inflated calyx. sometimes placed in genus lychnis
copernicia alba;south american palm yielding a wax similar to carnauba wax
euphorbia cyathophora;poinsettia of united states and eastern mexico. often confused with euphoria heterophylla
corker;a machine that is used to put corks in bottles
blue mahoe;erect forest tree of cuba and jamaica having variably hairy leaves and orange-yellow or orange-red flowers. yields a moderately dense timber for cabinetwork and gunstocks
blackpoll;north american warbler having a black-and-white head
black stemmed spleenwort;fern of tropical america: from southern united states to west indies and mexico to brazil
tineoid;small dull-colored moth with chewing mouthparts
lammergeier;the largest eurasian bird of prey. having black feathers hanging around the bill
osmunda clatonia;north american fern having tall erect pinnate fronds and a few sporogenous pinnae at or near the center of the fertile fronds
common oak;medium to large deciduous european oak having smooth leaves with rounded lobes. yields hard strong light-colored wood
salvia pratensis;tall perrenial old world salvia with violet-blue flowers. found in open grasslands
spikemoss;any of numerous fern allies of the genus selaginella
bugloss;perennial or biennial herb cultivated for its delicate usually blue flowers
bloodroot;perennial woodland native of north america having a red root and red sap and bearing a solitary lobed leave and white flower in early spring and having acrid emetic properties. rootstock used as a stimulant and expectorant
pluteus aurantiorugosus;an agaric with a brilliant scarlet cap and a slender stalk
big tree plum;small tree of southwestern united states having purplish-red fruit sometimes cultivated as an ornamental for its large leaves
civet;catlike mammal typically secreting musk used in perfumes
sphecius speciosis;large black or rust-colored wasp that preys on cicadas
macronectes giganteus;large brownish petrel chiefly of antarctic seas
yellow bellied terrapin;freshwater turtle of united states and south america. frequently raised commercially. some young sold as pets
satyr orchid;orchid with broad ovate leaves and long-bracted green very irregular flowers
woodcreeper;any of numerous south and central american birds with a curved bill and stiffened tail feathers that climb and feed like woodpeckers
xylosma;shrub or small tree grown as an ornamental in mild climates for its neat evergreen foliage and fragrant late flowers. native of china
inky cap mushroom;having a cap that melts into an inky fluid after spores have matured
texas toad;nocturnal burrowing toad of mesquite woodland and prairies of the united states southwest
japan cedar;tall evergreen of japan and china yielding valuable soft wood
cephalotus follicularis;carnivorous perennial herb having a red-brown-marked green pitcher and hinged lid both with red edges. western australia
palo santo;south american tree of dry interior regions of argentina and paraguay having resinous heartwood used for incense
artiodactyl mammal;placental mammal having hooves with an even number of functional toes on each foot
redstart;flycatching warbler of eastern north america the male having bright orange on sides and wings and tail
galium boreale;north american stoloniferous perennial having white flowers. sometimes used as an ornamental
pituophis melanoleucus;bull snake of western north america that invades rodent burrows
green lacewing;pale green unpleasant-smelling lacewing fly having carnivorous larvae
perodicticus potto;a kind of lemur
quaking aspen;old world aspen with a broad much-branched crown. northwestern europe and siberia to north africa
common thyme;common aromatic garden perennial native to the western mediterranean. used in seasonings and formerly as medicine
trout;any of various game and food fishes of cool fresh waters mostly smaller than typical salmons
phasmid;large cylindrical or flattened mostly tropical insects with long strong legs that feed on plants. walking sticks and leaf insects
ceylon gooseberry;small shrubby spiny tree cultivated for its maroon-purple fruit with sweet purple pulp tasking like gooseberries. sri lanka and india
croton bug;small light-brown cockroach brought to united states from europe. a common household pest
dracaena;often cultivated for the decorative foliage
manzanita;evergreen tree of pacific north america having glossy leathery leaves and orange-red edible berries. wood used for furniture and bark for tanning
hound s tongue;perennial shrub of north america having coarse tongue-shaped leaves and pale-blue to purple flowers
wild morning glory;weakly climbing european perennial with white or pink flowers. naturalized in north america and an invasive weed
tree tomato;south american arborescent shrub having pale pink blossoms followed by egg-shaped reddish-brown edible fruit somewhat resembling a tomato in flavor
comstock s mealybug;asiatic insect introduced accidentally into united states. pest on citrus and apple trees
flindosa;tall australian timber tree yielding tough hard wood used for staves etc
bristlecone fir;a pyramidal fir of southwestern california having spiny pointed leaves and cone scales with long spines
peafowl;very large terrestrial southeast asian pheasant often raised as an ornamental bird
lory;small brightly colored australasian parrots having a brush-tipped tongue for feeding on nectar and soft fruits
thuja plicata;large valuable arborvitae of northwestern united states
caracal;of deserts of northern africa and southern asia
bird s foot violet;common violet of the eastern united states with large pale blue or purple flowers resembling pansies
fireweed;tall north american perennial with creeping rootstocks and narrow leaves and spikes of pinkish-purple flowers occurring in great abundance in burned-over areas or recent clearings. an important honey plant
mountain starwort;boreal or alpine sandwort
pinnatiped;aquatic carnivorous mammal having a streamlined body specialized for swimming with limbs modified as flippers
gyromitra gigas;a gyromitra with a large irregular stalk and fertile part that is yellow to brown and wrinkled. has early fruiting time
tasmanian devil;small ferocious carnivorous marsupial having a mostly black coat and long tail
atlantic sailfish;a kind of sailfish
cultivated rice;yields the staple food of 50 percent of world's population
mockingbird;long-tailed gray-and-white songbird of the southern united states able to mimic songs of other birds
aegilops triuncalis;european grass naturalized as a weed in north america. sharp-pointed seeds cause injury when eaten by livestock
sweet corn;corn whose young ears are sweet and suitable for eating as a vegetable
mantid;predacious long-bodied large-eyed insect of warm regions. rests with forelimbs raised as in prayer
hypericum ascyron;perennial shrub having large star-shaped yellow flowers in narrowly pyramidal cymes
marsupial mole;small burrowing australian marsupial that resembles a mole
painted sandgrouse;sandgrouse of india
star grass;perennial australian grass having numerous long spikes arranged like the vanes of a windmill
cohune palm;tropical american feather palm whose large nuts yield valuable oil and a kind of vegetable ivory
guinea pepper;west african plant bearing pungent peppery seeds
humulus americanus;native american plant sometimes confused with the european hop
grass frog;a common semiterrestrial european frog
actinomycete;any bacteria (some of which are pathogenic for humans and animals) belonging to the order actinomycetales
polygala paucifolia;common trailing perennial milkwort of eastern north america having leaves like wintergreen and usually rosy-purple flowers with winged sepals
swainsona greyana;shrubby perennial of southern australia having downy or woolly stems and undersides of leaves and racemes of red to pink flowers
adiantum capillus veneris;delicate maidenhair fern with slender shining black leaf stalks. cosmopolitan
blue darter;bluish-gray north american hawk having a darting flight
birthwort;creeping plant having curving flowers thought to resemble fetuses. native to europe. naturalized great britain and eastern north america
japan bittersweet;ornamental asiatic vine with showy orange-yellow fruit with a scarlet aril. naturalized in north america
siberian crab apple;asian wild crab apple cultivated in many varieties for it small acid usually red fruit used for preserving
hyphantria cunea;moth whose larvae are fall webworms
poriferan;primitive multicellular marine animal whose porous body is supported by a fibrous skeletal framework. usually occurs in sessile colonies
interrupted fern;north american fern having tall erect pinnate fronds and a few sporogenous pinnae at or near the center of the fertile fronds
soybean;a source of oil. used for forage and soil improvement and as food
fish geranium;an upright geranium having scalloped leaves with a broad color zone inside the margin and white or pink or red flowers
arrowroot;canna grown especially for its edible rootstock from which arrowroot starch is obtained
flowering ash;southern mediterranean ash having fragrant white flowers in dense panicles and yielding manna
canada jay;gray jay of northern north america with black-capped head and no crest. noted for boldness in thievery
potato vine;vine of costa rica sparsely armed with hooklike spines and having large lilac-blue flowers
urtica pipulifera;annual european nettle with stinging foliage and small clusters of green flowers
carpet moth;larvae feed on carpets and other woolens
canis lupus;brindled gray wolf of forested northern regions of north america
sparling;the common smelt of europe
booster rocket;the first stage of a multistage rocket
zebra mussel;inch-long mollusk imported accidentally from europe. clogs utility inlet pipes and feeds on edible freshwater mussels
clupeid;any of numerous soft-finned schooling food fishes of shallow waters of northern seas
chantarelle;widely distributed edible mushroom rich yellow in color with a smooth cap and a pleasant apricot aroma
spruce pine;large 2-needled pine of southeastern united states with light soft wood
silk grass;valuable forage grass of dry upland areas and plains of western north america to northern mexico
cherrystone clam;a half-grown quahog
mahogany;any of various tropical timber trees of the family meliaceae especially the genus swietinia valued for their hard yellowish- to reddish-brown wood that is readily worked and takes a high polish
poinciana pulcherrima;tropical shrub or small tree having showy yellow to orange-red flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
rhus laurina;small aromatic evergreen shrub of california having paniculate leaves and whitish berries. in some classifications included in genus rhus
autotrophic organism;plant capable of synthesizing its own food from simple organic substances
absinthe;aromatic herb of temperate eurasia and north africa having a bitter taste used in making the liqueur absinthe
comptonia peregrina;deciduous shrub of eastern north america with scented fernlike leaves and catkin-like heads of tiny white flowers
opossum;nocturnal arboreal marsupial having a naked prehensile tail found from southern north america to northern south america
captive;an animal that is confined
saltwort;low-growing strong-smelling coastal shrub of warm parts of the new world having unisexual flowers in conelike spikes and thick succulent leaves
kurchee;tropical asian tree with hard white wood and bark formerly used as a remedy for dysentery and diarrhea
blackmouth bass;small marine fish with black mouth and gill cavity
phallus impudicus;a common fungus formerly used in preparing a salve for rheumatism
ciliate;a protozoan with a microscopic appendage extending from the surface of the cell
wort;usually used in combination: 'liverwort'. 'milkwort'. 'whorlywort'
anthriscus cereifolium;aromatic annual old world herb cultivated for its finely divided and often curly leaves for use especially in soups and salads
cassia;any of various trees or shrubs of the genus cassia having pinnately compound leaves and usually yellow flowers followed by long seedpods
cursed crowfoot;annual herb growing in marshy places
prunus dulcis;small bushy deciduous tree native to asia and north africa having pretty pink blossoms and highly prized edible nuts enclosed in a hard green hull. cultivated in southern australia and california
tea;extensively cultivated in e.g. china and japan and india. source of tea leaves
bedding geranium;an upright geranium having scalloped leaves with a broad color zone inside the margin and white or pink or red flowers
fritillaria mutica;herb of northwestern america having green-and-purple bell-shaped flowers
river dolphin;any of several long-snouted usually freshwater dolphins of south america and southern asia
bladder worm;encysted saclike larva of the tapeworm
partridge;heavy-bodied small-winged south american game bird resembling a gallinaceous bird but related to the ratite birds
pilot blacksnake;large harmless shiny black north american snake
archiannelid;small primitive marine worm lacking external segmentation and resembling polychaete larvae
pond scum parasite;an aquatic fungus of genus synchytriaceae that is parasitic on pond scum
pollack;important food and game fish of northern seas especially north atlantic. related to cod
samba;large west african tree having large palmately lobed leaves and axillary cymose panicles of small white flowers and one-winged seeds. yields soft white to pale yellow wood
firebird;tropical american flycatcher found as far north as southern texas and arizona. adult male has bright scarlet and black plumage
celeriac;grown for its thickened edible aromatic root
press;any machine that exerts pressure to form or shape or cut materials or extract liquids or compress solids
greater stitchwort;low-growing north temperate herb having small white star-shaped flowers. named for its alleged ability to ease sharp pains in the side
campanula aparinoides;bellflower common in marshes of eastern north america having lanceolate linear leaves and small whitish flowers
compass flower;any of several plants having leaves so arranged on the axis as to indicate the cardinal points of the compass
scented fern;sweetly scented african fern with narrow bipinnate fronds
sea cow;any of two families of large herbivorous aquatic mammals with paddle-shaped tails and flipper-like forelimbs and no hind limbs
flesh fly;fly whose larvae feed on carrion or the flesh of living animals
bush baby;agile long-tailed nocturnal african lemur with dense woolly fur and large eyes and ears
alderfly;dark-colored insect having predaceous aquatic larvae
hellgrammiate;large brown aquatic larva of the dobsonfly. used as fishing bait
golden calla;any of several callas of the genus zantedeschia having yellow spathes
bee balm;perennial herb of north america
horse mushroom;coarse edible mushroom with a hollow stem and abroad white cap
mallee fowl;australian moundbird. incubates eggs naturally in sandy mounds
homarus vulgaris;lobster of atlantic coast of europe
bog rose;a bog orchid with usually a solitary fragrant magenta pink blossom with a wide-gaping corolla. canada
protoceratops;small horned dinosaur
malvasia;used to make malmsey wine
bletia striata;japanese orchid with white-striped leaves and slender erect racemes of rose to magenta flowers. often cultivated. sometimes placed in genus bletia
potato fungus;fungus causing a disease in potatoes characterized by black scurfy spots on the tubers
fall blooming hydrangea;deciduous shrub or small tree with pyramidal flower clusters
mara;hare-like rodent of the pampas of argentina
asiatic cockroach;dark brown cockroach originally from orient now nearly cosmopolitan in distribution
elaeagnus augustifolia;deciduous shrubby tree of europe and western asia having gray leaves and small yellow fruits covered in silvery scales. sometimes spiny
harvester;gathers a food crop from the fields
canarybird flower;a climber having canary-colored flowers
hedera helix;old world vine with lobed evergreen leaves and black berrylike fruits
sulphur butterfly;any of numerous yellow or orange butterflies
jerusalem artichoke sunflower;tall perennial with hairy stems and leaves. widely cultivated for its large irregular edible tubers
nothosaur;extinct marine reptile with longer more slender limbs than plesiosaurs and less completely modified for swimming
coyol palm;tropical american palm having edible nuts and yielding a useful fiber
monitor;any of various large tropical carnivorous lizards of africa asia and australia. fabled to warn of crocodiles
meadow mouse;widely distributed in grasslands of northern united states and canada
mastiff bat;nasoft-furred chocolate-brown bat with folded ears and small wings that often runs along the ground
scammony;twining plant of asia minor having cream to purple flowers and long thick roots yielding a cathartic resin
barking frog;of southwest united states and mexico. call is like a dog's bark
fish doctor;brightly colored scaleless arctic eelpout
frijol;the common bean plant grown for the beans rather than the pods especially a variety with large red kidney-shaped beans
purple anise;small shrubby tree with purple flowers. found in wet soils of southeastern united states
house cat;any domesticated member of the genus felis
indian arrowroot;perennial herb of east india to polynesia and australia cultivated for its large edible root yielding otaheite arrowroot starch
rhizopodan;protozoa characterized by a pseudopod
cactus mouse;burrowing mouse of desert areas of southwestern united states
leopard s bane;any of several herbs of the genus dononicum having alternate often clasping stem leaves cultivated for their long stalks of yellow flower heads
pygmy marmoset;the smallest monkey. of tropical forests of the amazon
swallow shrike;australasian and asiatic bird related to the shrikes and resembling a swallow
algarroba bean;long pod containing small beans and sweetish edible pulp. used as animal feed and source of a chocolate substitute
common winterberry holly;a holly shrub
hammer;a power tool for drilling rocks
anapsid;primitive reptile having no opening in the temporal region of the skull. all extinct except turtles
soy;erect bushy hairy annual herb having trifoliate leaves and purple to pink flowers. extensively cultivated for food and forage and soil improvement but especially for its nutritious oil-rich seeds. native to asia
asclepias incarnata;densely branching perennial of the eastern united states with white to crimson or purple flowers
california romero;aromatic wooly-leaved plant of southern california and mexico
gorgonian coral;corals having a horny of calcareous branching skeleton
rattlesnake;pit viper with horny segments at the end of the tail that rattle when shaken
peltiphyllum peltatum;rhizomatous perennial herb with large dramatic peltate leaves and white to bright pink flowers in round heads on leafless stems. colonizes stream banks in the california sierra nevada
lady s eardrops;erect or climbing shrub of brazil with deep pink to red flowers
taricha torosa;newt that is similar to taricha granulosa in characteristics and habitat
dirca palustris;deciduous shrub of eastern north america having tough flexible branches and pliable bark and small yellow flowers
pimenta dioica;aromatic west indian tree that produces allspice berries
chilean strawberry;wild strawberry of western united states and south america. source of many varieties of cultivated strawberries
olearia argophylla;musk-scented shrub or tree of southern and southeastern australia having creamy-yellow flower heads
autophyte;plant capable of synthesizing its own food from simple organic substances
leaf beet;beet lacking swollen root. grown as a vegetable for its edible leaves and stalks
ovis vignei;bearded reddish sheep of southern asia
calliopsis;north american annual widely cultivated for its yellow flowers with purple-red to brownish centers. in some classifications placed in a subgenus calliopsis
warrigal;wolflike yellowish-brown wild dog of australia
sophora japonica;handsome round-headed deciduous tree having compound dark green leaves and profuse panicles of fragrant creamy-white flowers. china and japan
dreissena polymorpha;inch-long mollusk imported accidentally from europe. clogs utility inlet pipes and feeds on edible freshwater mussels
fox grape;native grape of northeastern united states. origin of many cultivated varieties e.g. concord grapes
typewriter;hand-operated machine for printing written messages one character at a time
bison bison;large shaggy-haired brown bison of north american plains
american larch;medium-sized larch of canada and northern united states including alaska having a broad conic crown and rust-brown scaly bark
hudson bay collared lemming;of northern canada
rock brake;dwarf deciduous lithophytic ferns
stachys sylvatica;foul-smelling perennial eurasiatic herb with a green creeping rhizome
protomammal;probably warm-blooded. considered direct ancestor of mammals
downy yellow violet;violet of eastern north america having softly pubescent leaves and stems and clear yellow flowers with brown-purple veins
pakchoi;asiatic plant grown for its cluster of edible white stalks with dark green leaves
cantharellus floccosus;a mildly poisonous fungus with a fruiting body shaped like a hollow trumpet
trifolium pratense;erect to decumbent short-lived perennial having red-purple to pink flowers. the most commonly grown forage clover
myrmecophaga jubata;large shaggy-haired toothless anteater with long tongue and powerful claws. of south america
bee fly;hairy nectar-eating fly that resembles a bee. larvae are parasitic on larvae of bees and related insects
brant;small dark geese that breed in the north and migrate southward
puckerbush;evergreen aromatic shrubby tree of southeastern united states having small hard berries thickly coated with white wax used for candles
rattlesnake fern;american fern whose clustered sporangia resemble a snake's rattle
quercus mongolica;oak with moderately light fine-grained wood. japan
vegetable hummingbird;soft-wooded tree with lax racemes of usually red or pink flowers. tropical australia and asia. naturalized in southern florida and west indies
calender;a machine that smoothes or glazes paper or cloth by pressing it between plates or passing it through rollers
mud turtle;bottom-dwelling freshwater turtle inhabiting muddy rivers of north and central america
thecodont reptile;presumably in the common ancestral line to dinosaurs and crocodiles and birds
liatris pycnostachya;perennial of southeastern and central united states having very dense spikes of purple flowers. often cultivated for cut flowers
flat pea;evergreen shrub having almost heart-shaped foliage and bright yellow pealike flowers followed by flat pods with flat wings. australia and tasmania
dwarf spurge;european erect or depressed annual weedy spurge adventive in northeastern united states
tufted gentian;small blue-flowered fringed gentian of sierra nevada mountains
holly leaf cherry;california evergreen wild plum with spiny leathery leaves and white flowers
colorado river hemp;tall-growing annual of southwestern united states widely grown as green manure. yields a strong tough bast fiber formerly used by indians for cordage
himalayan lilac;robust upright shrub of mountains of northern india having oblong-eliptic leaves and pale lilac or white malodorous flowers
european elder;common black-fruited shrub or small tree of europe and asia. fruit used for wines and jellies
manatee;sirenian mammal of tropical coastal waters of america. the flat tail is rounded
scorpaenid fish;any of numerous carnivorous usually bottom-dwelling warm-water marine fishes found worldwide but most abundant in the pacific
pinus radiata;tall california pine with long needles in bunches of 3, a dense crown, and dark brown deeply fissured bark
evergreen wood fern;north american fern with evergreen fronds
angel s trumpet;south american plant cultivated for its large fragrant trumpet-shaped flowers
morel;any of various edible mushrooms of the genus morchella having a brownish spongelike cap
green lizard;a common eurasian lizard about a foot long
viscid mushroom;one of the most important fungi cultivated in japan
pityrogramma argentea;fern of southern tropical africa having fronds with white undersides
indigofera tinctoria;deciduous subshrub of southeastern asia having pinnate leaves and clusters of red or purple flowers. a source of indigo dye
sand snake;small north american burrowing snake
crotalus scutulatus;extremely dangerous. most common in areas of scattered scrubby growth. from mojave desert to w. texas and into mexico
pachysandra;any plant of the genus pachysandra. low-growing evergreen herbs or subshrubs having dentate leaves and used as ground cover
rhino;massive powerful herbivorous odd-toed_ungulate of southeast asia and africa having very thick skin and one or two horns on the snout
stephanotis;any of various evergreen climbing shrubs of the genus stephanotis having fragrant waxy flowers
iridoprocne bicolor;bluish-green-and-white north american swallow. nests in tree cavities
phyllocladus trichomanoides;medium-tall celery pine of new zealand
gobio gobio;small slender european freshwater fish often used as bait by anglers
american sycamore;very large spreading plane tree of eastern and central north america to mexico
threadleaf groundsel;bluish-green bushy leafy plant covered with close white wool and bearing branched clusters of yellow flower heads. southwestern united states. toxic to range livestock
horned rattlesnake;small pale-colored desert rattlesnake of southwestern united states. body moves in an s-shaped curve
choeronycteris mexicana;small-eared mexican bat with a long slender nose
ylang ylang;evergreen asian tree with aromatic greenish-yellow flowers yielding a volatile oil. widely grown in the tropics as an ornamental
musteline mammal;fissiped fur-bearing carnivorous mammals
temple tree;frangipani of india having an erect habit and conical form. grown in temple gardens
carcharias taurus;shallow-water shark with sharp jagged teeth found on both sides of atlantic. sometimes dangerous to swimmers
verpa bohemica;resembles a thimble on a finger. the surface of the fertile portion is folded into wrinkles that extend from the top down. fruiting begins in spring before the leaves are out on the trees
beech fern;any fern of the genus phegopteris having deeply cut triangular fronds
sapphire berry;deciduous shrub of eastern asia bearing decorative bright blue fruit
theropod;any of numerous carnivorous dinosaurs of the triassic to cretaceous with short forelimbs that walked or ran on strong hind legs
eastern hemlock;common forest tree of the eastern united states and canada. used especially for pulpwood
conenose;large bloodsucking bug
tracheophyte;green plant having a vascular system: ferns, gymnosperms, angiosperms
muskrat;beaver-like aquatic rodent of north america with dark glossy brown fur
balistes vetula;tropical atlantic fish
tsine;wild ox of the malay archipelago
euphagus carilonus;north american blackbird whose bluish-black plumage is rusty-edged in the fall
ladybug;small round bright-colored and spotted beetle that usually feeds on aphids and other insect pests
damselfish;small brilliantly colored tropical marine fishes of coral reefs
lady s laces;perennial grass of marshy meadows and ditches having broad leaves. europe and north america
hoary plantain;widely distributed old world perennial naturalized in north america having finely hairy leaves and inconspicuous white fragrant flowers
silver fern;tropical american fern having fronds with white undersides
winter melon vine;any of a variety of muskmelon vines having fruit with a smooth white rind and white or greenish flesh that does not have a musky smell
equus caballus;solid-hoofed herbivorous quadruped domesticated since prehistoric times
physostegia;any of various plants of the genus physostegia having sessile linear to oblong leaves and showy white or rose or lavender flowers
black mallee;small mallee with rough dark-colored bark toward the butt yielding a red eucalyptus kino
groundfish;fish that live on the sea bottom especially commercially important gadoid fishes like cod and haddock or flatfish like flounder
austrian winter pea;variety of pea plant native to the mediterranean region and north africa and widely grown especially for forage
butcher s broom;shrub with stiff-pointed flattened stems resembling leaves (cladophylls). used for making brooms
chard;beet lacking swollen root. grown as a vegetable for its edible leaves and stalks
greater yellowlegs;a variety of yellowlegs
water clover;water fern of europe and asia and the eastern united states distinguished by four clover-like leaflets
peromyscus leucopus;american woodland mouse with white feet and underparts
star glory;tropical american annual climber having red (sometimes white) flowers and finely dissected leaves. naturalized in united states and elsewhere
peony;any of numerous plants widely cultivated for their showy single or double red or pink or white flowers
biped;an animal with two feet
five point bishop s cap;small plant with leaves in a basal cluster and tiny greenish flowers in slender racemes. northwestern north america to california and colorado
scentless camomile;ubiquitous european annual weed with white flowers and finely divided leaves naturalized and sometimes cultivated in eastern north america. sometimes included in genus matricaria
crab apple;any of numerous wild apple trees usually with small acid fruit
scarlet runner bean;tropical american high-climbing bean with red flowers and mottled black beans similar to phaseolus_vulgaris but perennial. a preferred food bean in g britain
nabalus serpentarius;common perennial herb widely distributed in the southern and eastern united states having drooping clusters of pinkish flowers and thick basal leaves suggesting a lion's foot in shape. sometimes placed in genus prenanthes
huisache;tropical american thorny shrub or small tree. fragrant yellow flowers used in making perfumery
rheumatism weed;north american perennial having pinkish flowers in loose cymes. used in folk medicine for pain or inflammation in joints
sophora sinensis;handsome round-headed deciduous tree having compound dark green leaves and profuse panicles of fragrant creamy-white flowers. china and japan
swordfish;large toothless marine food fish with a long swordlike upper jaw. not completely cold-blooded i.e. they are able to warm their brains and eyes: worldwide in warm waters but feed on cold ocean floor coming to surface at night
slender lady palm;chinese lady palm with more slender stems and finer sheath fibers than rhapis excelsa
wild hydrangea;deciduous shrub with creamy white flower clusters. eastern united states
oak blight;a black plant louse that lives on oaks and dogwoods
frog;any of various tailless stout-bodied amphibians with long hind limbs for leaping. semiaquatic and terrestrial species
carragheen;dark purple edible seaweed of the atlantic coasts of europe and north america
ungulata;in former classifications a major division of mammalia comprising all hoofed mammals. now divided into the orders perissodactyla (odd-toed ungulates) and artiodactyla (even-toed ungulates)
beefalo;hardy breed of cattle resulting from crossing domestic cattle with the american buffalo. yields leaner beef than conventional breeds
silverrod;plant of eastern north america having creamy white flowers
cartagena bark;colombian tree. source of cartagena bark (a cinchona bark)
gopher;burrowing rodent of the family geomyidae having large external cheek pouches. of central america and southwestern north america
lewisia cotyledon;evergreen perennial having a dense basal rosette of long spatula-shaped leaves and panicles of pink or white-and-red-striped or pink-purple flowers. found on cliffs and in rock crevices in mountains of southwestern oregon and northern california
elephant s ear;tropical south american tree having a wide-spreading crown of bipinnate leaves and coiled ear-shaped fruits. grown for shade and ornament as well as valuable timber
arctic skua;a variety of jaeger
sawyer beetle;any of several beetles whose larvae bore holes in dead or dying trees especially conifers
rheum rhabarbarum;long-cultivated hybrid of rheum palmatum. stems often cooked in pies or as sauce or preserves
streptopelia risoria;grayish old world turtledove with a black band around the neck. often caged
cucumis melo inodorus;any of a variety of muskmelon vines having fruit with a smooth white rind and white or greenish flesh that does not have a musky smell
fairy lantern;any of several plants of the genus calochortus having egg-shaped flowers
ichneumon;north african mongoose. in ancient times thought to devour crocodile eggs
lady crab;brightly spotted crab of sandy beaches of the united states atlantic coast
brush tailed porcupine;porcupine with a tuft of large beaded bristles on the tail
red silver fir;medium to tall fir of western north america having a conic crown and branches in tiers. leaves smell of orange when crushed
bluetick;a very fast american hound. white mottled with bluish gray
saurel;a california food fish
action plant;prostrate or semi-erect subshrub of tropical america, and australia. heavily armed with recurved thorns and having sensitive soft gray-green leaflets that fold and droop at night or when touched or cooled
cystopteris montana;fern of rocky mountainous areas of hemisphere
bird of passage;any bird that migrates seasonally
pilosella officinarum;european hawkweed having soft hairy leaves. sometimes placed in genus hieracium
chinese mushroom;small tropical and subtropical edible mushroom having a white cap and long stem. an expensive delicacy in china and other asian countries where it is grown commercially
agropyron pauciflorum;north american grass cultivated in western united states as excellent forage crop
slicer;a mechanical device for cutting. usually with a revolving blade
fissiped mammal;terrestrial carnivores. having toes separated to the base: dogs. cats. bears. badgers. raccoons
marigold;any of various tropical american plants of the genus tagetes widely cultivated for their showy yellow or orange flowers
pharaoh ant;small red ant of warm regions. a common household pest
lavatera arborea;arborescent perennial shrub having palmately lobed furry leaves and showy red-purple flowers. southwestern united states
carpet bug;small beetle whose larvae are household pests feeding on woolen fabrics
gray polypody;fern growing on rocks or tree trunks and having fronds grayish and scurfy below. americas and south africa
pinesap;fleshy tawny or reddish saprophytic herb resembling the indian pipe and growing in woodland humus of eastern north america. in some classifications placed in a separate genus hypopitys
lumpenus lumpretaeformis;found in arctic and north atlantic
common reed;tall north american reed having relative wide leaves and large plumelike panicles. widely distributed in moist areas. used for mats, screens and arrow shafts
sei whale;similar to but smaller than the finback whale
eruca sativa;erect european annual often grown as a salad crop to be harvested when young and tender
flathead;pallid bottom-dwelling flat-headed fish with large eyes and a duck-like snout
grape fern;a fern of the genus botrychium having a fertile frond bearing small grapelike clusters of spore cases
centipede;chiefly nocturnal predacious arthropod having a flattened body of 15 to 173 segments each with a pair of legs the foremost being modified into poison fangs
typha latifolia;tall marsh plant with pokerlike seed heads that explode when mature shedding large quantities of down. its long flat leaves are used for making mats and chair seats. of north america, europe, asia and north africa
spiny talinum;low cushion-forming plant with rose to crimson-magenta flowers and leaf midribs that persist as spines when the leaves die. southwestern united states
water nymph;a water lily having large leaves and showy fragrant flowers that float on the water. of temperate and tropical regions
japanese brome;grass of mediterranean and temperate asia
mentha piperita;herb with downy leaves and small purple or white flowers that yields a pungent oil used as a flavoring
dry rot;a fungus causing dry rot
jambosa;tropical tree of the east indies cultivated for its edible fruit
tree fern;any of numerous usually tropical ferns having a woody trunklike stem or caudex and crown of large fronds. especially australia and new zealand. chiefly of the families cyatheaceae and marattiaceae but some from polypodiaceae
button tree;evergreen tree or shrub with fruit resembling buttons and yielding heavy hard compact wood
pyxie;creeping evergreen shrub having narrow overlapping leaves and early white star-shaped flowers. of pine barrens of nj and the carolinas
american harvest mouse;any of several small grayish new world mice inhabiting e.g. grain fields
vigna unguiculata;sprawling old world annual cultivated especially in southern united states for food and forage and green manure
dolichotis patagonum;hare-like rodent of the pampas of argentina
carya myristiciformis;hickory of southern united states and mexico having hard nutmeg-shaped nuts
paper wasp;any of several social wasps that construct nests of a substance like paper
palm tree;any plant of the family palmae
huntsman s horns;pitcher plant of southeastern united states having erect wide-mouth yellow trumpet-shaped pitchers with erect lids
anchovy;small herring-like plankton-feeding fishes often canned whole or as paste. abundant in tropical waters worldwide
darkling groung beetle;sluggish hard-bodied black terrestrial weevil whose larvae feed on e.g. decaying plant material or grain
bee;any of numerous hairy-bodied insects including social and solitary species
bellwether;sheep that leads the herd often wearing a bell
yellow lady slipper;maroon to purple-brown orchid with yellow lip. europe, north america and japan
fetid bugbane;bugbane of siberia and eastern asia having ill-smelling green-white flowers
bubble shell;marine gastropod mollusk having a very small thin shell
pear;old world tree having sweet gritty-textured juicy fruit. widely cultivated in many varieties
cucurbita maxima;any of several winter squash plants producing large grayish-green football-shaped fruit with a rough warty rind
redroot;perennial woodland native of north america having a red root and red sap and bearing a solitary lobed leave and white flower in early spring and having acrid emetic properties. rootstock used as a stimulant and expectorant
indian millet;valuable forage grass of dry upland areas and plains of western north america to northern mexico
cranberry;any of numerous shrubs of genus_vaccinium bearing cranberries
sweet calamus;perennial marsh plant having swordlike leaves and aromatic roots
ardisia crenata;shrub with coral-red berries. japan to northern india
juglans californica;medium-sized tree with somewhat aromatic compound leaves and edible nuts
notoryctus typhlops;small burrowing australian marsupial that resembles a mole
agropyron intermedium;asiatic grass introduced into united states rangelands for pasture and fodder
high bush blueberry;high-growing deciduous shrub of eastern north america bearing edible blueish to blackish berries with a distinct bloom. source of most cultivated blueberries
griselinia lucida;south american shrub or small tree having long shining evergreen leaves and panicles of green or yellow flowers
wild ox;any of various wild bovines especially of the genera bos or closely related bibos
brodiaea;any of several plants of the genus brodiaea having basal grasslike leaves and globose flower heads on leafless stems resembling those of genus allium
centaurea cineraria;a plant having leaves and stems covered with dust-like down
euonymus americanus;upright deciduous plant with crimson pods and seeds. the eastern united states from new york to florida and texas
pterocarpus marsupium;east indian tree yielding a resin or extract often used medicinally and in e.g. tanning
aquatic plant;a plant that grows partly or wholly in water whether rooted in the mud, as a lotus, or floating without anchorage, as the water hyacinth
toadflax;common european perennial having showy yellow and orange flowers. a naturalized weed in north america
skye terrier;scottish breed of terrier with shaggy hair and long low body with short legs
flint maize;corn having kernels with a hard outer layer enclosing the soft endosperm
red dagga;relatively nontoxic south african herb smoked like tobacco
ant lion;the larva of an ant lion or of any of several other insects
foxtail;grasses of the genera alopecurus and setaria having dense silky or bristly brushlike flowering spikes
blue daisy;hairy south african or australian subshrub with blue-rayed daisylike flowers
pyrola elliptica;north american evergreen with small pinkish bell-shaped flowers and oblong leaves used formerly for shinplasters
prickly lettuce;european annual wild lettuce having prickly stems. a troublesome weed in parts of united states
breadfruit tree;native to pacific islands and having edible fruit with a texture like bread
aedes albopictus;striped native of japan thriving in united states southeast and midwest and spreading to the caribbean. potential carrier of serious diseases
sausage hound;informal term
pelecanus erythrorhynchos;large american pelican. white with black wing feathers
cat s foot;low-growing perennial herb having leaves with whitish down and clusters of small white flowers
cupressus abramsiana;rare california cypress taller than but closely related to gowen cypress and sometimes considered the same species
gadoid fish;a soft-finned fish of the family gadidae
bull shark;a most common shark in temperate and tropical coastal waters worldwide. heavy-bodied and dangerous
lady fern;most widely grown fern of the genus athyrium for its delicate foliage
souari;large south american evergreen tree trifoliate leaves and drupes with nutlike seeds used as food and a source of cooking oil
european white lily;a water lily with white flowers
barrelfish;blackish fish of new england waters
redwing;small european thrush having reddish flanks
silver fox;red fox in the color phase when its pelt is tipped with white
dickeybird;(informal) small bird. adults talking to children sometimes call small birds dickeybirds
camomile;eurasian plant apple-scented foliage and white-rayed flowers and feathery leaves used medicinally. in some classification systems placed in genus anthemis
mackerel shad;small silvery fish. nova scotia to brazil
purple avens;north american perennial with hairy basal pinnate leaves and purple flowers and plume-tipped fruits
cypripedium arietinum;orchid of northern north america having a brownish-green flower and red-and-white lip suggestive of a ram's head
brassica nigra;widespread eurasian annual plant cultivated for its pungent seeds. a principal source of table mustard
big cone spruce;douglas fir of california having cones 4-8 inches long
creeping jenny;a loosestrife vine
solenogaster;deep-water wormlike mollusks lacking calcareous plates on the body but having fine slimy spicules on the covering mantle
tiger cat;medium-sized wildcat of central and south america having a dark-striped coat
antheraea mylitta;oriental moth that produces brownish silk
mastodont;extinct elephant-like mammal that flourished worldwide from miocene through pleistocene times. differ from mammoths in the form of the molar teeth
molluga verticillata;annual prostrate mat-forming weed having whorled leaves and small greenish-white flowers. widespread throughout north america
benghal bean;annual semi-woody vine of asia having long clusters of purplish flowers and densely hairy pods. cultivated in southern united states for green manure and grazing
leptodactylus pentadactylus;large toothed frog of south and central america resembling the bullfrog
encelia farinosa;fragrant rounded shrub of southwestern united states and adjacent mexico having brittle stems and small crowded blue-green leaves and yellow flowers. produces a resin used in incense and varnish and in folk medicine
quiaquia;small fusiform fish of western atlantic
cinnamomum zeylanicum;tropical asian tree with aromatic yellowish-brown bark. source of the spice cinnamon
pin oak;large nearly semi-evergreen oak of southeastern united states. thrives in damp soil
stercorarius parasiticus;a variety of jaeger
saucer magnolia;large deciduous shrub or small tree having large open rosy to purplish flowers. native to asia. prized as an ornamental in eastern north america
sugi;tall evergreen of japan and china yielding valuable soft wood
wild sarsaparilla;common perennial herb having aromatic roots used as a substitute for sarsaparilla. central and eastern north america
pedionomus torquatus;small australian bird related to the button quail. classified as wading bird but inhabits plains
lancewood tree;tropical american tree. valued for its hard durable wood
trumpet weed;north american herb having whorled leaves and terminal clusters of flowers spotted with purple
leaf beetle;brightly colored beetle that feeds on plant leaves. larvae infest roots and stems
whiting;a small fish of the genus sillago. excellent food fish
draft horse;horse adapted for drawing heavy loads
hottonia inflata;a featherfoil of the eastern united states with submerged spongy inflated flower stalks and white flowers
wild service tree;european tree bearing edible small speckled brown fruit
pomacentrus leucostictus;blue-and-yellow damselfish of bermuda florida and west indies
lesser ape;gibbons and siamangs
campanula americana;annual or perennial of eastern north america with long spikes of blue or white flowers
manila grass;lawn grass common in the philippines. grown also in united states
cnemidophorus velox;having distinct longitudinal stripes: of colorado plateau from arizona to western colorado
genus argentinosaurus;enormous dinosaur of the middle cretaceous found in argentina
capsicum annuum cerasiforme;plant bearing small rounded usually pungent fruits
helianthus tuberosus;tall perennial with hairy stems and leaves. widely cultivated for its large irregular edible tubers
monaul;brilliantly colored south asian pheasant
cayenne jasmine;commonly cultivated old world woody herb having large pinkish to red flowers
white beech;north american forest tree with light green leaves and edible nuts
wood thrush;large thrush common in eastern american woodlands. noted for its melodious song
toowomba canary grass;perennial grass of australia and south africa. introduced in north america as forage grass
anteater;toothless mammal of southern africa and asia having a body covered with horny scales and a long snout for feeding on ants and termites
taenia;tapeworms parasitic in humans which uses the pig as its intermediate host
kobus leche;tawny-colored african antelope inhabiting wet grassy plains. a threatened species
thick knee;large-headed large-eyed crepuscular or nocturnal shorebird of the old world and tropical america having a thickened knee joint
cilantro;old world herb with aromatic parsleylike leaves and seed
false miterwort;plant with tiny white flowers hanging in loose clusters on leafy stems. moist woods from alaska to central california and east to montana
missouri primrose;evening-opening primrose of south central united states
chamaecytisus palmensis;shrub of canary islands having bristle-tipped oblanceolate leaves. used as cattle fodder
alnus vulgaris;medium-sized tree with brown-black bark and woody fruiting catkins. leaves are hairy beneath
steed;(literary) spirited horse for state or war
prairie wake robin;trillium of central united states having dark purple sessile flowers
norway maple;a large eurasian maple tree naturalized in north america. 5-lobed leaves yellow in autumn. cultivated in many varieties
mountain ash;low-growning ash of texas
slater;any of various small terrestrial isopods having a flat elliptical segmented body. found in damp habitats
hooded skunk;of mexico and southernmost parts of southwestern united states
kei apple bush;vigorous south african spiny shrub grown for its round yellow juicy edible fruits
brittle bush;fragrant rounded shrub of southwestern united states and adjacent mexico having brittle stems and small crowded blue-green leaves and yellow flowers. produces a resin used in incense and varnish and in folk medicine
flying marmot;east indian flying squirrel
ocimum basilicum;annual or perennial of tropical asia having spikes of small white flowers and aromatic leave. one of the most important culinary herbs. used in salads, casseroles, sauces and some liqueurs
cat squirrel;common reddish-brown squirrel of europe and parts of asia
common barberry;upright deciduous european shrub widely naturalized in united states having clusters of juicy berries
stalked puffball;a variety of podaxaceae
salix arctica;low creeping shrub of arctic europe and america
ridgil;a colt with undescended testicles
ectozoon;any external parasitic organism (as fleas)
iguanid;lizards of the new world and madagascar and some pacific islands. typically having a long tail and bright throat patch in males
white elm;large ornamental tree with graceful gradually spreading branches common in eastern north america
coturnix communis;the typical old world quail
eel;voracious snakelike marine or freshwater fishes with smooth slimy usually scaleless skin and having a continuous vertical fin but no ventral fins
yacca podocarp;west indian evergreen with medium to long leaves
brit;minute crustaceans forming food for right whales
brewer s mountain heather;semi-prostrate evergreen herb of western united states
sinornis;sparrow-sized fossil bird of the upper jurassic to lower cretaceous having a keeled breastbone and vestigial tail. found in china. considered possibly the second most primitive of all birds
tree onion;type of perennial onion grown chiefly as a curiosity or for early salad onions. having bulbils that replace the flowers
cypress vine;tropical american annual climber having red (sometimes white) flowers and finely dissected leaves. naturalized in united states and elsewhere
fraxinus pennsylvanica;smallish american tree with velvety branchlets and lower leaf surfaces
cercidiphyllum japonicum;rapidly growing deciduous tree of low mountainsides of china and japan. grown as an ornamental for its dark blue-green candy-scented foliage that becomes yellow to scarlet in autumn
incense tree;any of various tropical trees of the family burseraceae yielding fragrant gums or resins that are burned as incense
sundew plant;any of various bog plants of the genus drosera having leaves covered with sticky hairs that trap and digest insects. cosmopolitan in distribution
lablab purpureus;perennial twining vine of old world tropics having trifoliate leaves and racemes of fragrant purple pealike flowers followed by maroon pods of edible seeds. grown as an ornamental and as a vegetable on the indian subcontinent. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
charadrius vociferus;american plover of inland waters and fields having a distinctive cry
mockernut hickory;smooth-barked north american hickory with 7 to 9 leaflets bearing a hard-shelled edible nut
vanda;any of numerous showy orchids of the genus vanda having many large flowers in loose racemes
psilophyton;any plant or fossil of the genus psilophyton
dolphin;large slender food and game fish widely distributed in warm seas (especially around hawaii)
uria aalge;the most frequent variety of murre
bug;insects with sucking mouthparts and forewings thickened and leathery at the base. usually show incomplete metamorphosis
tyrant bird;large american birds that characteristically catch insects on the wing
american arrowroot;white-flowered west indian plant whose root yields arrowroot starch
morone interrupta;north american freshwater bass resembling the larger marine striped bass
talapoin;smallest guenon monkey. of swampy central and west african forests
heuchera americana;plant with basal geranium-like leaves mottled with white and flowers in lax panicles on erect stems
sporobolus poiretii;grass native to west indies but common in southern united states having tufted wiry stems often infested with a dark fungus (helminthosporum_ravenelii)
springing cow;a cow about to give birth
heather;common old world heath represented by many varieties. low evergreen grown widely in the northern hemisphere
narthecium americanum;of the eastern united states: new jersey to south carolina
addressing machine;a printer that automatically prints addresses on letters for mailing
textile machine;a machine for making textiles
rotary engine;an engine in which power is transmitted directly to rotating components
killifish;small mostly marine warm-water carp-like schooling fishes. used as bait or aquarium fishes or in mosquito control
cannabis indica;source of e.g. bhang and hashish as well as fiber
wavy leaved aster;a variety of aster
fringed pink;eurasian perennial pink having fragrant lilac or rose flowers with deeply fringed margins
gobbler;male turkey
young fish;a fish that is young
egyptian pea;asiatic herb cultivated for its short pods with one or two edible seeds
mandarin orange;shrub or small tree having flattened globose fruit with very sweet aromatic pulp and thin yellow-orange to flame-orange rind that is loose and easily removed. native to southeastern asia
chafeweed;weedy perennial of north temperate regions having woolly foliage and dirty white flowers in a leafy spike
lamprey eel;primitive eellike freshwater or anadromous cyclostome having round sucking mouth with a rasping tongue
equetus pulcher;a kind of drumfish
haymaker;a farm machine that treats hay to cause more rapid and even drying
yellow colicroot;colicroot with yellow-bracted racemose flowers. smaller than aletris farinosa. southeastrn united states
whinberry;erect european blueberry having solitary flowers and blue-black berries
mallow;any of various plants of the family_malvaceae
loxia curvirostra;finch with a bill whose tips cross when closed
anemone occidentalis;of western north america
flounder;any of various european and non-european marine flatfish
white violet;tall north american perennial with heart-shaped leaves and purple-streaked white flowers
senega root;eastern north american plant having a terminal cluster of small white flowers and medicinal roots
brugmansia suaveolens;south american plant cultivated for its very large nocturnally fragrant trumpet-shaped flowers
lady s tobacco;north american perennial propagated by means of runners
tiger cowrie;cowrie whose shell is used for ornament
lanthanotus borneensis;a stout-bodied pleurodont lizard of borneo
avicennia officinalis;a small to medium-sized tree growing in brackish water especially along the shores of the southwestern pacific
alpine fir;medium-tall rocky mountain timber tree having a narrow-conic tocolumnar crown
red gram;tropical woody herb with showy yellow flowers and flat pods. much cultivated in the tropics
canary creeper;a climber having canary-colored flowers
fiesta flower;straggling california annual herb with deep purple or violet flowers. sometimes placed in genus nemophila
possumwood;medium-sized tree of dry woodlands in the southern and eastern united states bearing yellow or orange very astringent fruit that is edible when fully ripe
lightning bug;nocturnal beetle common in warm regions having luminescent abdominal organs
gladiola;any of numerous plants of the genus gladiolus native chiefly to tropical and south africa having sword-shaped leaves and one-sided spikes of brightly colored funnel-shaped flowers. widely cultivated
solidago bicolor;plant of eastern north america having creamy white flowers
cupressus lusitanica;tall spreading evergreen native to mexico having drooping branches. believed to have been introduced into portugal from goa its indian territory
puff adder;large african viper that inflates its body when alarmed
agrostis canina;common grass with slender stems and narrow leaves
amphipod;a kind of malacostracan crustacean
rupestrine plant;plants growing among rocks
stallion;uncastrated adult male horse
trautvetteria carolinensis;tall perennial of the eastern united states having large basal leaves and white summer flowers
stinking horehound;ill-smelling european herb with rugose leaves and whorls of dark purple flowers
moosewood;deciduous shrub of eastern north america having tough flexible branches and pliable bark and small yellow flowers
sweet flag;perennial marsh plant having swordlike leaves and aromatic roots
ozark chinkapin;shrubby tree closely related to the allegheny chinkapin but with larger leaves. southern midwest united states
chinese wistaria;having deep purple flowers
common coral tree;small south american spiny tree with dark crimson and scarlet flowers solitary or clustered
dita;evergreen tree of eastern asia and philippines having large leathery leaves and small green-white flowers in compact cymes. bark formerly used medicinally
pillwort;european water fern found around margins of bodies of water or in wet acid soil having small globose sporocarps
kosteletzya virginica;subshrub of southeastern united states to new york
nut pine;any of several pinons bearing edible nutlike seeds
baccharis halimifolia;a shrub of salt marshes of eastern and south central north america and west indies. fruit is surrounded with white plumelike hairy tufts
senecio milkanioides;south african succulent evergreen twining climber with yellow flowers grown primarily as a houseplant for its ivylike foliage. sometimes placed in genus senecio
lilyturf;asiatic perennial tufted herb with grasslike evergreen foliage and clusters of dark mauve grapelike flowers. grown as ground cover
chain printer;an impact printer that carries the type slugs by links of a revolving chain
apomict;a plant that reproduces or is reproduced by apomixis
canada balsam;medium-sized fir of northeastern north america. leaves smell of balsam when crushed. much used for pulpwood and christmas trees
ochotona princeps;north american pika
halobacter;halophiles in saline environments such as the dead sea or salt flats
lepista irina;an edible agaric with large silky white caps and thick stalks
perisoreus canadensis;gray jay of northern north america with black-capped head and no crest. noted for boldness in thievery
grenadier;deep-sea fish with a large head and body and long tapering tail
aythya marila;large scaup of north america having a greenish iridescence on the head of the male
true senna;erect shrub having racemes of tawny yellow flowers. the dried leaves are used medicinally as a cathartic. sometimes placed in genus cassia
erica carnea;dwarf european shrub with very early-blooming bell-shaped red flowers
head cabbage;any of various cultivated cabbage plants having a short thick stalk and large compact head of edible usually green leaves
medicago sativa;important european leguminous forage plant with trifoliate leaves and blue-violet flowers grown widely as a pasture and hay crop
rana pipiens;common north american green or brownish frog having white-edged dark oval spots
looking glass plant;small tree of coastal regions of old world tropics whose leaves are silvery beneath
chinese paddlefish;fish of larger rivers of china similar to the mississippi paddlefish
tarantula;large southern european spider once thought to be the cause of tarantism (uncontrollable bodily movement)
mirid;a variety of leaf bug
domestic sheep;any of various breeds raised for wool or edible meat or skin
pieris protodice;common north american form
hackmatack;poplar of northeastern north america with broad heart-shaped leaves
lupinus texensis;closely resembles lupinus_subcarnosus. southwestern united states (texas)
anomalops;fish having a luminous organ beneath eye. of warm waters of the western pacific and puerto rico
stone life face;any plant of the genus lithops native to africa having solitary yellow or white flowers and thick leaves that resemble stones
stanhopea;any of various orchids of the genus stanhopea having a single large leaf and loose racemes of large fragrant flowers of various colors. mexico to brazil
carya ovata;north american hickory having loose gray shaggy bark and edible nuts
cusk;elongate freshwater cod of northern europe and asia and north america having barbels around its mouth
wild spinach;common weedy european plant introduced into north america. often used as a potherb
sargasso;brown algae with rounded bladders forming dense floating masses in tropical atlantic waters as in the sargasso sea
lemonwood tree;source of a tough elastic wood
zingiber officinale;tropical asian plant widely cultivated for its pungent root. source of gingerroot and powdered ginger
brugmansia sanguinea;arborescent south american shrub having very large orange-red flowers
tuba root;woody vine having bright green leaves and racemes of rose-tinted white flowers. the swollen roots contain rotenone
cloudberry;creeping raspberry of north temperate regions with yellow or orange berries
loris gracilis;slim-bodied lemur of southern india and sri lanka
cleistes rosea;orchid of central and northern south america having 1- to 3-blossomed racemes of large showy rose-colored flowers. sometimes placed in genus pogonia
erica tetralix;dwarf european shrub with rose-colored flowers
actiniarian;any sea anemone or related animal
redbird flower;low tropical american shrub having powerful emetic properties
mayapple;north american herb with poisonous root stock and edible though insipid fruit
male;an animal that produces gametes (spermatozoa) that can fertilize female gametes (ova)
boojum tree;candlewood of mexico and southwestern california having tall columnar stems and bearing honey-scented creamy yellow flowers
flamingo plant;commonly cultivated anthurium having bright scarlet spathe and spadix
cortinarius corrugatus;a fungus with a viscid wrinkled tawny cap. the stalk has a basal bulb that diminishes as the stalk elongates. the gills are dark violet at first but soon turn brown
beef plant;south american plant having green to purple or red branches with green to purple ornamental foliage and spikes of insignificant woolly flowers with dry membranous bracts
moss locust;large shrub or small tree of the eastern united states having bristly stems and large clusters of pink flowers
maidenhair spleenwort;small rock-inhabiting fern of northern temperate zone and hawaii with pinnate fronds
rattan;climbing palm of sri lanka and southern india remarkable for the great length of the stems which are used for malacca canes
piscidia piscipula;small tree of west indies and florida having large odd-pinnate leaves and panicles of red-striped purple to white flowers followed by decorative curly winged seedpods. yields fish poisons
great white heron;large white heron of florida and the florida keys
upland plover;large plover-like sandpiper of north american fields and uplands
indian pipe;small waxy white or pinkish-white saprophytic woodland plant having scalelike leaves and a nodding flower. turns black with age
brassia verrucosa;central american orchid having spiderlike flowers with prominent green warts
grass vetch;annual european vetch with red flowers
saw;a power tool for cutting wood
coachwhip;a whipsnake of southern united states and mexico. tail resembles a braided whip
mangrove snapper;found in shallow waters off the coast of florida
encyclia citrina;mexican epiphytic orchid with glaucous gray-green leaves and lemon- to golden-yellow flowers appearing only partially opened. sometimes placed in genus cattleya
allium tuberosum;eastern asian plant. larger than allium_schoenoprasum
grass vetchling;annual european vetch with red flowers
nautilus;cephalopod of the indian and pacific oceans having a spiral shell with pale pearly partitions
flathead catfish;large catfish of central united states having a flattened head and projecting jaw
cordyline australis;elegant tree having either a single trunk or a branching trunk each with terminal clusters of long narrow leaves and large panicles of fragrant white, yellow or red flowers. new zealand
thuja orientalis;asiatic shrub or small tree widely planted in united states and europe. in some classifications assigned to its own genus platycladus
andropogon scoparius;handsome hardy north american grass with foliage turning pale bronze in autumn
balibago;shrubby tree widely distributed along tropical shores. yields a light tough wood used for canoe outriggers and a fiber used for cordage and caulk. often cultivated for ornament
st. bruno s lily;a variety of spiderwort
pteropogon humboltianum;southern australian plant having feathery hairs surrounding the fruit
tortrix;small indian moth infesting e.g. tea and coffee plants
sparrow;any of several small dull-colored singing birds feeding on seeds or insects
big game;large animals that are hunted for sport
sphenisciform seabird;flightless cold-water seabirds: penguins
air plant;plant that derives moisture and nutrients from the air and rain. usually grows on another plant but not parasitic on it
cypraea moneta;cowrie whose shell is used for money in parts of south pacific and africa
white lotus;white egyptian lotus: water lily of egypt to southeastern africa. held sacred by the egyptians
charity;pinnate-leaved european perennial having bright blue or white flowers
carolina parakeet;extinct parakeet whose range extended far into the united states
rose acacia;large shrub or small tree of the eastern united states having bristly stems and large clusters of pink flowers
velvet worm;any of numerous velvety-skinned wormlike carnivorous animals common in tropical forests having characteristics of both arthropods and annelid worms
blackbird;any bird of the family icteridae whose male is black or predominantly black
arctostaphylos uva ursi;evergreen mat-forming shrub of north america and northern eurasia having small white flowers and red berries. leaves turn red in autumn
hognose bat;small-eared mexican bat with a long slender nose
muntjac;small asian deer with small antlers and a cry like a bark
brussels griffon;breed of various very small compact wiry-coated dogs of belgian origin having a short bearded muzzle
sedge bird;small european warbler that breeds among reeds and wedges and winters in africa
rock elm;large ornamental tree with graceful gradually spreading branches common in eastern north america
sand stargazer;small pallid fishes of shoal tropical waters of north and south america having eyes on stalks atop head. they burrow in sand to await prey
european nut pine;medium-sized 2-needled pine of southern europe having a spreading crown. widely cultivated for its sweet almond-like seeds
showy daisy;plant having branching leafy stems each branch with an especially showy solitary flower head with many narrow pink or lavender or white rays. northwestern united states mountains
sweet sorghum;any of several sorghums cultivated as a source of syrup
tangelo;hybrid between grapefruit and mandarin orange. cultivated especially in florida
chimaphila umbellata;eurasian herb with white or pinkish flowers in a terminal corymb
kaffir bread;south african cycad. the farinaceous pith of the fruit used as food
egeria densa;aquatic plant with deep green foliage useful as an aquarium oxygenator. sometimes placed in genus egeria
banded anteater;small australian marsupial having long snout and strong claws for feeding on termites. nearly extinct
hygrophorus caeruleus;a fungus with a broadly convex cap that is cream color with a tint of blue over the margin. waxy gills are bluish green to blue-gray. a short stalk tapers abruptly at the base
odocoileus hemionus columbianus;mule deer of western rocky mountains
field bean;old world upright plant grown especially for its large flat edible seeds but also as fodder
theropod dinosaur;any of numerous carnivorous dinosaurs of the triassic to cretaceous with short forelimbs that walked or ran on strong hind legs
oenothera fruticosa;a day-flowering biennial or perennial of the genus oenothera
crested myna;dark brown crested bird of southeastern asia
cortinarius mutabilis;a fungus with a reddish purple cap having a smooth slimy surface. close violet gills. all parts stain dark purple when bruised
massasauga rattler;pygmy rattlesnake found in moist areas from the great lakes to mexico. feeds on mice and small amphibians
anthurium scherzerianum;commonly cultivated anthurium having bright scarlet spathe and spadix
cucumis sativus;a melon vine of the genus cucumis. cultivated from earliest times for its cylindrical green fruit
silk vine;deciduous climber for arches and fences having ill-scented but interesting flowers and poisonous yellow fruits. cultivated for its dark shining foliage. southeastern europe to asia minor
caribou;arctic deer with large antlers in both sexes. called reindeer in eurasia and caribou in north america
spotted black bass;a variety of black bass
stringybark;any of several australian eucalypts having fibrous inner bark
panonychus ulmi;small web-spinning mite. a serious orchard pest
taurotragus oryx;dark fawn-colored eland of south and east africa
seriola zonata;fish having the habit of following ships. found in north and south american coastal waters
carnauba;brazilian fan palm having an edible root. source of a useful leaf fiber and a brittle yellowish wax
gentianella amarella;gentian of europe and china having creamy white flowers with fringed corollas
difflugia;a protozoan with an ovoid shell of cemented sand grains
ringworm cassia;tropical shrub (especially of americas) having yellow flowers and large leaves whose juice is used as a cure for ringworm and poisonous bites. sometimes placed in genus cassia
alca torda;black-and-white north atlantic auk having a compressed sharp-edged bill
rhizopod;protozoa characterized by a pseudopod
dropseed;a grass of the genus sporobolus
cucumis melo reticulatus;a muskmelon vine with fruit that has a thin reticulated rind and sweet green flesh
maidenhair fern;any of various small to large terrestrial ferns of the genus adiantum having delicate palmately branched fronds
ostracoderm;extinct fishlike jawless vertebrate having a heavily armored body. of the paleozoic
canadian fleabane;common north american weed with linear leaves and small discoid heads of yellowish flowers. widely naturalized throughout temperate regions. sometimes placed in genus erigeron
orange tree;any citrus tree bearing oranges
cacalia javanica;tropical african annual having scarlet tassel-shaped flower heads. sometimes placed in genus cacalia
macowanites americanus;a small fungus with a fragile cap that cracks to expose the white context and a white stalk that is practically enclosed by the cap
richweed;a plants of the genus pilea having drooping green flower clusters and smooth translucent stems and leaves
vinegar tree;common nonpoisonous shrub of eastern north america with waxy compound leaves and green paniculate flowers followed by red berries
cabbage tree;tree with shaggy unpleasant-smelling toxic bark and yielding strong durable wood. bark and seeds used as a purgative and vermifuge and narcotic
tortricid moth;any of numerous small moths having lightly fringed wings. larvae are leafrollers or live in fruits and galls
bighorn sheep;wild sheep of mountainous regions of western north america having massive curled horns
marjoram;aromatic eurasian perennial
zebra tailed lizard;swift lizard with long black-banded tail and long legs. of deserts of united states and mexico
grasshopper;terrestrial plant-eating insect with hind legs adapted for leaping
mountain spinach;asiatic plant resembling spinach often used as a potherb. naturalized in europe and north america
maianthemum bifolium;small white-flowered plant of western europe to japan
frosted bat;common eurasian bat with white-tipped hairs in its coat
hippoboscid;blood-sucking dipterous fly parasitic on birds and mammals
winter mushroom;an edible agaric that is available in early spring or late fall when few other mushrooms are. has a viscid smooth orange to brown cap and a velvety stalk that turns black in maturity and pallid gills. often occur in clusters
bog bilberry;an evergreen shrub with leathery leaves
banded water snake;in some classifications placed in the genus nerodia. western united states snake that seldom ventures far from water
barn swallow;common swallow of north america and europe that nests in barns etc.
homer;pigeon trained to return home
climber;a vine or climbing plant that readily grows up a support or over other plants
nutcracker;any of various small short-tailed sharp-beaked birds that creep on trees and feed on small nuts and insects
tannia;tropical american aroid having edible tubers that are cooked and eaten like yams or potatoes
hymenoxys acaulis;perennial having tufted basal leaves and short leafless stalks each bearing a solitary yellow flower head. dry hillsides and plains of west central north america. sometimes placed in genus hymenoxys
reduviid;a true bug: long-legged predacious bug living mostly on other insects. a few suck blood of mammals
sciurus griseus;large gray squirrel of far western areas of united states
proboscis flower;annual of southern united states to mexico having large whitish or yellowish flowers mottled with purple and a long curving beak
goosander;common merganser of europe and north america
angelica;any of various tall and stout herbs of the genus angelica having pinnately compound leaves and small white or greenish flowers in compound umbels
anas penelope;freshwater duck of eurasia and north africa related to mallards and teals
oyster crab;tiny soft-bodied crab living within the mantle cavity of oysters
rag gourd;any of several tropical annual climbers having large yellow flowers and edible young fruits. grown commercially for the mature fruit's dried fibrous interior that is used as a sponge
pasturage;succulent herbaceous vegetation of pasture land
ibizan hound;breed of slender agile medium-sized hound found chiefly in the balearic islands. said to have been bred originally by the pharaohs of ancient egypt
hyoscyamus muticus;leaves are a source of hyoscymine
gaillardia;any plant of western america of the genus gaillardia having hairy leaves and long-stalked flowers in hot vibrant colors from golden yellow and copper to rich burgundy
cherry birch;common birch of the eastern united states having spicy brown bark yielding a volatile oil and hard dark wood used for furniture
wild licorice;bedstraw with sweetish roots
white zinnia;subshrub with slender woolly stems and long narrow leaves and flower heads with white rays. southern united states and northern mexico
carpet snake;australian python with a variegated pattern on its back
eubacterium;a large group of bacteria having rigid cell walls. motile types have flagella
thermal printer;a printer that produces characters by applying heat to special heat-sensitive paper
stone plant;any plant of the genus lithops native to africa having solitary yellow or white flowers and thick leaves that resemble stones
matai;new zealand conifer
red fox;new world fox. often considered the same species las the old world fox
foeniculum vulgare;strongly aromatic with a smell of aniseed. leaves and seeds used for seasoning
human;any living or extinct member of the family hominidae
white fox;thickly-furred fox of arctic regions. brownish in summer and white in winter
spike heath;small evergreen mat-forming shrub of southern europe and asia minor having stiff stems and terminal clusters of small bell-shaped flowers
cedrus deodara;tall east indian cedar having spreading branches with nodding tips. highly valued for its appearance as well as its timber
pistachio;small tree of southern europe and asia minor bearing small hard-shelled nuts
ord kangaroo rat;most widely distributed kangaroo rat: plains and mountain areas of central and western united states
orach;any of various herbaceous plants of the genus atriplex that thrive in deserts and salt marshes
andaman marble;large asiatic tree having hard marbled zebrawood
sea lamprey;large anadromous lamprey sometimes used as food. destructive of native fish fauna in the great lakes
pot marjoram;aromatic eurasian perennial
lanius borealis;butcherbird of northern north american
giant moa;the largest moa. about 12 feet high
naja naja;of tropical africa and asia
conic morel;a morel whose pitted fertile body is attached to the stalk with little free skirt around it. the fertile body is gray when young and black in old age
mountain zebra;narrow-striped nearly extinct zebra of southern africa
yellow lupine;yellow-flowered european lupine cultivated for forage
new world blackbird;any bird of the family icteridae whose male is black or predominantly black
freshwater limpet;minute conical gastropod superficially resembling a limpet but living and feeding on freshwater plants
asplenium ceterach;small european fern with chaffy leathery fronds
blackseed;grass native to west indies but common in southern united states having tufted wiry stems often infested with a dark fungus (helminthosporum_ravenelii)
cliff brake;any of several small lithophytic ferns of tropical and warm temperate regions
honey mushroom;a honey-colored edible mushroom commonly associated with the roots of trees in late summer and fall. do not eat raw
purple silkweed;perennial of eastern north america having pink-purple flowers
soya bean;erect bushy hairy annual herb having trifoliate leaves and purple to pink flowers. extensively cultivated for food and forage and soil improvement but especially for its nutritious oil-rich seeds. native to asia
white crappie;a crappie that is white
woodbine;common north american vine with compound leaves and bluish-black berrylike fruit
kidney wort;widely spreading evergreen shrub of southwestern united states with flower heads in a leafy panicle
resurrection plant;small gray asiatic desert plant bearing minute white flowers that rolls up when dry and expands when moist
ormosia coarctata;west indian tree similar to ormosia monosperma but larger and having smaller leaflets and smaller seeds
andean condor;large vulture of the high andes having black plumage and white neck ruff
st. peter s wreath;shrub having copious small white flowers in spring
dusty miller;a plant having leaves and stems covered with dust-like down
club fungus;a club-shaped coral fungus
mentha aquatica;a european mint that thrives in wet places. has a perfume like that of the bergamot orange. naturalized in eastern north america
madrepore;corals having calcareous skeletons aggregations of which form reefs and islands
elderberry;common black-fruited shrub or small tree of europe and asia. fruit used for wines and jellies
mutt;an inferior dog or one of mixed breed
onager;asiatic wild ass
ortilis vetula macalli;of mexico and texas
great solomon s seal;north american perennial herb with smooth foliage and drooping tubular greenish flowers
piping crow;crow-sized black-and-white bird. a good mimic often caged
lesser whitethroat;old world warbler similar to the greater whitethroat but smaller
caladenia cairnsiana;orchid with red-tinged linear leaves and panicle of purple-marked pale-yellow flowers with deep red or purple lip. southwestern australia
brassaia actinophylla;erect evergreen shrub or small tree of australia and northern guinea having palmately compound leaves
cheat;weedy annual grass often occurs in grainfields and other cultivated land. seeds sometimes considered poisonous
nothofagus truncata;tall new zealand tree yielding very hard wood
kennedia coccinea;prostrate or twining woody vine with small leathery leaves and umbels of red flowers. australia and tasmania
melilotus alba;biennial plant. valuable honey plant
elapid snake;any of numerous venomous front-fanged snakes of warmer parts of both hemispheres
tithonia;any plant of the genus tithonia. tall coarse herbs or shrubs of mexico to panama having large sunflowerlike flower heads with yellow disc florets and golden-yellow to orange-scarlet rays
callinectes sapidus;bluish edible crab of atlantic and gulf coasts of north america
hyacinthus candicans;southern african herb with white bell-shaped flowers
pureblood;a pedigreed animal of unmixed lineage. used especially of horses
whitlow grass;annual weed of europe and north america having a rosette of basal leaves and tiny flowers followed by oblong seed capsules
brown bear;large ferocious bear of eurasia
american buffalo;large shaggy-haired brown bison of north american plains
mountain laurel;pacific coast tree having aromatic foliage and small umbellate flowers followed by olivelike fruit. yields a hard tough wood
marsh hare;of marshy coastal areas from north carolina to florida
cat;any of several large cats typically able to roar and living in the wild
vascular plant;green plant having a vascular system: ferns, gymnosperms, angiosperms
verbascum blattaria;european mullein with smooth leaves and large yellow or purplish flowers. naturalized as a weed in north america
tricholoma populinum;an edible agaric that fruits in great clusters (especially in sandy soil under cottonwood trees)
bellwort;any of various plants of the genus uvularia having yellowish drooping bell-shaped flowers
english springer;a breed having typically a black-and-white coat
pickerel;any of several north american species of small pike
boletus luridus;a poisonous fungus with a dingy yellow cap and orange red undersurface and a cylindrical reticulate stalk
songster;any bird having a musical call
numbfish;any sluggish bottom-dwelling ray of the order torpediniformes having a rounded body and electric organs on each side of the head capable of emitting strong electric discharges
dittany of crete;dwarf aromatic shrub of crete
caracolito;large costa rican mahogonylike tree having light-colored wood suitable for cabinetry. similar to the african lepidobotrys in wood structure as well as in fruit and flowers and leaves and seeds. often classified in other families
butterwort;any of numerous carnivorous bog plants of the genus pinguicula having showy purple or yellow or white flowers and a rosette of basal leaves coated with a sticky secretion to trap small insects
tom turkey;male turkey
liriope muscari;asiatic perennial tufted herb with grasslike evergreen foliage and clusters of dark mauve grapelike flowers. grown as ground cover
beroe;delicately iridescent thimble-shaped ctenophores
penstemon rupicola;one of the west's most beautiful wildflowers. large brilliant pink or rose flowers in many racemes above thick mats of stems and leaves. ledges and cliffs from washington to california
coltsfoot;perennial herb with large rounded leaves resembling a colt's foot and yellow flowers appearing before the leaves do. native to europe but now nearly cosmopolitan. used medicinally especially formerly
walnut;any of various trees of the genus juglans
hawk;diurnal bird of prey typically having short rounded wings and a long tail
podiceps nigricollis;small grebe with yellow ear tufts and a black neck. found in eurasia and southern africa as well as western united states
five fingered maidenhair fern;hardy palmately branched north american fern with divergent recurved branches borne on lustrous dark reddish stipes
creeper;any plant (as ivy or periwinkle) that grows by creeping
hawkmoth;any of various moths with long narrow forewings capable of powerful flight and hovering over flowers to feed
european tortoise;small land tortoise of southern europe
simple;(archaic) any herbaceous plant having medicinal properties
mastotermes electrodominicus;extinct termite found in amber in the dominican republic
sweet gum tree;a north american tree of the genus liquidambar having prickly spherical fruit clusters and fragrant sap
sweet coltsfoot;american sweet-scented herb
wingstem;perennial herb with showy yellow flowers. the eastern united states
bilsted;a north american tree of the genus liquidambar having prickly spherical fruit clusters and fragrant sap
jaeger;rapacious seabird that pursues weaker birds to make them drop their prey
asclepias albicans;tall herb with leafless waxy-white stems and whitish starlike flowers. southwestern united states
felis onca;a large spotted feline of tropical america similar to the leopard. in some classifications considered a member of the genus felis
kookaburra;australian kingfisher having a loud cackling cry
central chimpanzee;black-faced chimpanzees of central africa. closely related to eastern chimpanzees
mahernia verticillata;african shrub having decumbent stems and slender yellow honey-scented flowers either solitary or in pairs
allegheny plum;wild plum of northeastern united states having dark purple fruits with yellow flesh
cineraria;herb of canary islands widely cultivated for its blue or purple or red or variegated daisylike flowers
swamp horsetail;eurasia. northern north america to virginia
blackwood tree;any of several hardwood trees yielding very dark-colored wood
broad bean;seed of the broad-bean plant
lingenberry;low evergreen shrub of high north temperate regions of europe and asia and america bearing red edible berries
foulmart;dark brown mustelid of woodlands of eurasia that gives off an unpleasant odor when threatened
tree heath;gaunt tasmanian evergreen shrubby tree with slender tapering leaves 3 to 5 feet long
tussock moth;dull-colored moth whose larvae have tufts of hair on the body and feed on the leaves of many deciduous trees
paspalum distichum;low-growing weedy grass with spikelets along the leaf stems
sweet birch;common birch of the eastern united states having spicy brown bark yielding a volatile oil and hard dark wood used for furniture
prairie rocket;any of several western american plants of the genus cheiranthus having large yellow flowers
mountain rice;valuable forage grass of dry upland areas and plains of western north america to northern mexico
septobasidium pseudopedicellatum;fungus that frequently encircles twigs and branches of various trees especially citrus trees in southern united states
vicia sativa;herbaceous climbing plant valuable as fodder and for soil-building
moonfish;any of several silvery marine fishes with very flat bodies
three banded armadillo;south american armadillo with three bands of bony plates
plantain;any of numerous plants of the genus plantago. mostly small roadside or dooryard weeds with elliptic leaves and small spikes of very small flowers. seeds of some used medicinally
onopordum acanthium;biennial eurasian white hairy thistle having pale purple flowers. naturalized in north america
paper mulberry;shrubby asiatic tree having bark (tapa) that resembles cloth. grown as a shade tree in europe and america. male flowers are pendulous catkins and female are urn-shaped followed by small orange-red aggregate berries
american water spaniel;breed of medium-sized spaniels originating in america having chocolate or liver-colored curly coat
casemaking clothes moth;the larvae live in tubes of its food material fastened with silk that it spins
salsify;mediterranean biennial herb with long-stemmed heads of purple ray flowers and milky sap and long edible root. naturalized throughout united states
hippeastrum puniceum;amaryllis of tropical america often cultivated as a houseplant for its showy white to red flowers
persistence;the property of a continuous and connected period of time
kodiak;brown bear of coastal alaska and british columbia
lathyrus sylvestris;european perennial with mottled purple-pink flowers. sometimes cultivated for fodder or as green manure
acer rubrum;maple of eastern and central america. 5-lobed leaves scarlet and yellow in autumn
bimli;valuable fiber plant of east indies now widespread in cultivation
marmalade bush;evergreen south american shrub having showy trumpet-shaped orange flowers. grown as an ornamental or houseplant
marsh hawk;common harrier of north america and europe. nests in marshes and open land
bryony;a tendril-bearing vine of the genus bryonia having large leaves and small flowers and yielding acrid juice with emetic and purgative properties
wildlife;all living things (except people) that are undomesticated. 'chemicals could kill all the wildlife'
gaylussacia frondosa;huckleberry of the eastern united states with pink flowers and sweet blue fruit
slender rush;tufted wiry rush of wide distribution
accentor;small sparrow-like songbird of mountainous regions of eurasia
dryopithecine;considered a possible ancestor to both anthropoid apes and humans
bay tree;small mediterranean evergreen tree with small blackish berries and glossy aromatic leaves used for flavoring in cooking. also used by ancient greeks to crown victors
salsola soda;bushy plant of old world salt marshes and sea beaches having prickly leaves. burned to produce a crude soda ash
matthiola incana;european plant with racemes of sweet-scented flowers. widely cultivated as an ornamental
wood pussy;american musteline mammal typically ejecting an intensely malodorous fluid when startled. in some classifications put in a separate subfamily mephitinae
common tobacco;tall erect south american herb with large ovate leaves and terminal clusters of tubular white or pink flowers. cultivated for its leaves
spiderwort;any plant of the family commelinaceae
quercus falcata;large round-topped deciduous tree with spreading branches having narrow falcate leaves with deeply sinuate lobes and wood similar to that of northern red oaks. new jersey to illinois and southward
salpiglossis sinuata;chilean herb having velvety funnel-shaped yellowish or violet flowers with long tonguelike styles at the corolla throat
rubus hispidus;of eastern north america
pediculus corporis;a parasitic louse that infests the body of human beings
manta birostris;largest manta (to 22 feet across wings). found worldwide but common in gulf of mexico and along southern coasts of united states. primarily oceanic
dasyure;any of several more or less arboreal marsupials somewhat resembling martens
prairie star;plant with mostly basal leaves and slender open racemes of white or pale pink flowers. prairies and open forest of northwestern united states to british columbia and alberta
merry bells;any of various plants of the genus uvularia having yellowish drooping bell-shaped flowers
european black currant;widely cultivated current bearing edible black aromatic berries
brown bat;any of numerous medium to small insectivorous bats found worldwide in caves and trees and buildings
regnellidium;small latex-containing aquatic fern of southern brazil
phasianus colchicus;common pheasant having bright plumage and a white neck ring
plantago major;common european perennial naturalized worldwide. a troublesome weed
unicorn root;any of several perennials of the genus aletris having grasslike leaves and bitter roots reputed to cure colic
ectozoa;any external parasitic organism (as fleas)
agueweed;gentian of eastern north america having clusters of bristly blue flowers
citrange;more aromatic and acidic than oranges
song sparrow;small songbird common in north america
sweetsop;tropical american tree bearing sweet pulpy fruit with thick scaly rind and shiny black seeds
macadamia nut;small australian tree with racemes of pink flowers. widely cultivated (especially in hawaii) for its sweet edible nuts
french lavender;mediterranean plant with pale purple flowers that yields spike lavender oil
teleostan;a bony fish of the subclass teleostei
salvinia rotundifolia;free-floating aquatic ferns
ant;social insect living in organized colonies. characteristically the males and fertile queen have wings during breeding season. wingless sterile females are the workers
colobus guereza;a colobus monkey with a reddish brown coat and white silky fringes down both sides of the body
cananga odorata;evergreen asian tree with aromatic greenish-yellow flowers yielding a volatile oil. widely grown in the tropics as an ornamental
wood nettle;american perennial herb found in rich woods and provided with stinging hairs. provides fibers used for textiles
lime;any of various deciduous trees of the genus tilia heart-shaped leaves and drooping cymose clusters of yellowish often fragrant flowers. several yield valuable timber
eskimo dog;breed of heavy-coated arctic sled dog
snow trillium;a low perennial white-flowered trillium found in the southeastern united states
bird s foot trefoil;european forage plant having claw-shaped pods introduced in america
nasalis larvatus;borneo monkey having a long bulbous nose
bruchus pisorum;larvae live in and feed on seeds of the pea plant
ambrosia psilostachya;coarse perennial ragweed with creeping roots of dry barren lands of southwestern united states and mexico
lords and ladies;common european arum with lanceolate spathe and short purple spadix. emerges in early spring. source of a sagolike starch called arum
pogostemon cablin;small east indian shrubby mint. fragrant oil from its leaves is used in perfumes
young carnivore;the young of certain carnivorous mammals such as the bear or wolf or lion
arundinaria gigantea;tall grass of southern united states growing in thickets
shortgrass;any of various grasses that are short and can tolerate drought conditions. common on the dry upland plains just east of the rocky mountains
bitter dock;european dock with broad obtuse leaves and bitter rootstock common as a weed in north america
sorbus americana;a variety of mountain ash
pelecypod;marine or freshwater mollusks having a soft body with platelike gills enclosed within two shells hinged together
sage willow;willow shrub of dry places in the eastern united states having long narrow leaves canescent beneath
luscinia megarhynchos;european songbird noted for its melodious nocturnal song
trefoil;any of several old world herbs of the genus medicago having small flowers and trifoliate compound leaves
eastern red backed salamander;common salamander of eastern north america
sphacelotheca reiliana;smut fungus attacking heads of corn or sorghum and causing a covered smut
geranium robertianum;a sticky low herb with small reddish-purple flowers. widespread in the northern hemisphere
common rush;tall rush with soft erect or arching stems found in eurasia, australia, new zealand, and common in north america
zebra;any of several fleet black-and-white striped african equines
english foxhound;an english breed slightly larger than the american foxhounds originally used to hunt in packs
climbing lily;any plant of the genus gloriosa of tropical africa and asia. a perennial herb climbing by means of tendrils at leaf tips having showy yellow to red or purple flowers. all parts are poisonous
savoy cabbage;cabbage plant with a compact head of crinkled leaves
babies  breath;tall plant with small lance-shaped leaves and numerous tiny white or pink flowers
oreamnos americanus;sure-footed mammal of mountainous northwestern north america
treadwheel;a mill that is powered by men or animals walking on a circular belt or climbing steps
mastiff;an old breed of powerful deep-chested smooth-coated dog used chiefly as a watchdog and guard dog
abramis brama;european freshwater fish having a flattened body and silvery scales. of little value as food
banded purple;north american butterfly with blue-black wings crossed by a broad white band
head lettuce;distinguished by leaves arranged in a dense rosette that develop into a compact ball
coeloglossum viride;orchid having hooded long-bracted green to yellow-green flowers suffused with purple
sciadopitys verticillata;tall evergreen having a symmetrical spreading crown and needles growing in umbrellalike whorls at ends of twigs
clydesdale terrier;selectively bred small skye terrier with erect ears and a long silky coat
slipper orchid;any of several chiefly american wildflowers having an inflated pouchlike lip. difficult or impossible to cultivate in the garden
cliff swallow;north american swallow that lives in colonies and builds bottle-shaped mud nests on cliffs and walls
capelan;very small northern fish. forage for sea birds and marine mammals and other fishes
ant thrush;a kind of antbird
canadian goldenrod;large north american goldenrod having showy clusters of yellow flowers on arching branches. often a weed
pussy willow;small willow of eastern north america having grayish leaves and silky catkins that come before the leaves
mayfly;slender insect with delicate membranous wings having an aquatic larval stage and terrestrial adult stage usually lasting less than two days
solanum jasmoides;copiously branched vine of brazil having deciduous leaves and white flowers tinged with blue
pterocarpus indicus;tree native to southeastern asia having reddish wood with a mottled or striped black grain
old world quail;small game bird with a rounded body and small tail
flowering quince;asiatic ornamental shrub with spiny branches and pink or red blossoms
red raspberry;any of several raspberries bearing red fruit
ghost gum;small to medium-sized tree of australia and tasmania having smooth white to light-grey bark shedding in patches or strips
gastrocybe lateritia;a species of gastrocybe fungus that has a conic cap and a thin stalk. at first the stalk is upright but as it matures the stalk bends over and then downward. the cap then gelatinizes and a slimy mass containing the spores falls to the ground as the stalk collapses
ophrys apifera;european orchid whose flowers resemble bumble bees in shape and color
juncus bufonius;low-growing annual rush of damp low-lying ground. nearly cosmopolitan
eupatorium capillifolium;weedy plant of southeastern united states having divided leaves and long clusters of greenish flowers
bower actinidia;high-climbing asiatic vine having long finely serrate leaves and racemes of white flowers followed by greenish-yellow edible fruit
frog s lettuce;very similar to potamogeton. of western africa, asia, and europe
nutmeg hickory;hickory of southern united states and mexico having hard nutmeg-shaped nuts
water vole;common large eurasian vole
insect;small air-breathing arthropod
chaparral broom;widely spreading evergreen shrub of southwestern united states with flower heads in a leafy panicle
leonurus cardiaca;bitter old world herb of hedgerows and woodland margins having toothed leaves and white or pale pink flowers
cosmocampus profundus;8 inches. from eastern florida to western caribbean
edible sea urchin;a sea urchin that can be eaten
fir clubmoss;of northern europe and america. resembling a miniature fir
goosefoot;any of various weeds of the genus chenopodium having small greenish flowers
helichrysum secundiflorum;shrub with white woolly branches and woolly leaves having fragrant flowers forming long sprays. flowers suitable for drying. sometimes placed in genus helichrysum
goldie s shield fern;north american fern with a blackish lustrous stipe
diceros simus;large light-gray african rhinoceros having two horns. endangered. sometimes placed in genus diceros
double gold;very tall branching herb with showy much-doubled yellow flower heads
urtica dioica;perennial eurasian nettle established in north america having broad coarsely toothed leaves with copious stinging hairs
dutch case knife bean;tropical american high-climbing bean with red flowers and mottled black beans similar to phaseolus_vulgaris but perennial. a preferred food bean in g britain
langouste;large edible marine crustacean having a spiny carapace but lacking the large pincers of true lobsters
canadian pondweed;north american. widely naturalized in europe
hoop ash;vigorous spreading north american tree having dark brown heavy wood. leaves turn gold in autumn
passerine;perching birds mostly small and living near the ground with feet having 4 toes arranged to allow for gripping the perch. most are songbirds. hatchlings are helpless
haastia pulvinaris;cushion-forming new zealand herb having leaves densely covered with tawny hairs
black poplar;large european poplar
sporobolus cryptandrus;erect smooth grass of sandy places in eastern north america
hard fern;any of several ferns of the genus blechnum
blue gum;tall fast-growing timber tree with leaves containing a medicinal oil. young leaves are bluish
quercus laevis;small slow-growing deciduous shrubby tree of dry sandy barrens of southeastern united states having leaves with bristle-tipped lobes resembling turkey's toes
sand dropseed;erect smooth grass of sandy places in eastern north america
flying gurnard;tropical fish with huge fanlike pectoral fins for underwater gliding. unrelated to searobins
eurasian green toad;eurasian toad with variable chiefly green coloring
omphalotus illudens;a large poisonous agaric with orange caps and narrow clustered stalks. the gills are luminescent
entandrophragma cylindricum;african tree having rather lightweight cedar-scented wood varying in color from pink to reddish brown
ceratosaurus;primitive medium-sized theropod. swift-running bipedal carnivorous dinosaur having grasping hands with sharp claws and a short horn between the nostrils. jurassic in north america
jones;low plant with light blue and violet flowers in short clusters near tips of stems. nevada to utah
lilium canadense;common lily of the eastern united states having nodding yellow or reddish flowers spotted with brown
bottle nosed whale;north atlantic beaked whale with a bulbous forehead
flying dragon;any of several small tropical asian lizards capable of gliding by spreading winglike membranes on each side of the body
mildew;a fungus that produces a superficial (usually white) growth on organic matter
quick grass;european grass spreading rapidly by creeping rhizomes. naturalized in north america as a weed
pearl oyster;tropical marine bivalve found chiefly off eastern asia and pacific coast of north and central america. a major source of pearls
conchfish;found in west indies. lives in mantle cavity of a living conch
epipremnum aureum;evergreen liana widely cultivated for its variegated foliage
round spored gyromitra;a gyromitra with a brown puffed up fertile part and a rosy pink fluted stalk and smooth round spores. found on hardwood slash east of the great plains
marang;philippine tree similar to the breadfruit tree bearing edible fruit
foeniculum dulce;grown especially for its edible aromatic bulbous stem base
summer haw;hawthorn of southern united states bearing juicy acid scarlet fruit often used in jellies or preserves
whippet;small slender dog of greyhound type developed in england
yeast;any of various single-celled fungi that reproduce asexually by budding or division
tarpan;european wild horse extinct since the early 20th century
golden barrel cactus;large cactus of east central mexico having golden to pale yellow flowers and spines
european ash;tall ash of europe to the caucasus having leaves shiny dark-green above and pale downy beneath
caddisfly;small moth-like insect having two pairs of hairy membranous wings and aquatic larvae
rambotan;malayan tree bearing spiny red fruit
sierra plum;shrub of united states pacific coast bearing small red insipid fruit
waxycap;any fungus of the family hygrophoraceae having gills that are more or less waxy in appearance
lefteye flounder;flatfishes with both eyes on the left side of the head
fairy swallow;fancy domestic pigeon having blue-and-white plumage and heavily muffed feet
cephalochordate;fishlike animals having a notochord rather than a true spinal column
baneberry;a plant of the genus actaea having acrid poisonous berries
american lady crab;brightly spotted crab of sandy beaches of the united states atlantic coast
plantain lily;any of numerous perennials having mounds of sumptuous broad ribbed leaves and clusters of white, blue, or lilac flowers. used as ground cover
feathertop grass;northeastern tropical african plant having feathery panicles
aster novi belgii;north american perennial herb having small autumn-blooming purple or pink or white flowers. widely naturalized in europe
gai choi;asiatic mustard used as a potherb
mock orange;large hardy shrub with showy and strongly fragrant creamy-white flowers in short terminal racemes
rhus toxicodenedron;poisonous shrub of southeastern united states causing a rash on contact
echovirus;any of a group of viruses associated with various diseases including viral meningitis and mild respiratory disorders and diarrhea in newborn infants
milling machine;metal secured to a carriage is fed against rotating cutters that shape it
snowy egret;small new world egret
angled loofah;loofah of pakistan. widely cultivated throughout tropics
lonicera canadensis;erect deciduous north american shrub with red-tinged yellow-white flowers
cushat;eurasian pigeon with white patches on wings and neck
ladies;any of several chiefly american wildflowers having an inflated pouchlike lip. difficult or impossible to cultivate in the garden
cassia marginata;east indian tree having long pods containing a black cathartic pulp used as a horse medicine
japanese clover;an annual of tropical asia naturalized in united states
wriggler;larva of a mosquito
black huckleberry;low shrub of the eastern united states bearing shiny black edible fruit. best known of the huckleberries
tangerine;any of various deep orange mandarins grown in the united states and southern africa
horseradish;coarse eurasian plant cultivated for its thick white pungent root
blue pea;vine of tropical asia having pinnate leaves and bright blue yellow-centered flowers
parrot s beak;evergreen shrub with scarlet to white claw- or beak-like flowers. new zealand
sierra;a spanish mackerel of western north america
tropical pitcher plant;any of several tropical carnivorous shrubs or woody herbs of the genus nepenthes
beach plum;seacoast shrub of northeastern north america having showy white blossoms and edible purple fruit
lamb s lettuce;widely cultivated as a salad crop and pot herb. often a weed
gelechia gossypiella;small brown moth whose larvae bore into flowers and bolls of cotton
live oak;any of several american evergreen oaks
calculator;a small machine for mathematical calculations
psocid;small winged insect living on the bark and leaves of trees and feeding on e.g. fungi and decaying plant matter
aconitum napellus;a poisonous herb native to northern europe having hooded blue-purple flowers. the dried leaves and roots yield aconite
weeping willow;willow with long drooping branches and slender leaves native to china. widely cultivated as an ornamental
eastern lowland gorilla;a kind of gorilla
equador laurel;large tropical american tree of the genus cordia grown for its abundant creamy white flowers and valuable wood
doggie;informal terms
dermochelys coriacea;wide ranging marine turtle with flexible leathery carapace. largest living turtle
tobacco mildew;fungus causing a downy mildew on growing tobacco
pulsatilla vulgaris;european perennial having usually violet or white spring flowers
sebastodes miniatus;commercially important fish of the north american pacific coast
roughtail stingray;one of the largest stingrays. found from cape cod to cape hatteras
campanula rotundifolia;perennial of northern hemisphere with slender stems and bell-shaped blue flowers
yellow sand verbena;plant having hemispherical heads of yellow trumpet-shaped flowers. found in coastal dunes from california to british columbia
cestode;ribbon-like flatworms that are parasitic in the intestines of humans and other vertebrates
crepe fern;fern of rain forests of tropical australia and new zealand and south africa
evergreen grass;coarse perennial eurasian oatlike grass found on roadside verges and rough grassland and in hay meadows. introduced in north america for forage
tetrapod;a vertebrate animal having four feet or legs or leglike appendages
blue thistle;a coarse prickly european weed with spikes of blue flowers. naturalized in united states
robber fly;swift predatory fly having a strong body like a bee with the proboscis hardened for sucking juices of other insects captured on the wing
fulmar;heavy short-tailed oceanic bird of polar regions
common bean plant;the common annual twining or bushy bean plant grown for its edible seeds or pods
african oil palm;oil palm of africa
syringa;large hardy shrub with showy and strongly fragrant creamy-white flowers in short terminal racemes
bulletin board;(computer science) a computer that is running software that allows users to leave messages and access information of general interest
welsh terrier;wire-haired terrier resembling airedales but smaller. developed in wales for hunting
crataegus tomentosa;erect and almost thornless american hawthorn with somewhat pear-shaped berries
white avens;north american white-flowered avens
tyrannus tyrannus;large american flycatcher
mammillaria plumosa;a low tuberculate cactus with white feathery spines. northeastern mexico
pellaea andromedifolia;evergreen fern of california and baja california
grassfinch;usually brightly-colored australian weaverbirds. often kept as cage birds
bucephela albeola;small north american diving duck. males have bushy head plumage
tickweed;any of numerous plants of the genus coreopsis having a profusion of showy usually yellow daisylike flowers over long periods. north and south america
sawmill;a large sawing machine
neophron percnopterus;small mostly white vulture of africa and southern eurasia
frankincense pine;tall spreading 3-needled pine of southeastern united states having reddish-brown fissured bark and a full bushy upper head
japonica;greenhouse shrub with glossy green leaves and showy fragrant roselike flowers. cultivated in many varieties
morrow s honeysuckle;a gray deciduous honeysuckle shrub paired white flowers turning yellow. japan
gallinula chloropus;black gallinule that inhabits ponds and lakes
stenotus acaulis;dark green erect herb of northwestern united states and southwestern canada having stiff leaves in dense tufts and yellow flower heads. sometimes placed in genus haplopappus
white topped aster;herb having corymbose white-rayed flowers with scaly bracts and silky indehiscent fruits
gentiana quinquefolia;gentian of eastern north america having clusters of bristly blue flowers
anteater;any of several tropical american mammals of the family myrmecophagidae which lack teeth and feed on ants and termites
draba;any of numerous low-growing cushion-forming plants of the genus draba having rosette-forming leaves and terminal racemes of small flowers with scapose or leafy stems. fruit is a dehiscent oblong or linear silique
chunga;argentinian cariama
archil;any of various lecanoras that yield the dye archil
japanese bittersweet;ornamental asiatic vine with showy orange-yellow fruit with a scarlet aril. naturalized in north america
velvetleaf;tall annual herb or subshrub of tropical asia having velvety leaves and yellow flowers and yielding a strong fiber. naturalized in southeastern europe and united states
myroxylon balsamum;medium-sized tropical american tree yielding tolu balsam and a fragrant hard wood used for high-grade furniture and cabinetwork
blackfish;female salmon that has recently spawned
prairie dog;any of several rodents of north american prairies living in large complex burrows having a barking cry
notornis;flightless new zealand birds similar to gallinules
life of man;unarmed woody rhizomatous perennial plant distinguished from wild sarsaparilla by more aromatic roots and panicled umbels. southeastern north america to mexico
hirundo nigricans;of australia and polynesia. nests in tree cavities
cackler;any of various insectivorous old world birds with a loud incessant song. in some classifications considered members of the family muscicapidae
mountain beaver;bulky nocturnal burrowing rodent of uplands of the pacific coast of north america. the most primitive living rodent
rock barnacle;barnacle that attaches to rocks esp. in intertidal zones
horse tick;winged fly parasitic on horses
delphinus delphis;black-and-white dolphin that leaps high out of the water. one of the dolphins displayed at the marinelands of california and florida
flame tree;south australian tree having panicles of brilliant scarlet flowers
true cat;feline mammal usually having thick soft fur and being unable to roar. domestic cats. wildcats
rabbiteye blueberry;shrub of southeastern united states grown commercially especially for canning industry
tigon;offspring of a male tiger and a female lion
silkworm moth;moderate-sized asiatic moth whose larvae feed on mulberry leaves and produce silk
atropa belladonna;perennial eurasian herb with reddish bell-shaped flowers and shining black berries. extensively grown in united states. roots and leaves yield atropine
rooibos;south african shrub having flat acuminate leaves and yellow flowers. leaves are aromatic when dried and used to make an herbal tea
goggle eye;of atlantic coastal waters. commonly used for bait
punica granatum;shrub or small tree native to southwestern asia having large red many-seeded fruit
lycium barbarum;deciduous erect or spreading shrub with spiny branches and violet-purple flowers followed by orange-red berries. southeastern europe to china
false truffle;any of various fungi of the genus scleroderma having hard-skinned subterranean trufflelike fruiting bodies
serin;any of various brown and yellow finches of pats of europe
clerid;predacious on other insects. usually brightly colored or metallic
genus sphacelotheca;genus of smut fungus
yellow mombin tree;tropical american tree having edible yellow fruit
icaco;small tropical american tree bearing edible plumlike fruit
sturnella neglecta;a meadowlark of western north america
marblewood;large asiatic tree having hard marbled zebrawood
ladies  eardrops;erect or climbing shrub of brazil with deep pink to red flowers
populus tremula;old world aspen with a broad much-branched crown. northwestern europe and siberia to north africa
vaccinium angustifolium;low-growing deciduous shrub of northeastern north america having flowers in compact racemes and bearing sweet dark blue berries
taro plant;herb of the pacific islands grown throughout the tropics for its edible root and in temperate areas as an ornamental for its large glossy leaves
danaid;large tropical butterfly with degenerate forelegs and an unpleasant taste
hare s foot bristle fern;a variety of bristle fern
jacobean lily;mexican bulbous herb cultivated for its handsome bright red solitary flower
swamp poplar;north american poplar with large rounded scalloped leaves and brownish bark and wood
polyploid;an organism or cell having more than twice the haploid number of chromosomes
lime disease spirochete;cause of lyme disease. transmitted primarily by ticks of genus ixodes
port jackson heath;small shrub of southern and western australia having pinkish to rosy purple tubular flowers
salsola kali;bushy plant of old world salt marshes and sea beaches having prickly leaves. burned to produce a crude soda ash
lyonia ligustrina;deciduous much-branched shrub with dense downy panicles of small bell-shaped white flowers
ciconia ciconia;the common stork of europe. white with black wing feathers and a red bill
calvatia gigantea;huge edible puffball up to 2 feet diameter and 25 pounds in weight
asplenium viride;small often many-crowned fern with slim green fronds. widely distributed in cool parts of northern hemisphere
golden club;aquatic plant of the southeastern united states having blue-green leaves and and a club-like spadix covered with tiny yellow flowers
basil thyme;fragrant european mint having clusters of small violet-and-white flowers. naturalized especially in eastern north america
henbane;poisonous fetid old world herb having sticky hairy leaves and yellow-brown flowers. yields hyoscyamine and scopolamine
canada wild rye;north american wild rye
canadian aspen;aspen with a narrow crown. eastern north america
astilbe chinensis pumila;mat-forming evergreen asiatic plant with finely cut leaves and small pink to burgundy flowers. grown as ground cover
gopher;burrowing edible land tortoise of southeastern north america
florida arrowroot;small tough woody zamia of florida and west indies and cuba. roots and half-buried stems yield an arrowroot
saxifraga stolonifera;eastern asiatic saxifrage with racemes of small red-and-white flowers. spreads by numerous creeping stolons
sword lily;plants with sword-shaped leaves and erect stalks bearing bright-colored flowers composed of three petals and three drooping sepals
chordate;any animal of the phylum chordata having a notochord or spinal column
fine leaved heath;common low european shrub with purple-red flowers
psittacosaurus;primitive dinosaur actually lacking horns and having only the beginning of a frill. long hind and short front limbs. may have been bipedal
coyote bush;widely spreading evergreen shrub of southwestern united states with flower heads in a leafy panicle
helleborus viridis;deciduous plant with large deep green pedate leaves and nodding saucer-shaped green flowers
hyaena;doglike nocturnal mammal of africa and southern asia that feeds chiefly on carrion
blephilia celiata;a variety of wood mint
plumbago europaea;plant with lead-blue flowers
tsetse;blood-sucking african fly. transmits sleeping sickness etc.
european larch;tall european tree having a slender conic crown, flat needlelike leaves, and hairy cone scales
hampshire;british breed of hornless dark-faced mutton sheep
american twinflower;similar to the twinflower of northern europe and asia
greenweed;small eurasian shrub having clusters of yellow flowers that yield a dye. common as weed in england and united states. sometimes grown as an ornamental
soldierfish;the larger squirrelfishes
meadow fescue;grass with wide flat leaves cultivated in europe and america for permanent pasture and hay and for lawns
eucalyptus coriacea;small to medium-sized tree of australia and tasmania having smooth white to light-grey bark shedding in patches or strips
slender loris;slim-bodied lemur of southern india and sri lanka
prickly seeded spinach;southwestern asian plant widely cultivated for its succulent edible dark green leaves
psychopsis krameriana;orchid of south and central america having flowers similar to but smaller than psychopsis papilio. sometimes placed in genus oncidium
rogue elephant;a wild and vicious elephant separated from the herd
papio ursinus;grayish baboon of southern and eastern africa
jassid;a variety of leafhopper
alfileria;european weed naturalized in southwestern united states and mexico having reddish decumbent stems with small fernlike leaves and small deep reddish-lavender flowers followed by slender pinlike fruits that stick straight up. often grown for forage
sand hopper;small amphipod crustaceans that hop like fleas. common on ocean beaches
rough skinned newt;newt of humid coast from alaska to southern california
austrotaxus spicata;large yew native to new caledonia. cultivated in eastern australia and new zealand and hawaii
vulpes vulpes;the common old world fox. having reddish-brown fur. commonly considered a single circumpolar species
hairstreak butterfly;small butterflies having striped markings under the wings
rubus loganobaccus;red-fruited bramble native tostates (oregon to baja california)
arrowroot;white-flowered west indian plant whose root yields arrowroot starch
nanny goat;female goat
pavo muticus;peafowl of southeast asia
grayhen;female black grouse
lactobacillus;gram-positive rod-shaped bacteria that produce lactic acid esp. in milk
post oak;small deciduous tree of eastern and central united states having dark green lyrate pinnatifid leaves and tough moisture-resistant wood used especially for fence posts
satinwood tree;east indian tree with valuable hard lustrous yellowish wood.
yucca gloriosa;yucca of southeastern united states similar to the spanish bayonets but with shorter trunk and smoother leaves
fleur de lis;plants with sword-shaped leaves and erect stalks bearing bright-colored flowers composed of three petals and three drooping sepals
aspen;any of several trees of the genus populus having leaves on flattened stalks so that they flutter in the lightest wind
leatherback;wide ranging marine turtle with flexible leathery carapace. largest living turtle
madriporian coral;corals having calcareous skeletons aggregations of which form reefs and islands
gossypium barbadense;small bushy tree grown on islands of the caribbean and off the southern united states atlantic coast and yielding cotton with unusually long silky fibers
tineoid moth;small dull-colored moth with chewing mouthparts
chilomeniscus cinctus;a sand snake of southwestern united states. lives in fine to coarse sand or loamy soil in which it 'swims'. banding resembles that of coral snakes
chelonian reptile;a reptile of the order chelonia
acinos arvensis;fragrant european mint having clusters of small violet-and-white flowers. naturalized especially in eastern north america
indian turnip;common american spring-flowering woodland herb having sheathing leaves and an upright club-shaped spadix with overarching green and purple spathe producing scarlet berries
chile tarweed;south american herb with sticky glandular foliage. source of madia oil
pennycress;any of several plants of the genus thlaspi
damson plum;tropical american timber tree with dark hard heavy wood and small plumlike purple fruit
snowflake;white arctic bunting
green winged teal;common teal of eurasia and north america
enginery;engines collectively
black rat;common household pest originally from asia that has spread worldwide
crown monkey;indian macaque with a bonnet-like tuft of hair
gentianopsis thermalis;small blue-flowered fringed gentian of western united states (rocky mountains) especially around hot springs in yellowstone national park
african sandalwood;small shrubby african tree with hard wood used as a dyewood yielding a red dye
rupicolous plant;plants growing among rocks
dense leaved elodea;aquatic plant with deep green foliage useful as an aquarium oxygenator. sometimes placed in genus egeria
great white heron;widely distributed old world white egret
cancerweed;sage of eastern united states
pincushion flower;old world annual having fragrant purple to deep crimson flower heads. naturalized in united states
pewit gull;small black-headed european gull
bog plant;a semi-aquatic plant that grows in soft wet land. most are monocots: sedge, sphagnum, grasses, cattails, etc. possibly heath
crataegus calpodendron;erect and almost thornless american hawthorn with somewhat pear-shaped berries
virginia thimbleweed;thimbleweed of central and eastern north america
tiger;large feline of forests in most of asia having a tawny coat with black stripes. endangered
freshwater bream;any of various usually edible freshwater percoid fishes having compressed bodies and shiny scales. especially (but not exclusively) of the genus lepomis
cat shark;small bottom-dwelling sharks with catlike eyes. found along continental slopes
bottlenose;north atlantic beaked whale with a bulbous forehead
iceland poppy;old world alpine poppy with white or yellow to orange flowers
water avens;erect perennial of north temperate zone having pinnate leaves and few nodding flowers with brown-purple calyx and orange-pink petals
blower;large aquatic carnivorous mammal with fin-like forelimbs no hind limbs, including: whales. dolphins. porpoises. narwhals
cactus euphorbia;small tree of dry open parts of southern africa having erect angled branches suggesting candelabra
tacamahac;poplar of northeastern north america with broad heart-shaped leaves
parochetus communis;trailing trifoliate asiatic and african herb having cobalt blue flowers
pig laurel;north american dwarf shrub resembling mountain laurel but having narrower leaves and small red flowers. poisonous to young stock
theridiid;spider having a comb-like row of bristles on each hind foot
spoonbill catfish;large catfish of central united states having a flattened head and projecting jaw
staph;spherical gram-positive parasitic bacteria that tend to form irregular colonies. some cause boils or septicemia or infections
chaulmugra;east indian tree with oily seeds yield chaulmoogra oil used to treat leprosy
nutmeg tree;east indian tree widely cultivated in the tropics for its aromatic seed. source of two spices: nutmeg and mace
carageen;dark purple edible seaweed of the atlantic coasts of europe and north america
reed canary grass;perennial grass of marshy meadows and ditches having broad leaves. europe and north america
liatris punctata;herb with many stems bearing narrow slender wands of crowded rose-lavender flowers. central united states and canada to texas and northern mexico
stone cress;any old world herb of the genus aethionema. native of sunny limestone habitats
blaeberry;erect european blueberry having solitary flowers and blue-black berries
sarcophaga carnaria;fly whose larvae feed on carrion or the flesh of living animals
anemone quinquefolia;common anemone of eastern north america with solitary pink-tinged white flowers
macrozamia spiralis;large attractive palmlike evergreen cycad of new south wales
kuri chiku;small bamboo having thin green culms turning shining black
thimbleberry;shrubby raspberry of eastern north america having showy rose to purplish flowers and red or orange thimble-shaped fruit
fulica americana;north american coot
leatherleaf;north temperate bog shrub with evergreen leathery leaves and small white cylindrical flowers
bush honeysuckle;bush honeysuckle of southeastern united states having large crowded clusters of sulfur-yellow flowers
sugar beet;form of the common beet having a sweet white root from which sugar is obtained
mexican husk tomato;annual of mexico and southern united states having edible purplish viscid fruit resembling small tomatoes
northern lobster;lobster of atlantic coast of america
thornbill;any of various south american hummingbirds with a sharp pointed bill
desert paintbrush;most common paintbrush of western united states dry lands. having erect stems ending in dense spikes of bright orange to red flowers
cupflower;any of various plants of the genus nierembergia having upturned bell-like flowers
giant scrambling fern;large scrambling fern forming large patches to 18 feet high. pacific region and china
rose apple tree;tropical tree of the east indies cultivated for its edible fruit
stinking chamomile;widespread rank-smelling weed having white-rayed flower heads with yellow discs
broom grass;any of several grasses of the genus andropogon. used in broom making
tercel;male hawk esp. male peregrine or gyrfalcon
entozoan;any of various parasites that live in the internal organs of animals (especially intestinal worms)
timucu;found in warm waters of western atlantic
vitis labrusca;native grape of northeastern united states. origin of many cultivated varieties e.g. concord grapes
white horehound;european aromatic herb with hairy leaves and numerous white flowers in axillary cymes. leaves yield a bitter extract use medicinally and as flavoring
yellow trefoil;prostrate european herb with small yellow flowers and curved black pods. naturalized in north america
fungus gnat;mosquito-like insect whose larvae feed on fungi or decaying vegetation
blue catfish;a large catfish of the mississippi valley
belamcanda chinensis;garden plant whose capsule discloses when ripe a mass of seeds resembling a blackberry
bear grass;stemless plant with tufts of grasslike leaves and erect panicle of minute creamy white flowers. southwestern united states and mexico
common grape vine;common european grape cultivated in many varieties. chief source of old world wine and table grapes
galangal;european sedge having rough-edged leaves and spikelets of reddish flowers and aromatic roots
walrus;either of two large northern marine mammals having ivory tusks and tough hide over thick blubber
grouseberry;shrub of northwestern north america bearing red berries
unguiculate mammal;a mammal having nails or claws
colaptes caper collaris;western united states bird with red undersurface to wings and tail
jungle cock;male jungle fowl
wallflower;perennial of southern europe having clusters of fragrant flowers of all colors especially yellow and orange. often naturalized on old walls or cliffs. sometimes placed in genus erysimum
buteonine;any hawk of the genus buteo
jessamine;tall-climbing deciduous shrub with fragrant white or yellow or red flowers used in perfume and to flavor tea
myrciaria cauliflora;small evergreen tropical tree native to brazil and west indies but introduced into southern united states. grown in brazil for its edible tough-skinned purple grapelike fruit that grows all along the branches
halobacteria;halophiles in saline environments such as the dead sea or salt flats
trichomanes speciosum;large stout fern of extreme western europe
wire grass;handsome hardy north american grass with foliage turning pale bronze in autumn
waxwing;brown velvety-plumaged songbirds of the northern hemisphere having crested heads and red waxy wing tips
alexandrian senna;erect shrub having racemes of tawny yellow flowers. the dried leaves are used medicinally as a cathartic. sometimes placed in genus cassia
tricholoma irinum;an edible agaric with large silky white caps and thick stalks
shiner;any of numerous small silvery north american cyprinid fishes especially of the genus notropis
alpine clover;european mountain clover with fragrant usually pink flowers
equisetum sylvaticum;eurasia except southern russia. northern north america
halogeton souda;algerian plant formerly burned to obtain calcium carbonate
fur seal;fur seal of the north pacific
catalpa speciosa;catalpa tree of central united states
equus caballus przevalskii;wild horse of central asia that resembles an ass. now endangered
oyster plant;mediterranean biennial herb with long-stemmed heads of purple ray flowers and milky sap and long edible root. naturalized throughout united states
dianthus latifolius;much-branched pink with flowers in clusters. closely related to sweet william
buffalo gnat;small blackish stout-bodied biting fly having aquatic larvae. sucks the blood of birds as well as humans and other mammals
chocolate tree;tropical american tree producing cacao beans
huckleberry oak;a low spreading or prostrate shrub of southwestern united states with small acorns and leaves resembling those of the huckleberry
cherrystone;a half-grown quahog
satinpod;southeastern european plant cultivated for its fragrant purplish flowers and round flat papery silver-white seedpods that are used for indoor decoration
ramsons;pungent old world weedy plant
elodea canadensis;north american. widely naturalized in europe
coragyps atratus;american vulture smaller than the turkey buzzard
narrow leaved strap fern;fern with shorter and narrower leaves than florida strap fern. florida to west indies and mexico and south to argentina
wild yam;having a rhizome formerly dried and used to treat rheumatism or liver disorders
day lily;any of numerous perennials having mounds of sumptuous broad ribbed leaves and clusters of white, blue, or lilac flowers. used as ground cover
chalice vine;mexican evergreen climbing plant having large solitary funnel-shaped fragrant yellow flowers with purple-brown ridges in the throat
dogwood tree;a tree of shrub of the genus cornus often having showy flower-like bracts
large leaved cucumber tree;large deciduous shrub or tree of southeastern united states having huge leaves in dense false whorls and large creamy flowers tinged purple toward the base
cob;adult male swan
goa bean;tuberous-rooted twining annual vine bearing clusters of purplish flowers and pods with four jagged wings. old world tropics
sea wrack;submerged marine plant with very long narrow leaves found in abundance along north atlantic coasts
brugmansia arborea;south american plant cultivated for its large fragrant trumpet-shaped flowers
sawbill;large crested fish-eating diving duck having a slender hooked bill with serrated edges
bombycilla garrulus;large waxwing of northern north america. similar to but larger than the cedar waxwing
wheel horse;a horse harnessed behind others and nearest the wheels of a vehicle
black cat;large dark brown north american arboreal carnivorous mammal
richea pandanifolia;gaunt tasmanian evergreen shrubby tree with slender tapering leaves 3 to 5 feet long
pseudococcus fragilis;destructive esp. to citrus
endameba;any ameba of the genus endamoeba
brassica oleracea botrytis;a plant having a large edible head of crowded white flower buds
pityrogramma calomelanos;tropical american fern having fronds with white undersides
potato fern;small epiphytic fern of south america with tuberous swellings along rhizomesi
priodontes giganteus;about three feet long exclusive of tail
jasmine tobacco;south american ornamental perennial having nocturnally fragrant greenish-white flowers
giant bamboo;immense tropical southeast asian bamboo with tough hollow culms that resemble tree trunks
micromeria douglasii;trailing perennial evergreen herb of northwestern united states with small white flowers. used medicinally
perennial pea;perennial climber of central and southern europe having purple or pink or white flowers. naturalized in north america
alytes cisternasi;similar in habit to alytes obstetricians
bell morel;a morel whose fertile portion resembles a bell and is attached to the stipe only at the top
averrhoa carambola;east indian tree bearing deeply ridged yellow-brown fruit
wild mango tree;african tree with edible yellow mangolike fruit valued for its oil-rich seed and hardy green termite-resistant wood
chenopodium botrys;eurasian aromatic oak-leaved goosefoot with many yellow-green flowers. naturalized north america
sapsucker;small american woodpecker that feeds on sap from e.g. apple and maple trees
water yam;grown in australasia and polynesia for its large root with fine edible white flesh
mesembryanthemum crystallinum;old world annual widely naturalized in warm regions having white flowers and fleshy foliage covered with icelike hairs
cacao;tropical american tree producing cacao beans
butter;a yellow jelly fungus
solanum quitoense;small perennial shrub cultivated in uplands of south america for its edible bright orange fruits resembling tomatoes or oranges
euglenoid;marine and freshwater green or colorless flagellate organism
amanita verna;fungus similar to amanita_phalloides
helenium puberulum;a sneezeweed of southwestern united states especially southern california
milvus migrans;dark old world kite feeding chiefly on carrion
mammal;any warm-blooded vertebrate having the skin more or less covered with hair. young are born alive except for the small subclass of monotremes and nourished with milk
kahikatea;new zealand evergreen valued for its light easily worked wood
ptilonorhynchus violaceus;of southeast australia. male is glossy violet blue. female is light gray-green
hickory;american hardwood tree bearing edible nuts
texas bluebonnet;closely resembles lupinus_subcarnosus. southwestern united states (texas)
stilt;long-legged three-toed wading bird of brackish marshes of australia
madagascar pepper;climber having dark red berries (peppercorns) when fully ripe. southern india and sri lanka. naturalized in north burma and assam
porcupine;relatively large rodents with sharp erectile bristles mingled with the fur
nigella sativa;herb of the mediterranean region having pungent seeds used like those of caraway
chinese silk plant;tall perennial herb of tropical asia with dark green leaves. cultivated for flax-like fiber from its woody stems
blue elder;shrub or small tree of western united states having white flowers and blue berries. fruit used in wines and jellies
giant panda;large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of china and tibet. in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family ailuropodidae
medicago arborea;evergreen shrub of southern european highlands having downy foliage and a succession of yellow flowers throughout the summer followed by curious snail-shaped pods
quail brush;spiny shrub with silvery-scurfy foliage of alkaline plains of southwestern united states and mexico
cimicifuga foetida;bugbane of siberia and eastern asia having ill-smelling green-white flowers
pitahaya;cactus of the southwestern united states and northern mexico having edible juicy fruit
calochortus elegans;small plant with slender bent stems bearing branched clusters of a few white star-shaped flowers with petals shaped like cat's ears. southeastern washington and northeastern oregon to montana
hydrangea anomala;deciduous climber with aerial roots having white to creamy flowers in fairly flat heads
silver salmon;small salmon of north pacific coasts and the great lakes
lilium columbianum;lily of western north america with showy orange-red purple-spotted flowers
brassica rapa;widely cultivated plant having a large fleshy edible white or yellow root
east indian fig tree;east indian tree that puts out aerial shoots that grow down into the soil forming additional trunks
migratory quail;the typical old world quail
pterocles alchata;sandgrouse of europe and africa having elongated middle tail feathers
lilium catesbaei;lily of southeastern united states having cup-shaped flowers with deep yellow to scarlet recurved petals
rubiaceous plant;any of numerous trees or shrubs or vines of the family rubiaceae
japanese banana;asiatic banana plant cultivated especially as a foliage plant in japan
stinking mayweed;widespread rank-smelling weed having white-rayed flower heads with yellow discs
agropyron subsecundum;a wheatgrass with straight terminal awns on the flowering glumes
strongylodon macrobotrys;vigorous philippine evergreen twining liana. grown for spectacular festoons of green lobster-claw-like flowers
alligator weed;prolific south american aquatic weed having grasslike leaves and short spikes of white flowers. clogs waterways with dense floating masses
bertholletia excelsa;tall south american tree bearing brazil nuts
tatouay;naked-tailed armadillo of tropical south america
knapweed;any of various plants of the genus centaurea having purple thistlelike flowers
saw palmetto;small hardy clump-forming spiny palm of southern united states
miniature pinscher;small german version of a doberman pinscher
varnish tree;large tree native to southeastern asia. the nuts yield oil used in varnishes. nut kernels strung together are used locally as candles
caiman;alligator-like reptile of central and south america having a more heavily armored belly
tassel flower;tropical african annual having scarlet tassel-shaped flower heads. sometimes placed in genus cacalia
persian melon;any of a variety of muskmelon vines having fruit with a smooth white rind and white or greenish flesh that does not have a musky smell
pansy orchid;any of various orchids of the genus miltonia having solitary or loosely racemose showy broadly spreading flowers
erigeron philadelphicus;especially pretty plant having a delicate fringe of threadlike rays around flower heads having very slender white or pink rays. united states and canada
white campion;bluish-green herb having sticky stems and clusters of large evening-opening white flowers with much-inflated calyx. sometimes placed in genus lychnis
jet engine;a gas turbine produces a stream of hot gas that propels a jet plane by reaction propulsion
english elm;broad spreading rough-leaved elm common throughout europe and planted elsewhere
lactuca sativa asparagina;lettuce valued especially for its edible stems
eleocharis palustris;cylendrical-stemmed sedge
scarabaeid;any of numerous species of stout-bodied beetles having heads with horny spikes
harpy bat;any of various fruit bats of the genus nyctimene distinguished by nostrils drawn out into diverging tubes
salsilla;tropical vine having pink-and-yellow flowers spotted purple and edible roots sometimes boiled as a potato substitute. west indies to northern south america
uakari;medium-sized tree-dwelling monkey of the amazon basin. only new world monkey with a short tail
pipefish;fish with long tubular snout and slim body covered with bony plates
snakeroot;a plant of the genus sanicula having palmately compound leaves and unisexual flowers in panicled umbels followed by bristly fruit. reputed to have healing powers
rice weevil;brown weevil that infests stored grain esp. rice
breadroot;densely hairy perennial of central north america having edible tuberous roots
ditch fern;large deeply rooted fern of worldwide distribution with upright bipinnate compound tufted fronds
mesquite;any of several small spiny trees or shrubs of the genus prosopis having small flowers in axillary cylindrical spikes followed by large sugar-rich pods
poison camas;a common perennial death camas. tennessee to kansas to texas
caseworm;insect larva that constructs a protective case around its body
greater water parsnip;large stout white-flowered perennial found wild in shallow fresh water. europe
duck billed platypus;small densely furred aquatic monotreme of australia and tasmania having a broad bill and tail and webbed feet. only species in the family ornithorhynchidae
innocense;white and lavender to pale-blue flowers grow in perfect rings of widely spaced bands around the stems forming a kind of pagoda. california
fall cankerworm;green or brown white-striped looper. larva of alsophila_pometaria
crustacean;any mainly aquatic arthropod usually having a segmented body and chitinous exoskeleton
guinea pepper;tropical west african evergreen tree bearing pungent aromatic seeds used as a condiment and in folk medicine
latimeria chalumnae;fish thought to have been extinct since the cretaceous period but found in 1938 off the coast of africa
butterweed;any of several yellow-flowered plants of the genus packer. often placed in genus senecio
sardine;any of various small edible herring or related food fishes frequently canned
geometrid moth;slender-bodied broad-winged moth whose larvae are called measuring worms
hygrophorus turundus;a small fungus with orange cap and yellow gills found in sphagnum bogs
punkie;minute two-winged insect that sucks the blood of mammals and birds and other insects
coluber hippocrepis;slender fast-moving eurasian snake
malayan tapir;a tapir found in malaya and sumatra
pyrrhuloxia;crested gray-and-red bird of southwest united states and mexico
spurge;any of numerous plants of the genus euphorbia. usually having milky often poisonous juice
common st john s wort;deciduous bushy eurasian shrub with golden yellow flowers and reddish-purple fruits from which a soothing salve is made in spain
great crested grebe;large old world grebe with black ear tufts
sporozoite;one of the minute active bodies into which sporozoans divide in one stage of their life cycle
willowherb;a plant of the genus epilobium having pink or yellow flowers and seeds with silky hairs
betel pepper;asian pepper plant whose dried leaves are chewed with betel nut (seed of the betel palm) by southeast asians
web toed salamander;any of several salamanders with webbed toes and very long extensile tongues. excellent climbers that move with ease over smooth rock surfaces
little blue heron;small bluish-gray heron of the westrn hemisphere
ardea occidentalis;large white heron of florida and the florida keys
sea cucumber;echinoderm having a flexible sausage-shaped body, tentacles surrounding the mouth and tube feet. free-living mud feeders: sea cucumbers
winter flounder;important american food fish in the winter
breakaxe;west indian timber tree having very hard wood
poke milkweed;milkweed of the eastern united states with leaves resembling those of pokeweed
gentiana calycosa;tufted sometimes sprawling perennial with blue flowers spotted with green. western north america
yucca elata;tall arborescent yucca of southwestern united states
haw;a spring-flowering shrub or small tree of the genus crataegus
drymarchon corais couperi;a variety of indigo snake
wormseed mustard;slender yellow-flowered european mustard often troublesome as a weed. formerly used as an anthelmintic
griselinia littoralis;small new zealand broadleaf evergreen tree often cultivated in warm regions as an ornamental
internal combustion engine;combustion occurs inside the engine rather than in a separate furnace. heat expands a gas that either moves a piston or turns a gas turbine
leaf nosed bat;bat having a leaflike flap at the end of the nose. especially of the families phyllostomatidae and rhinolophidae and hipposideridae
whitetail deer;common north american deer. tail has a white underside
diapsid reptile;reptile having a pair of openings in the skull behind each eye
porbeagle;voracious pointed-nose shark of northern atlantic and pacific
nopal;cactus having yellow flowers and purple fruits
chow chow;breed of thick-coated medium-sized dogs with fluffy curled tails and distinctive blue-black tongues. believed to have originated in north china
cyclamen neopolitanum;common wild european cyclamen with pink flowers
tuberose;a tuberous mexican herb having grasslike leaves and cultivated for its spikes of highly fragrant lilylike waxy white flowers
mud puppy;large salamander of north american rivers and streams
bog myrtle;perennial plant of europe and america having racemes of white or purplish flowers and intensely bitter trifoliate leaves. often rooting at water margin and spreading across the surface
farley maidenhair fern;named for a country house in barbados where it was discovered
abortus;a human fetus whose weight is less than 0.5 kilogram when removed or expelled from the mother's body
zinjanthropus;genus to which australopithecus boisei was formerly assigned
pongid;any of the large anthropoid apes of the family pongidae
printer;a machine that prints
seahorse;small fish with horselike heads bent sharply downward and curled tails. swim in upright position
montia perfoliata;succulent herb sometimes grown as a salad or pot herb. grows on dunes and waste ground of pacific coast of north america
amorphophallus titanum;malodorous tropical plant having a spathe that resembles the corolla of a morning glory and attains a diameter of several feet
bonasa umbellus;valued as a game bird in eastern united states and canada
sterculia apetala;large deciduous tree native to panama and from which the country takes its name having densely leafy umbrellalike crown and naked trunk
olympic salamander;small large-eyed semiaquatic salamander of the united states northwest
australopithecine;any of several extinct humanlike small-brained bipedal primates of the genus australopithecus. from 1 to 4 million years ago
wood laurel;bushy eurasian shrub with glossy leathery oblong leaves and yellow-green flowers
darkling beetle;sluggish hard-bodied black terrestrial weevil whose larvae feed on e.g. decaying plant material or grain
red shafted flicker;western united states bird with red undersurface to wings and tail
dyer s mignonette;european mignonette cultivated as a source of yellow dye. naturalized in north america
sweetleaf;small yellowwood tree of southern united states having small fragrant white flowers. leaves and bark yield a yellow dye
waterbuck;any of several large african antelopes of the genus kobus having curved ridged horns and frequenting e.g. swamps and rivers
icterus galbula galbula;eastern subspecies of northern oriole
butea frondosa;east indian tree bearing a profusion of intense vermilion velvet-textured blooms and yielding a yellow dye
cuban spinach;succulent herb sometimes grown as a salad or pot herb. grows on dunes and waste ground of pacific coast of north america
christmas bells;any of several plants of the genus blandfordia having large orange or crimson flowers
garget;tall coarse perennial american herb having small white flowers followed by blackish-red berries on long drooping racemes. young fleshy stems are edible. berries and root are poisonous
eugenia jambos;tropical tree of the east indies cultivated for its edible fruit
single leaf pinyon;pinon of southwestern united states having solitary needles and often many stems. important as a nut pine
blue runner;fish of western atlantic: cape cod to brazil
roe deer;small graceful deer of eurasian woodlands having small forked antlers
winter s bark tree;south american evergreen tree yielding winter's bark and a light soft wood similar to basswood
red maids;succulent carpet-forming plant having small brilliant reddish-pink flowers. southwestern united states
populus nigra;large european poplar
orca;predatory black-and-white toothed whale with large dorsal fin. common in cold seas
jackass;male donkey
figure loom;a loom for weaving figured fabrics
wild celery;submerged aquatic plant with ribbonlike leaves. old world and australia
canary whitewood;tall north american deciduous timber tree having large tulip-shaped greenish yellow flowers and conelike fruit. yields soft white woods used especially for cabinet work
sorgo;any of several sorghums cultivated as a source of syrup
smooth leaved elm;european elm with lustrous smooth leaves used as an ornamental
bird of paradise;ornamental plant of tropical south africa and south america having stalks of orange and purplish-blue flowers resembling a bird
rattan palm;climbing palm of sri lanka and southern india remarkable for the great length of the stems which are used for malacca canes
ox;any of various wild bovines especially of the genera bos or closely related bibos
eleocharis dulcis;chinese sedge yielding edible bulb-shaped tubers
foxtail orchid;any of various orchids of the genus rhyncostylis having pink- to purple-marked white flowers in a dense cylindrical raceme
sable;marten of north asian forests having luxuriant dark brown fur
umbelliferous plant;any of numerous aromatic herbs of the family umbelliferae
blue mockingbird;mockingbird of mexico
american lotus;water lily of eastern north america having pale yellow blossoms and edible globular nutlike seeds
ursus americanus;brown to black north american bear. smaller and less ferocious than the brown bear
ayapana;low spreading tropical american shrub with long slender leaves used to make a mildly stimulating drink resembling tea. sometimes placed in genus eupatorium
new world tapir;a tapir found in south and central america
great yellow gentian;robust european perennial having clusters of yellow flowers
ash leaved maple;common shade tree of eastern and central united states
south american poison toad;a south american toad
procyon lotor;north american raccoon
quercus shumardii;large deciduous red oak of southern and eastern united states having large 7- to 9-lobed elliptical leaves, large acorns and medium hard coarse-grained wood
shore bird;any of numerous wading birds that frequent mostly seashores and estuaries
sugar snap pea;variety of pea plant producing peas having crisp rounded edible pods
cervus elaphus;common deer of temperate europe and asia
choriotis australis;popular australian game bird
white cypress;slow-growing medium-sized cedar of east coast of the united states. resembles american arborvitae
rhododendron;any shrub of the genus rhododendron: evergreen shrubs or small shrubby trees having leathery leaves and showy clusters of campanulate (bell-shaped) flowers
bufo calamita;common brownish-yellow short-legged toad of western europe. runs rather than hops
talinum paniculatum;erect plant with tuberous roots and terminal panicles of red to yellow flowers. southwestern north america to central america. widely introduced elsewhere
slave maker;an ant that attacks colonies of other ant species and carries off the young to be reared as slaves
synercus caffer;large often savage buffalo of southern africa having upward-curving horns. mostly in game reserves
tape grass;submerged aquatic plant with ribbonlike leaves. old world and australia
tonka bean;tall tropical south american tree having pulpy egg-shaped pods of fragrant black almond-shaped seeds used for flavoring
indian breadroot;densely hairy perennial of central north america having edible tuberous roots
alpaca;domesticated llama with long silky fleece. believed to be a domesticated variety of the guanaco
chamois cress;small tufted perennial herb of mountains of central and southern europe having very small flowers of usually leafless stems. sometimes placed in genus lepidium
field chickweed;densely tufted perennial chickweed of north temperate zone
pipestem clematis;clematis of california
common shiner;the common north american shiner
curled pondweed;european herb naturalized in the eastern united states and california
rattlesnake s master;coarse prickly perennial eryngo of united states thought to cure rattlesnake bite
pitanga;brazilian tree with spicy red fruit. often cultivated in california and florida
porcupine fish;spines become erect when the body is inflated. worldwide in warm waters
giant garlic;european leek cultivated and used like leeks
fern;any of numerous flowerless and seedless vascular plants having true roots from a rhizome and fronds that uncurl upward. reproduce by spores
brinjal;hairy upright herb native to southeastern asia but widely cultivated for its large glossy edible fruit commonly used as a vegetable
nigella hispanica;nigella of spain and southern france
setaria italica;coarse drought-resistant annual grass grown for grain, hay and forage in europe and asia and chiefly for forage and hay in united states
strawberry guava;small tropical shrubby tree bearing small yellowish fruit
snake s head fritillary;eurasian checkered lily with pendant flowers usually veined and checkered with purple or maroon on a pale ground and shaped like the bells carried by lepers in medieval times. widely grown as an ornamental
guinea;w african bird having dark plumage mottled with white. native to africa but raised for food in many parts of the world
common fig;mediterranean tree widely cultivated for its edible fruit
cocoa plum;small tropical american tree bearing edible plumlike fruit
wahoo;upright deciduous plant with crimson pods and seeds. the eastern united states from new york to florida and texas
titmouse;small insectivorous birds
holocentrus bullisi;a squirrelfish found from south carolina to bermuda and gulf of mexico
shiga bacillus;a bacillus that causes dysentery
aspidistra elatio;evergreen perennial with large handsome basal leaves. grown primarily as a foliage houseplant
limestone fern;yellow-green fern of rocky areas of northern hemisphere
phantom orchid;waxy white nearly leafless plant with stems in clusters and racemes of white flowers. northwestern united states to northern california and east to idaho
spider crab;any of numerous crabs with very long legs and small triangular bodies
hygrophorus borealis;a fungus with a white convex cap and arcuate white gills and a stalk that tapers toward the base
mussel;marine or freshwater bivalve mollusk that lives attached to rocks etc.
saxifrage;any of various plants of the genus saxifraga
filbert;small nut-bearing tree much grown in europe
littleneck clam;a young quahog suitable to be eaten raw
evergreen wood fern;north american evergreen fern having pinnate leaves and dense clusters of lance-shaped fronds
onion;bulbous plant having hollow leaves cultivated worldwide for its rounded edible bulb
dot printer;a printer in which each character is represented by a pattern of dots
canis lupus tundrarum;wolf of arctic north america having white fur and a black-tipped tail
coneflower;any of various plants of the genus rudbeckia cultivated for their large usually yellow daisies with prominent central cones
orchil;any of various lecanoras that yield the dye archil
sweet sultan;perennial of mountains of iran and iraq. cultivated for its fragrant rose-pink flowers
coconut;tall palm tree bearing coconuts as fruits. widely planted throughout the tropics
rosa multiflora;vigorously growing rose having clusters of numerous small flowers. used for hedges and as grafting stock
amaranthus hypochondriacus;leaves sometimes used as potherbs. seeds used as cereal. southern united states to central america. india and china
erysimum cheiri;perennial of southern europe having clusters of fragrant flowers of all colors especially yellow and orange. often naturalized on old walls or cliffs. sometimes placed in genus erysimum
agelaius phoeniceus;north american blackbird with scarlet patches on the wings
persian lamb;a karakul lamb
coach dog;a large breed having a smooth white coat with black or brown spots. originated in dalmatia
carnosaur;large carnivorous bipedal dinosaur having huge claws
cape periwinkle;commonly cultivated old world woody herb having large pinkish to red flowers
trichomanes boschianum;a variety of bristle fern
four o clock;any of several plants of the genus mirabilis having flowers that open in late afternoon
slender knapweed;a variety of knapweed
tinker;small mackerel found nearly worldwide
aletris aurea;colicroot with yellow-bracted racemose flowers. smaller than aletris farinosa. southeastrn united states
snake fern;tropical fern widespread in old world. naturalized in jamaica and florida
dryopteris phegopteris;beech fern of north america and eurasia
prunus besseyi;dwarf ornamental shrub of western united states having large black to red and yellow sweet edible fruit
prunus mume;japanese ornamental tree with fragrant white or pink blossoms and small yellow fruits
varanus niloticus;destroys crocodile eggs
celery root;grown for its thickened edible aromatic root
gerbera jamesonii;widely cultivated south african perennial having flower heads with orange to flame-colored rays
golden buttons;common perennial aromatic herb native to eurasia having buttonlike yellow flower heads and bitter-tasting pinnate leaves sometimes used medicinally
moloch;any lizard of the genus moloch
atlantic salmon;found in northern coastal atlantic waters or tributaries. adults do not die after spawning
milfoil;ubiquitous strong-scented mat-forming eurasian herb of wasteland, hedgerow or pasture having narrow serrate leaves and small usually white florets. widely naturalized in north america
hemipterous insect;insects with sucking mouthparts and forewings thickened and leathery at the base. usually show incomplete metamorphosis
helianthus petiolaris;similar to the common sunflower with slender usually branching stems common in central united states
common snowberry;deciduous shrub of western north america having spikes of pink flowers followed by round white berries
primula polyantha;florists' primroses. considered a complex hybrid derived from oxlip, cowslip, and common primrose
sacred ibis;african ibis venerated by ancient egyptians
harp seal;common arctic seal. the young are all white
tanacetum douglasii;lightly hairy rhizomatous perennial having aromatic feathery leaves and stems bearing open clusters of small buttonlike yellow flowers. sand dunes of pacific coast of north america
papillon;small slender toy spaniel with erect ears and a black-spotted brown to white coat
ursinia;any of various plants of the genus ursinia grown for their yellow- or orange- or white-rayed flowers
bitternut hickory;hickory of the eastern united states having a leaves with 7 or 9 leaflets and thin-shelled very bitter nuts
cerriped;marine crustaceans with feathery food-catching appendages. free-swimming as larvae. as adults form a hard shell and live attached to submerged surfaces
diver;large somewhat primitive fish-eating diving bird of the northern hemisphere having webbed feet placed far back. related to the grebes
dziggetai;mongolian wild ass
erwinia;rod-shaped motile bacteria that attack plants
indian paint;european annual with clusters of greenish flowers followed by red pulpy berrylike fruit. naturalized north america
ictiobus niger;fish of the lower mississippi
wolf bean;white-flowered eurasian herb widely cultivated for forage and erosion control
rudbeckia serotina;the state flower of maryland. of central and southeastern united states. having daisylike flowers with dark centers and yellow to orange rays
canecutter;of southeastern united states swamps and lowlands
alosa alosa;european shad
venus  hair fern;delicate maidenhair fern with slender shining black leaf stalks. cosmopolitan
salpa;minute floating marine tunicate having a transparent body with an opening at each end
differential analyzer;an analog computer designed to solve differential equations
clone;a group of genetically identical cells or organisms derived from a single cell or individual by some kind of asexual reproduction
needlefish;fish with long tubular snout and slim body covered with bony plates
liverwort;any of numerous small green nonvascular plants of the class hepaticopsida growing in wet places and resembling green seaweeds or leafy mosses
white baneberry;north american herb with white poisonous berries
fat hen;european plant naturalized in north america. often collected from the wild as a potherb
esox americanus;small but gamy pickerel of atlantic coastal states
gardenia augusta;evergreen shrub widely cultivated for its large fragrant waxlike white flowers and glossy leaves
harvestfish;butterfish up to a foot long of atlantic waters from chesapeake bay to argentina
terrapene ornata;primarily a prairie turtle of western united states and northern mexico
everlasting;any of various plants of various genera of the family compositae having flowers that can be dried without loss of form or color
chrysanthemum coccineum;spring-flowering garden perennial of asiatic origin having finely divided aromatic leaves and white to pink-purple flowers. source of an insecticide. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
notropis cornutus;the common north american shiner
bush clover;shrubby or herbaceous plants widely used for forage, soil improvement, and especially hay in southern united states
european perch;a perch native to europe
mountain devil;desert lizard that feeds on ants
johnny jump up;common violet of the eastern united states with large pale blue or purple flowers resembling pansies
honeycreeper;small bright-colored tropical american songbird with a curved bill for sucking nectar
dryopteris hexagonoptera;beech fern of north american woodlands having straw-colored stripes
prairie golden aster;hairy perennial with yellow flower heads in branched clusters. found almost everywhere in dry places from canada to west central and western united states. sometimes placed in genus chrysopsis
andrenid;a bee that is a a member of the genus andrena
brya ebenus;west indian tree yielding a fine grade of green ebony
willow aster;a variety of aster
garlic chive;eastern asian plant. larger than allium_schoenoprasum
stenotomus aculeatus;porgy of southern atlantic coastal waters of north america
cardamine diphylla;north american herb with pungent scaly or toothed roots
golden chain;an ornamental shrub or tree of the genus laburnum. often cultivated for easter decorations
jerboa;mouselike jumping rodent
sweet woodruff;old world fragrant stoloniferous perennial having small white flowers and narrow leaves used as flavoring and in sachets. widely cultivated as a ground cover. in some classifications placed in genus asperula
toy poodle;the smallest poodle
electric ray;any sluggish bottom-dwelling ray of the order torpediniformes having a rounded body and electric organs on each side of the head capable of emitting strong electric discharges
shrubby penstemon;low bushy plant with large showy pale lavender or blue-violet flowers in narrow clusters at ends of stems
aeschynanthus radicans;epiphyte or creeping on rocks. malaysian plant having somewhat fleshy leaves and bright red flowers
annual fern;small short-lived fern of central and south america
scolopax rusticola;short-legged long-billed migratory old world woodcock
hibiscus tiliaceus;shrubby tree widely distributed along tropical shores. yields a light tough wood used for canoe outriggers and a fiber used for cordage and caulk. often cultivated for ornament
sea lettuce;seaweed with edible translucent crinkly green fronds
montia chamissoi;a floating or creeping indian lettuce having terminal racemes of pale rose flowers. wet areas at high elevations of western north america
lens culinaris;widely cultivated eurasian annual herb grown for its edible flattened seeds that are cooked like peas and also ground into meal and for its leafy stalks that are used as fodder
eriophyllum wallacei;tiny gray woolly tufted annual with small golden-eyllow flower heads. southeastern california to northwestern arizona and southwestern utah. sometimes placed in genus eriophyllum
lavandula latifolia;mediterranean plant with pale purple flowers that yields spike lavender oil
wynnea americana;a fungus composed of several apothecia that look like elongated rabbit ears. the sterile surface is dark brown and warty. the fertile surface is smooth and pinkish orange
great mullein;tall-stalked very woolly mullein with densely packed yellow flowers. ancient greeks and romans dipped the stalks in tallow for funeral torches
native cranberry;small prostrate or ascending shrub having scarlet flowers and thin-fleshed succulent fruit resembling cranberries. sometimes place in genus styphelia
cicuta verosa;tall erect highly poisonous eurasiatic perennial herb locally abundant in marshy areas
ipomoea alba;pantropical climber having white fragrant nocturnal flowers
drosophila melanogaster;small fly used in studying basic mechanisms of inheritance
button snakeroot;coarse prickly perennial eryngo of united states thought to cure rattlesnake bite
libocedrus bidwillii;evergreen tree of new zealand resembling the kawaka
phytolacca americana;tall coarse perennial american herb having small white flowers followed by blackish-red berries on long drooping racemes. young fleshy stems are edible. berries and root are poisonous
pseudotsuga menziesii;lofty douglas fir of northwestern north america having short needles and egg-shaped cones
bristlegrass;grasses of grasslands and woodlands having large gracefully arching spikes with long bristles beneath each spikelet
negro peach;stout spreading or semiclimbing tropical shrub with round brownish-red warty fruit. africa
night jessamine;west indian evergreen shrub having clusters of funnel-shaped yellow-white flowers that are fragrant by night
candida albicans;a parasitic fungus that can infect the mouth or the skin or the intestines or the vagina
musk clover;low annual european herb naturalized in america. similar to alfilaria
toucan;brilliantly colored arboreal fruit-eating bird of tropical america having a very large thin-walled beak
rabbit;any of various burrowing animals of the family leporidae having long ears and short tails. some domesticated and raised for pets or food
venus s slipper;any of various orchids of the genus paphiopedilum having slender flower stalks bearing 1 to several waxy flowers with pouchlike lips
crape myrtle;ornamental e. indian shrub commonly planted in southern united states
pussycat;informal terms
dragon s mouth;a bog orchid with usually a solitary fragrant magenta pink blossom with a wide-gaping corolla. canada
ant bear;nocturnal burrowing mammal of the grasslands of africa that feeds on termites. sole extant representative of the order tubulidentata
guinea hen flower;eurasian checkered lily with pendant flowers usually veined and checkered with purple or maroon on a pale ground and shaped like the bells carried by lepers in medieval times. widely grown as an ornamental
spiderflower;any of various often strong-smelling plants of the genus cleome having showy spider-shaped flowers
toxicodendron vernix;smooth american swamp shrub with pinnate leaves and greenish flowers followed by greenish white berries. yields an irritating oil
actinidia arguta;high-climbing asiatic vine having long finely serrate leaves and racemes of white flowers followed by greenish-yellow edible fruit
easter daisy;dwarf tufted nearly stemless herb having a rosette of woolly leaves and large white-rayed flower heads and bristly achenes. central canada and united states west to arizona
plant virus;a plant pathogen that is a virus consisting of a single strand of rna
spiraea;a japanese shrub that resembles members of the genus spiraea. widely cultivated in many varieties for its dense panicles of flowers in many colors. often forced by florists for easter blooming
she oak;any of several australian trees of the genus casuarina
sacramento sturgeon;food and game fish of marine and fresh waters of northwestern coast of north america
bonnet shark;small harmless hammerhead having a spade-shaped head. abundant in bays and estuaries
lantana;a flowering shrub
reynard;a conventional name for a fox used in tales following usage in the old epic 'reynard the fox'
white popinac;low scrubby tree of tropical and subtropical north america having white mimosalike flowers tinged with yellow and long flattened pods
iris filifolia;bulbous spanish iris with red-violet flowers
pine sawyer;large beetle whose larvae bore holes in pine trees
snowshoe rabbit;large large-footed north american hare. white in winter
dromaeosaur;a kind of maniraptor
wild onion;any of various plants of the genus allium with edible bulbs found growing wild
desmodium purpureum;west indian forage plant cultivated in southern united states as forage and to improve soil
cavalla;large mackerel with long pointed snout. important food and game fish of the eastern atlantic coast south to brazil
seagull;mostly white aquatic bird having long pointed wings and short legs
prairie willow;slender shrubby willow of dry areas of north america
moloch horridus;desert lizard that feeds on ants
banian;east indian tree that puts out aerial shoots that grow down into the soil forming additional trunks
bluebottle;blowfly with iridescent blue body. makes a loud buzzing noise in flight
mountain mint;any of a number of perennial herbs of the genus pycnanthemum. eastern north america and california
hs2;a herpes virus that can cause genital herpes
ern;bulky grayish-brown eagle with a short wedge-shaped white tail. of europe and greenland
larkspur;any of numerous cultivated plants of the genus delphinium
equisetum robustum;evergreen erect horsetail with rough-edged stems. formerly used for scouring utensils
birch tree;any betulaceous tree or shrub of the genus betula having a thin peeling bark
african love grass;perennial south african grass having densely clumped flimsy stems. introduced into united states especially for erosion control
argal;wild sheep of semidesert regions in central asia
welted thistle;european biennial introduced in north america having flower heads in crowded clusters at ends of spiny-winged branches
malva neglecta;annual old world plant with clusters of pink or white flowers. naturalized in united states
trinil man;fossil remains found in java. formerly called pithecanthropus erectus
king devil;european hawkweed introduced into northeastern united states. locally troublesome weeds
erythronium albidum;north american dogtooth having solitary white flowers with yellow centers and blue- or pink-tinted exteriors
polystichum scopulinum;north american fern
euonymous alatus;bushy deciduous shrub with branches having thin wide corky longitudinal wings. brilliant red in autumn. northeastern asia to central china
bony fish;any fish of the class osteichthyes
mirabilis oblongifolia;leafy wildflower with lavender-pink flowers that open in the evening and remain through cool part of the next day. found in open woods or brush in mountains of southern colorado to arizona and into mexico
algarroba;long pod containing small beans and sweetish edible pulp. used as animal feed and source of a chocolate substitute
clubmoss;primitive evergreen mosslike plant with spores in club-shaped strobiles
satinwood;west indian tree with smooth lustrous and slightly oily wood
privet;any of various old world shrubs having smooth entire leaves and terminal panicles of small white flowers followed by small black berries. many used for hedges
broussonetia papyrifera;shrubby asiatic tree having bark (tapa) that resembles cloth. grown as a shade tree in europe and america. male flowers are pendulous catkins and female are urn-shaped followed by small orange-red aggregate berries
pacific sardine;small pilchards common off the pacific coast of north america
fish fuddle;small tree of west indies and florida having large odd-pinnate leaves and panicles of red-striped purple to white flowers followed by decorative curly winged seedpods. yields fish poisons
red gum;a north american tree of the genus liquidambar having prickly spherical fruit clusters and fragrant sap
bat;nocturnal mouselike mammal with forelimbs modified to form membranous wings and anatomical adaptations for echolocation by which they navigate
autophytic plant;plant capable of synthesizing its own food from simple organic substances
gallinago gallinago delicata;american snipe
uropsilus soricipes;shrew mole of eastern asia
archangel;a biennial cultivated herb. its stems are candied and eaten and its roots are used medicinally
spathe flower;any of various plants of the genus spathiphyllum having a white or green spathe and a spite of fragrant flowers and often cultivated as an ornamental
wind poppy;california wild poppy with bright red flowers
artemisia absinthium;aromatic herb of temperate eurasia and north africa having a bitter taste used in making the liqueur absinthe
common louse;head or body louse
hereford;hardy english breed of dairy cattle raised extensively in united states
reticulitermes flanipes;destructive united states termite
chameleon;lizard of africa and madagascar able to change skin color and having a projectile tongue
struthiomimus;small light-boned toothless dinosaur resembling an ostrich in size and proportions
rat chinchilla;ratlike rodent with soft fur and large ears of the andes
cockscomb;garden annual with featherlike spikes of red or yellow flowers
angleworm;terrestrial worm that burrows into and helps aerate soil. often surfaces when the ground is cool or wet. used as bait by anglers
queen;especially large and only member of a colony of naked mole rats to bear offspring sired by only a few males
camelopard;tallest living quadruped. having a spotted coat and small horns and very long neck and legs. of savannahs of tropical africa
strangler tree;an epiphytic vine or tree whose aerial roots extend down the trunk of a supporting tree and coalesce around it eventually strangling the tree
indian tobacco;tobacco plant of south america and mexico
divi divi;small thornless tree or shrub of tropical america whose seed pods are a source of tannin
narrowhead morel;a morel whose pitted fertile body is attached to the stalk with little free skirt around it. the fertile body is gray when young and black in old age
spike lavender;mediterranean plant with pale purple flowers that yields spike lavender oil
great pyrenees;bred of large heavy-coated white dogs resembling the newfoundland
native cat;carnivorous arboreal catlike marsupials of australia and tasmania
lepomis gibbosus;small brilliantly colored north american sunfish
poll;a tame parrot
egyptian onion;type of perennial onion grown chiefly as a curiosity or for early salad onions. having bulbils that replace the flowers
castilleja chromosa;most common paintbrush of western united states dry lands. having erect stems ending in dense spikes of bright orange to red flowers
gasterosteus pungitius;confined to rivers
tare;weedy annual grass often occurs in grainfields and other cultivated land. seeds sometimes considered poisonous
pilea involucrata;low stingless nettle of central and south america having velvety brownish-green toothed leaves and clusters of small green flowers
mexican bean beetle;introduced into the united states from mexico. feeds on the foliage of the bean plant
european corn borer;native to europe. in america the larvae bore into the stem and crown of corn and other plants
mamey;tropical american tree having edible fruit with a leathery rind
colobus monkey;arboreal monkey of western and central africa with long silky fur and reduced thumbs
rinkhals;highly venomous snake of southern africa able to spit venom up to seven feet
sea snail;small tadpole-shaped cold-water fishes with pelvic fins forming a sucker. related to lumpfish
purple sage;silvery-leaved california herb with purple flowers
common wallaby;height 30 inches
geomys bursarius;gopher of chiefly grasslands of central north america
west indian snowberry;evergreen climbing shrub of southern florida and west indies grown for its racemes of fragrant white to creamy flowers followed by globose white succulent berries
santalum album;indo-malayan parasitic tree having fragrant close-grained yellowish heartwood with insect-repelling properties and used for e.g. chests
lespedeza bicolor;asian shrub having conspicuous racemose rose-purple flowers widely used as an ornamental and in erosion control and as a source of wild-bird feed
cash dispenser;a machine (outside some banks) that dispenses cash when a personal coded card is used
western mountain ash;an ash of the western coast of north america
lagerstroemia speciosa;native to asia, australia, and east indies, where it provides timber called pyinma. used elsewhere as an ornamental for its large showy flowers
platycerium alcicorne;commonly cultivated fern of australia and southeastern asia and polynesia
erodium cicutarium;european weed naturalized in southwestern united states and mexico having reddish decumbent stems with small fernlike leaves and small deep reddish-lavender flowers followed by slender pinlike fruits that stick straight up. often grown for forage
cucurbita pepo melopepo;any of various usually bushy plants producing fruit that is eaten while immature and before the rind or seeds harden
swallow tailed hawk;graceful north american black-and-white kite
european pasqueflower;european perennial having usually violet or white spring flowers
client;(computer science) any computer that is hooked up to a computer network
lambkin;a very young lamb
american gentian;any of various tall perennial herbs constituting the genus frasera. widely distributed in warm dry upland areas of the united states pacific states
lappet;medium-sized hairy moths. larvae are lappet caterpillars
salix alba;large willow tree of eurasia and north africa having grayish canescent leaves and gray bark
redshank;a common old world wading bird with long red legs
rubus ursinus;american blackberry with oblong black fruit
coniferous tree;any gymnospermous tree or shrub bearing cones
water bug;small light-brown cockroach brought to united states from europe. a common household pest
aplectrum hyemale;north american orchid bearing a single leaf and yellowish-brown flowers
carrion crow;american vulture smaller than the turkey buzzard
leatherback turtle;wide ranging marine turtle with flexible leathery carapace. largest living turtle
malinois;fawn-colored short-haired sheep dog
tetraneuris acaulis;perennial having tufted basal leaves and short leafless stalks each bearing a solitary yellow flower head. dry hillsides and plains of west central north america. sometimes placed in genus hymenoxys
wound tumor virus;a tumor virus transmitted by leafhoppers
oceanic bonito;fish whose flesh is dried and flaked for japanese cookery. may be same species as skipjack tuna
meadow mushroom;common edible mushroom found naturally in moist open soil. the cultivated mushroom of commerce
field horsetail;of eurasia and greenland and north america
apium graveolens dulce;widely cultivated herb with aromatic leaf stalks that are eaten raw or cooked
schefflera actinophylla;erect evergreen shrub or small tree of australia and northern guinea having palmately compound leaves
paigle;eurasian primrose with yellow flowers clustered in a one-sided umbel
madia elegans;california annual having red-brown spots near the base of its yellow flower rays
eriogonum allenii;late-blooming perennial plant of shale barrens of virginia having flowers in flat-topped clusters
plectranthus amboinicus;an aromatic fleshy herb of india and ceylon to south africa. sometimes placed in genus plectranthus
philodendron;often grown as a houseplant
indian lettuce;a plant of the genus montia having edible pleasant-tasting leaves
tree shrew;insectivorous arboreal mammal of southeast asia that resembles a squirrel with large eyes and long sharp snout
bream;any of various usually edible freshwater percoid fishes having compressed bodies and shiny scales. especially (but not exclusively) of the genus lepomis
tree cotton;east indian shrub cultivated especially for ornament for its pale yellow to deep purple blossoms
silver berry;deciduous shrubby tree of europe and western asia having gray leaves and small yellow fruits covered in silvery scales. sometimes spiny
rubus strigosus;red raspberry of north america
dacrydium bidwilli;new zealand shrub
notonecta undulata;predaceous aquatic insect that swims on its back and may inflict painful bites
cucurbita maxima;plant bearing buff-colored squash having somewhat bottle-shaped fruit with fine-textured edible flesh and smooth thin rind
salmwood;large tropical american tree of the genus cordia grown for its abundant creamy white flowers and valuable wood
parathelypteris simulata;delicate feathery shield fern of the eastern united states. sometimes placed in genus thelypteris
veronica americana;plant of western north america and northeastern asia having prostrate stems with dense racemes of pale violet to lilac flowers
doberman pinscher;medium large breed of german origin with a glossy black-and-tan coat used as a watchdog
symphilid;minute arthropod often infesting the underground parts of truck-garden and greenhouse crops
field cricket;common american black cricket. attacks crops and also enters dwellings
ascophyllum nodosum;similar to and found with black rockweed
tupelo tree;any of several gum trees of swampy areas of north america
milliped;any of numerous herbivorous nonpoisonous arthropods having a cylindrical body of 20 to 100 or more segments most with two pairs of legs
dipsacus sativus;similar to the common teasel and similarly used. widespread in europe and north africa and western asia. naturalized in united states
vinca rosea;commonly cultivated old world woody herb having large pinkish to red flowers
spadefoot toad;burrowing toad of the northern hemisphere with a horny spade-like projection on each hind foot
ondatra zibethica;beaver-like aquatic rodent of north america with dark glossy brown fur
smut;any fungus of the order usrilaginales
fishing worm;terrestrial worm that burrows into and helps aerate soil. often surfaces when the ground is cool or wet. used as bait by anglers
white rayed mule s ears;herb with basal leaves and leafy hairy stems bearing solitary flower heads with white or pale cream rays. northwestern united states
bos indicus;any of several breeds of indian cattle especially a large american heat- and tick-resistant grayish humped breed evolved in the gulf states by interbreeding indian cattle and now used chiefly for crossbreeding
walleyed pike;pike-like freshwater perches
mountain four o clock;leafy wildflower with lavender-pink flowers that open in the evening and remain through cool part of the next day. found in open woods or brush in mountains of southern colorado to arizona and into mexico
basket flower;annual of southwestern united states cultivated for its purple-rayed flower heads and its basket-like bracts
easter lily vine;evergreen woody twiner with large glossy leaves and showy corymbs of fragrant white trumpet-shaped flowers
spirula;a small tropical cephalopod of the genus spirula having prominent eyes and short arms and a many-chambered shell coiled in a flat spiral
tongueflower;orchid having blue to purple flowers with tongue- or strap-shaped protuberances (calli) at the lip base
allosaur;late jurassic carnivorous dinosaur. similar to but somewhat smaller than tyrannosaurus
tall cupflower;shrubby chilean herb having bluish-white tubular flowers used as an ornamental
common nutcracker;old world nutcracker
red false mallow;false mallow of western united states having racemose red flowers. sometimes placed in genus malvastrum
common purslane;weedy trailing mat-forming herb with bright yellow flowers cultivated for its edible mildly acid leaves eaten raw or cooked especially in indian and greek and middle eastern cuisine. cosmopolitan
genista raetam;desert shrub of syria and arabia having small white flowers. constitutes the juniper of the old testament. sometimes placed in genus genista
sidalcea malviflora;perennial purple-flowered wild mallow of western north america that is also cultivated
pteris serrulata;fern of north africa and azores and canary islands
chrysophyllum oliviforme;tropical american timber tree with dark hard heavy wood and small plumlike purple fruit
kitul;fishtail palm of india to malay peninsula. sap yields a brown sugar (jaggery) and trunk pith yields sago
asplenium pinnatifidum;a spleenwort of eastern and southern united states
canine;any of various fissiped mammals with nonretractile claws and typically long muzzles
country borage;an aromatic fleshy herb of india and ceylon to south africa. sometimes placed in genus plectranthus
american robin;large american thrush having a rust-red breast and abdomen
slipper;any of various orchids of the genus paphiopedilum having slender flower stalks bearing 1 to several waxy flowers with pouchlike lips
haplopappus acaulis;dark green erect herb of northwestern united states and southwestern canada having stiff leaves in dense tufts and yellow flower heads. sometimes placed in genus haplopappus
lysiloma latisiliqua;a tamarindlike tree of the west indies and florida and mexico having long flat pods
black legged tick;parasitic on mice of genus peromyscus (especially p. leucopus) and bites humans. principal vector for lyme disease in eastern united states (especially new england). northern form was for a time known as ixodes dammini (deer tick)
chenopodium rubrum;common eurasian weed. naturalized in united states
rhodesian ridgeback;a powerful short-haired african hunting dog having a crest of reversed hair along the spine
urochordate;primitive marine animal having a saclike unsegmented body and a urochord (a notochord) conspicuous in the larva
flame durrajong;south australian tree having panicles of brilliant scarlet flowers
beefsteak plant;south american plant having green to purple or red branches with green to purple ornamental foliage and spikes of insignificant woolly flowers with dry membranous bracts
pipistrelle;small european brown bat
polystichum setiferum;european shield fern cultivated in many varieties
polystichum adiantiformis;widely distributed fern of tropical southern hemisphere having leathery pinnatifid fronds
pygmy chimpanzee;small chimpanzee of swamp forests in zaire. a threatened species
tringa totanus;a common old world wading bird with long red legs
panax schinseng;chinese herb with palmately compound leaves and small greenish flowers and forked aromatic roots believed to have medicinal powers
sauromalus obesus;rock-dwelling herbivorous lizard of arid parts of southwestern united states and mexico
testudo graeca;small land tortoise of southern europe
hoop pine;pine of australia and new guinea. yields a valuable light even-textured wood
cushaw;plant bearing squash having globose to ovoid fruit with variously striped gray and green and white warty rinds
bushbuck;antelope with white markings like a harness and twisted horns
pichiciago;very small argentine armadillo with pale silky hair and pink plates on head and neck
twistwood;vigorous deciduous european treelike shrub common along waysides. red berries turn black
caladium bicolor;most popular caladium. cultivated in many varieties since the late 19th century
eupatorium aya pana;low spreading tropical american shrub with long slender leaves used to make a mildly stimulating drink resembling tea. sometimes placed in genus eupatorium
american plane;very large spreading plane tree of eastern and central north america to mexico
vinifera grape;common european grape cultivated in many varieties. chief source of old world wine and table grapes
senna alexandrina;erect shrub having racemes of tawny yellow flowers. the dried leaves are used medicinally as a cathartic. sometimes placed in genus cassia
rocky mountain bristlecone pine;small slow-growing upland pine of western united states (rocky mountains) having dense branches with fissured rust-brown bark and short needles in bunches of 5 and thorn-tipped cone scales. among the oldest living things some over 4500 years old
gadus merlangus;a food fish of european atlantic waters resembling the cod. sometimes placed in genus gadus
black haw;upright deciduous shrub having frosted dark-blue fruit. east and east central north america
painted terrapin;freshwater turtles having bright yellow and red markings. common in the eastern united states
european dune grass;a dune grass of the pacific seacoast used as a sand binder
ghost weed;annual spurge of western united states having showy white-bracted flower clusters and very poisonous milk
crowbait;an emaciated horse likely soon to become carrion and so attractive to crows
ribes sativum;garden currant bearing small white berries
true heath;any plant of the genus erica
heart urchin;sea urchin having a heart-shaped body in a rigid spiny shell
chinch;bug of temperate regions that infests esp. beds and feeds on human blood
domestic dog;a member of the genus canis (probably descended from the common wolf) that has been domesticated by man since prehistoric times. occurs in many breeds. 'the dog barked all night'
cashew;tropical american evergreen tree bearing kidney-shaped nuts that are edible only when roasted
destroying angel;extremely poisonous usually white fungus with a prominent cup-shaped base. differs from edible agaricus only in its white gills
alnus crispa;north american shrub with light green leaves and winged nuts
fringed loosestrife;of north america
iris germanica florentina;german iris having large white flowers with lavender-tinged falls and a fragrant rhizome
summer damask rose;large hardy very fragrant pink rose. cultivated in asia minor as source of attar of roses. parent of many hybrids
rotavirus;the reovirus causing infant enteritis
pigmy talinum;low plant with crowded narrow succulent leaves and fairly large deep pink axillary flowers that seem to sit on the ground. southwestern united states
peachleaf willow;willow of the western united states with leaves like those of peach or almond trees
brown lemming;of northwestern canada and alaska
cytisus multiflorus;low european broom having trifoliate leaves and yellowish-white flowers
tilefish;important marine food fishes
thresher;a machine for separating seeds or grain from the husks and straw
fin whale;large flat-headed whalebone whale having deep furrows along the throat. of atlantic and pacific
guinea hen;female guinea fowl
cackler;a hen that has just laid an egg and emits a shrill squawk
creeping bellflower;erect european herb with creeping rootstocks and nodding spikelike racemes of blue to violet flowers
durmast;deciduous european oak valued for its tough elastic wood
tilia americana;large american shade tree with large dark green leaves and rounded crown
anacardium occidentale;tropical american evergreen tree bearing kidney-shaped nuts that are edible only when roasted
manioc;cassava with long tuberous edible roots and soft brittle stems. used especially to make cassiri (an intoxicating drink) and tapioca
american elder;common elder of central and eastern north america bearing purple-black berries. fruit used in wines and jellies
gyromitra infula;a poisonous fungus. saddle-shaped and dull yellow to brown fertile part is relatively even
snow pea;variety of pea plant producing peas having thin flat edible pods
mediterranean fruit fly;small black-and-white fly that damages citrus and other fruits by implanting eggs that hatch inside the fruit
gulfweed;brown algae with rounded bladders forming dense floating masses in tropical atlantic waters as in the sargasso sea
transvaal daisy;widely cultivated south african perennial having flower heads with orange to flame-colored rays
capped macaque;indian macaque with a bonnet-like tuft of hair
brown creeper;common american brown creeper with down-curved bill
rocky mountain bee plant;plant of western north america having trifoliate leaves and white or pink spider-shaped flowers. sometimes used as an ornamental
black raspberry;raspberry native to eastern north america having black thimble-shaped fruit
bombyx mori;stocky creamy-white asiatic moth found almost entirely under human care. the source of most of the silk of commerce
mason wasp;solitary wasp that constructs nests of hardened mud or clay for the young
witchgrass;north american grass with slender brushy panicles. often a weed on cultivated land
white cinnamon tree;large evergreen shrub or small tree having white aromatic bark and leathery leaves and small purple to red flowers in terminal cymes
betel palm;southeastern asian palm bearing betel nuts (scarlet or orange single-seeded fruit with a fibrous husk)
pigfish;found around the great barrier reef
dionaea muscipula;carnivorous plant of coastal plains of the carolinas having sensitive hinged marginally bristled leaf blades that close and entrap insects
sea scallop;large scallop inhabiting deep waters of the north american atlantic coast
sunfish;small carnivorous freshwater percoid fishes of north america usually having a laterally compressed body and metallic luster: crappies. black bass. bluegills. pumpkinseed
lemmus trimucronatus;of northwestern canada and alaska
cormous plant;plant growing from a corm
fraxinus americana;spreading american ash with leaves pale green or silvery beneath and having hard brownish wood
red setter;an irish breed with a chestnut-brown or mahogany-red coat
blue fox;a variety of arctic_fox having a pale gray winter coat
usnea barbata;greenish gray pendulous lichen growing on trees
devil s weed;tropical annual procumbent poisonous subshrub having fruit that splits into five spiny nutlets. serious pasture weed
white ant;whitish soft-bodied ant-like social insect that feeds on wood
senna;any of various plants of the genus senna having pinnately compound leaves and showy usually yellow flowers. many are used medicinally
godwit;large wading bird that resembles a curlew. has a long slightly upturned bill
american lime;large american shade tree with large dark green leaves and rounded crown
pepper;climber having dark red berries (peppercorns) when fully ripe. southern india and sri lanka. naturalized in north burma and assam
golden crownbeard;coarse grayish green annual yellow-flowered herb. southwestern united states to mexico
false mistletoe;american plants closely resembling old world mistletoe
dioon;any cycad of the genus dioon. handsome palmlike cycads with robust crowns of leaves and rugged trunks
hamamelis virginiana;common shrub of eastern north america having small yellow flowers after the leaves have fallen
ground squirrel;any of various terrestrial burrowing rodents of old and new worlds. often destroy crops
coffee fungus;fungus causing a disease in coffee and some other tropical plants
notechis scutatus;highly venomous brown-and-yellow snake of australia and tasmania
actinidia chinensis;climbing vine native to china. cultivated in new zealand for its fuzzy edible green-meated fruit
female mammal;animals that nourish their young with milk
linotype;a keyboard-operated typesetting machine that casts an entire line as a single slug of metal
fish eagle;large harmless hawk found worldwide that feeds on fish and builds a bulky nest often occupied for years
firebird;the male is bright red with black wings and tail
glareole;old world shorebird with long pointed wings and short legs. closely related to the coursers
african lily;african plant with bright green evergreen leaves and umbels of many usually deep violet-blue flowers
argiope aurantia;a widely distributed north american garden spider
white turnip;widely cultivated plant having a large fleshy edible white or yellow root
python molurus;very large python of southeast asia
ploceus philippinus;common indian weaverbird
polemonium van bruntiae;pinnate-leaved european perennial having bright blue or white flowers
tassel flower;young leaves widely used as leaf vegetables. seeds used as cereal
maiger;large european marine food fish
falco subbuteo;small old world falcon formerly trained and flown at small birds
old world monkey;of africa arabia or asia. having nonprehensile tails and nostrils close together
pore mushrum;woody pore fungi. any fungus of the family polyporaceae or family boletaceae having the spore-bearing surface within tubes or pores. the fruiting bodies are usually woody at maturity and persistent
lagostomus maximus;gregarious burrowing rodent larger than the chinchillas
dumetella carolinensis;north american songbird whose call resembles a cat's mewing
lesser wintergreen;the common wintergreen having many-flowered racemes of pink-tinged white flowers. europe and north america
chard plant;beet lacking swollen root. grown as a vegetable for its edible leaves and stalks
bog star;plant having ovate leaves in a basal rosette and white starlike flowers netted with green
silver leaved nettle;weedy nightshade with silvery foliage and violet or blue or white flowers. roundish berry widely used to curdle milk. central united states to south america
shoeblack plant;large showy asiatic shrub or small tree having large single or double red to deep-red flowers
pernis apivorus;old world hawk that feeds on bee larvae and small rodents and reptiles
saturnia pavonia;large moth of temperate forests of eurasia having heavily scaled transparent wings
striped squirrel;small striped semiterrestrial eastern american squirrel with cheek pouches
bittern;relatively small compact tawny-brown heron with nocturnal habits and a booming cry. found in marshes
brahman;any of several breeds of indian cattle especially a large american heat- and tick-resistant grayish humped breed evolved in the gulf states by interbreeding indian cattle and now used chiefly for crossbreeding
zigadenus venenosus;plant of western north america to mexico. poisonous especially to grazing animals
dog;a member of the genus canis (probably descended from the common wolf) that has been domesticated by man since prehistoric times. occurs in many breeds. 'the dog barked all night'
bristlecone pine;small slow-growing upland pine of western united states (rocky mountains) having dense branches with fissured rust-brown bark and short needles in bunches of 5 and thorn-tipped cone scales. among the oldest living things some over 4500 years old
lavender;any of various old world aromatic shrubs or subshrubs with usually mauve or blue flowers. widely cultivated
food fish;any fish used for food by human beings
pisonia aculeata;small spiny west indian tree
ligneous plant;a plant having hard lignified tissues or woody parts especially stems
redbreast;small old world songbird with a reddish breast
coelogyne;any of various orchids of the genus coelogyne with: clusters of fragrant lacy snow-white flowers. sinister salmon-pink solitary flowers. chainlike racemes of topaz and chocolate brown flowers. spikes of delicate white spice-scented flowers. emerald green flowers marked with blue-black
mustela erminea;mustelid of northern hemisphere in its white winter coat
antennaria dioica;low-growing perennial herb having leaves with whitish down and clusters of small white flowers
acer glabrum;small maple of northwestern north america
snowdrop;common anemone of eastern north america with solitary pink-tinged white flowers
pinus densiflora;pine native to japan and korea having a wide-spreading irregular crown when mature. grown as an ornamental
living stone;any plant of the genus lithops native to africa having solitary yellow or white flowers and thick leaves that resemble stones
moon trefoil;evergreen shrub of southern european highlands having downy foliage and a succession of yellow flowers throughout the summer followed by curious snail-shaped pods
glyceria grandis;a pasture grass of moist places throughout north america
martes foina;eurasian marten having a brown coat with pale breast and throat
spider mite;web-spinning mite that attacks garden plants and fruit trees
golden fern;tropical american fern having fronds with light golden undersides
socotra begonia;semituberous begonia having peltate leaves and rose-pink flowers. yemen
frijolillo;shrub or small tree having pinnate leaves poisonous to livestock and dense racemes of intensely fragrant blue flowers and red beans
swamp oak;fast-growing medium to large pyramidal deciduous tree of northeastern united states and southeastern canada having deeply pinnatifid leaves that turn bright red in autumn. thrives in damp soil
floating fern;aquatic fern of tropical america often used in aquariums
gymnogyps californianus;north american condor. chiefly dull black. almost extinct
mastotermes electromexicus;extinct termite found in amber in s mexico
snow in summer;chickweed with hairy silver-gray leaves and rather large white flowers
jimpsonweed;intensely poisonous tall coarse annual tropical weed having rank-smelling foliage, large white or violet trumpet-shaped flowers and prickly fruits
spotted ray;ray with back covered with white or yellow spots. widely distributed in warm seas
rose of jericho;small gray asiatic desert plant bearing minute white flowers that rolls up when dry and expands when moist
pelargonium graveolens;any of several southern african geraniums having fragrant 3- to 5-lobed leaves and pink flowers
yosemite toad;of high sierra nevada meadows and forest borders
vibrio fetus;bacteria that cause abortion in sheep
chain saw;portable power saw. teeth linked to form an endless chain
boat bug;carnivorous aquatic bug having paddle-like hind legs
beetleweed;tufted evergreen perennial herb having spikes of tiny white flowers and glossy green round to heart-shaped leaves that become coppery to maroon or purplish in fall
agastache nepetoides;erect perennial with stout stems and yellow-green flowers. southern canada and southeastern united states
bruin;a conventional name for a bear used in tales following usage in the old epic 'reynard the fox'
parka squirrel;large ground squirrel of the north american far north
rat kangaroo;any of several rabbit-sized rat-like australian kangaroos
tillandsia usneoides;dense festoons of greenish-gray hairlike flexuous strands anchored to tree trunks and branches by sparse wiry roots. southeastern united states and west indies to south america
elaterid;any of various widely distributed beetles
pacific cod;closely related to atlantic cod
pelecanus onocrotalus;similar to american white pelican
gall gnat;fragile mosquito-like flies that produce galls on plants
soapberry;a tree of the genus sapindus whose fruit is rich in saponin
lagopus scoticus;reddish-brown grouse of upland moors of great britain
wolf s milk;tall european perennial naturalized and troublesome as a weed in eastern north america
monilia albicans;a parasitic fungus that can infect the mouth or the skin or the intestines or the vagina
black tree fern;showy tree fern of new zealand and australia area having a crown of much-pinnated fronds with whitish undersides
python;large old world boas
black larch;medium-sized larch of canada and northern united states including alaska having a broad conic crown and rust-brown scaly bark
tanager;any of numerous new world woodland birds having brightly colored males
caper tree;shrub of southern florida to west indies
prussian asparagus;old world star of bethlehem having edible young shoots
cudweed;any of numerous plants of the genus gnaphalium having flowers that can be dried without loss of form or color
avens;any of various perennials of the genus geum having usually pinnate basal leaves and variously colored flowers
podocarpus dacrydioides;new zealand evergreen valued for its light easily worked wood
bibos frontalis;ox of southeast asia sometimes considered a domesticated breed of the gaur
wild licorice;north american plant similar to true licorice and having a root with similar properties
prairie bird s foot trefoil;north american annual with red or rose-colored flowers
spotted skunk;small skunk with a marbled black and white coat. of united states and mexico
onion smut;smut fungus causing blackish blisters on scales and leaves of onions. especially destructive to seedlings
begonia cheimantha;hybrid winter-blooming begonia grown for its many large pink flowers. derived from b dregei and b socotrana
california dandelion;european weed widely naturalized in north america having yellow flower heads and leaves resembling a cat's ears
cerastes;highly venomous viper of north africa and southwest asia having a horny spine above each eye
indian pony;a small native range horse
catchweed;annual having the stem beset with curved prickles. north america and europe and asia
mountain daisy;boreal or alpine sandwort
water ouzel;small stocky diving bird without webbed feet. frequents fast-flowing streams and feeds along the bottom
starling;gregarious birds native to the old world
ipomoea imperialis;hybrid from ipomoea nil
crataegus monogyna;european hawthorn having deeply cleft leaves and bright red fruits. widely cultivated in many varieties and often grown as impenetrable hedges. established as an escape in eastern north america
piper nigrum;climber having dark red berries (peppercorns) when fully ripe. southern india and sri lanka. naturalized in north burma and assam
italian vegetable marrow;squash plant having dark green fruit with skin mottled with light green or yellow
pleurocarpous moss;a moss having the archegonium or antheridium on a short side branch rather than the main stalk
coyote brush;widely spreading evergreen shrub of southwestern united states with flower heads in a leafy panicle
black eyed susan;the state flower of maryland. of central and southeastern united states. having daisylike flowers with dark centers and yellow to orange rays
protium guianense;tropical american tree
peke;a chinese breed of small short-legged dogs with a long silky coat and broad flat muzzle
hibiscus syriacus;asiatic shrub or small shrubby tree having showy bell-shaped rose or purple or white flowers and usually 3-lobed leaves. widely cultivated in temperate north america and europe
woodruff;old world fragrant stoloniferous perennial having small white flowers and narrow leaves used as flavoring and in sachets. widely cultivated as a ground cover. in some classifications placed in genus asperula
amberboa moschata;asian plant widely grown for its sweetly fragrant pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus centaurea
window oyster;marine bivalve common in philippine coastal waters characterized by a large thin flat translucent shell
talinum spinescens;low cushion-forming plant with rose to crimson-magenta flowers and leaf midribs that persist as spines when the leaves die. southwestern united states
bicolor lespediza;asian shrub having conspicuous racemose rose-purple flowers widely used as an ornamental and in erosion control and as a source of wild-bird feed
number cruncher;a computer capable of performing a large number of mathematical operations per second
prairie white fringed orchis;orchid of boggy or wet lands of north central united states having racemes of very fragrant creamy or greenish white flowers
red ginger;an ornamental ginger native to pacific islands
horsetail milkweed;milkweed of southwestern united states and mexico. poisonous to livestock
blackjack;a common scrubby deciduous tree of central and southeastern united states having dark bark and broad 3-lobed (club-shaped) leaves. tends to form dense thickets
vigna angularis;bushy annual widely grown in china and japan for the flour made from its seeds
oregon white oak;small deciduous tree of western north america with crooked branches and pale gray bark
hay conditioner;a farm machine that treats hay to cause more rapid and even drying
pineapple;a tropical american plant bearing a large fleshy edible fruit with a terminal tuft of stiff leaves. widely cultivated in the tropics
green bean;common bean plant cultivated for its slender green edible pods
castilleja miniata;wildflower of western north america having ragged clusters of crimson or scarlet flowers
pinus virginiana;common small shrubby pine of the eastern united states having straggling often twisted or branches and short needles in bunches of 2
calf;young of domestic cattle
sterculia foetida;large tree of old world tropics having foul-smelling orange-red blossoms followed by red pods enclosing oil-rich seeds sometimes used as food
lemon tree;a small evergreen tree that originated in asia but is widely cultivated for its fruit
soft shell clam;an edible clam with thin oval-shaped shell found in coastal regions of the united states and europe
bird of prey;any of numerous carnivorous birds that hunt and kill other animals
snowy tree cricket;pale yellowish tree cricket widely distributed in north america
bearberry;shrubby tree of united states pacific coast. yields cascara sagrada
barn owl;mottled buff and white owl often inhabiting barns and other structures. important in rodent control
leaf nosed snake;any of various pale blotched snakes with a blunt snout of southwestern north america
markhoor;large himalayan goat with large spiraled horns
alder tree;north temperate shrubs or trees having toothed leaves and conelike fruit. bark is used in tanning and dyeing and the rot-resistant wood
parietaria difussa;herb that grows in crevices having long narrow leaves and small pink apetalous flowers
bloodwort;any of various plants of the family haemodoraceae. roots contain a deep red coloring matter
maltese cross;eurasian garden perennial having scarlet flowers in dense terminal heads
ranunculus ficaria;perennial herb native to europe but naturalized elsewhere having heart-shaped leaves and yellow flowers resembling buttercups. its tuberous roots have been used as a poultice to relieve piles
soldier;a wingless sterile ant or termite having a large head and powerful jaws adapted for defending the colony
sussex spaniel;an english breed with short legs and a golden liver-colored coat
nepal trumpet flower;evergreen woody twiner with large glossy leaves and showy corymbs of fragrant white trumpet-shaped flowers
hemlock tree;an evergreen tree
saxicola torquata;common european chat with black plumage and a reddish-brown breast
hyssopus officinalis;a european mint with aromatic and pungent leaves used in perfumery and as a seasoning in cookery. often cultivated as a remedy for bruises. yields hyssop oil
siberian spruce;tall spruce of northern europe and asia. resembles norway spruce
livingstone daisy;low-growing showy succulent annual of south africa having white or pink or red or orange flowers and spatulate leaves covered in crystal-like papillae
shell bean;a bean plant grown primarily for its edible seed rather than its pod
quinnat salmon;large pacific salmon valued as food. adults die after spawning
bonnethead;small harmless hammerhead having a spade-shaped head. abundant in bays and estuaries
lepiota naucina;an agaric with grayish white fruiting body and gills that change from pink to dingy red
canavalia ensiformis;annual semierect bushy plant of tropical south america bearing long pods with white seeds grown especially for forage
macadamia ternifolia;small australian tree with racemes of pink flowers. widely cultivated (especially in hawaii) for its sweet edible nuts
water horsetail;eurasia. northern north america to virginia
royal fern;large deeply rooted fern of worldwide distribution with upright bipinnate compound tufted fronds
water chevrotain;largest chevrotain. of marshy areas of west africa
pacific newt;any of several rough-skinned newts found in western north america
abies lowiana;medium to tall fir of central to western united states having a narrow erect crown and soft wood
cup morel;an edible morel with a cup-shaped or saucer-shaped fruiting body can be up to 20 cm wide. the fertile surface inside the cup has wrinkles radiating from the center. can be easily confused with inedible mushrooms
carcajou;stocky shaggy-coated north american carnivorous mammal
echinochloa frumentacea;coarse annual grass cultivated in japan and southeastern asia for its edible seeds and for forage. important wildlife food in united states
panicum virgatum;grass of western america used for hay
periodical cicada;north american cicada. appears in great numbers at infrequent intervals because the nymphs take 13' to 17' years to mature
plethodon vehiculum;salamander of the pacific coast of north america
milk thistle;any of several old world coarse prickly-leaved shrubs and subshrubs having milky juice and yellow flowers. widely naturalized. often noxious weeds in cultivated soil
cock;adult male chicken
heliothis moth;medium-sized moth whose larvae are corn earworms
karakul;hardy coarse-haired sheep of central asia. lambs are valued for their soft curly black fur
scots pine;medium large 2-needled pine of northern europe and asia having flaking red-brown bark
pygmy sperm whale;small sperm whale of warm waters of both coasts of north america
dusky footed woodrat;host to lyme disease tick (ixodes pacificus) in northern california
puma;large american feline resembling a lion
taraktogenos kurzii;east indian tree with oily seeds yield chaulmoogra oil used to treat leprosy
twinflower;creeping evergreen subshrub of the northern parts of europe and asia with delicate fragrant tubular bell-shaped usually pink flowers borne in pairs
bubalus mindorensis;small buffalo of mindoro in the philippines
calopogon tuberosum;an orchid
blissus leucopterus;small black-and-white insect that feeds on cereal grasses
no see um;minute two-winged insect that sucks the blood of mammals and birds and other insects
characin;any freshwater fish of the family characinidae
lavender cotton;branching aromatic mediterranean shrub with woolly stems and leaves and yellow flowers
sweet lime;lemon tree having fruit with a somewhat insipid sweetish pulp
katsura tree;rapidly growing deciduous tree of low mountainsides of china and japan. grown as an ornamental for its dark blue-green candy-scented foliage that becomes yellow to scarlet in autumn
circaea lutetiana;tall evening primrose with inconspicuous flowers
atlas cedar;tall algerian evergreen of atlas mountains with blue-green leaves. widely planted as an ornamental
pine finch;small finch of north american coniferous forests
colorado spruce;tall spruce with blue-green needles and dense conic crown. older trees become columnar with lower branches sweeping downward
big shellbark;hickory of the eastern united states resembling the shagbark but having a much larger nut
aneides lugubris;yellow-spotted brown salamander of california woodlands
phyllostachys bambusoides;large bamboo having thick-walled culms. native of china and perhaps japan. widely brown elsewhere
borrelia burgdorferi;cause of lyme disease. transmitted primarily by ticks of genus ixodes
red haw;american red-fruited hawthorn with dense corymbs of pink-red flowers
carrageen;dark purple edible seaweed of the atlantic coasts of europe and north america
dipteran;insects having usually a single pair of functional wings (anterior pair) with the posterior pair reduced to small knobbed structures and mouth parts adapted for sucking or lapping or piercing
vallisneria spiralis;submerged aquatic plant with ribbonlike leaves. old world and australia
ti;shrub with terminal tufts of elongated leaves used locally for thatching and clothing. thick sweet roots are used as food. tropical southeastern asia, australia and hawaii
sewellel;bulky nocturnal burrowing rodent of uplands of the pacific coast of north america. the most primitive living rodent
glossina;blood-sucking african fly. transmits sleeping sickness etc.
quercus alba;large slow-growing deciduous tree of the eastern united states having stout spreading branches and leaves with usually 7 rounded lobes. yields strong and durable hard wood
mezcal;a small spineless globe-shaped cactus. source of mescal buttons
chlamydosaurus kingi;large arboreal insectivorous australian lizard with a ruff of skin around the neck
water speedwell;plant of wet places in eurasia and america
hack;a saddle horse used for transportation rather than sport etc.
old man;aromatic herb of temperate eurasia and north africa having a bitter taste used in making the liqueur absinthe
waxwork;twining shrub of north america having three-valved yellow capsules enclosing scarlet seeds
styphelia triflora;heathlike shrub of southwestern australia grown for its sharply scented foliage and pink flowers followed by pentagonal fruit
friar s cowl;tuberous perennial having a cowl-shaped maroon or violet-black spathe. mediterranean. canaries. azores
hoya;any plant of the genus hoya having fleshy leaves and usually nectariferous flowers
snapdragon;a garden plant of the genus antirrhinum having showy white or yellow or crimson flowers resembling the face of a dragon
tiger rattlesnake;having irregularly cross-banded back. of arid foothills and canyons of southern arizona and mexico
reed grass;any of various tall perennial grasses of the genus calamagrostis having feathery plumes. natives of marshland fens and wet woodlands of temperate northern hemisphere
dryopteris filix mas;fern of north america and europe whose rhizomes and stalks yield an oleoresin used to expel tapeworms
rhizopus nigricans;a mold of the genus rhizopus
vase fine;scandent subshrub of southeastern united states having large red-purple bell-shaped flowers with leathery recurved sepals
cereal;grass whose starchy grains are used as food: wheat. rice. rye. oats. maize. buckwheat. millet
coral gem;low-growing much-branched perennial of canary islands having orange-red to scarlet or purple flowers. naturalized in united states
palm cat;spotted or striped arboreal civet of southeast asia and east indies
meadow foxtail;stout erect perennial grass of northern parts of old world having silky flowering spikes. widely cultivated for pasture and hay. naturalized in north america
sus scrofa;old world wild swine having a narrow body and prominent tusks from which most domestic swine come. introduced in united states
tripleurospermum oreades tchihatchewii;mat-forming perennial herb of asia minor. sometimes included in genus matricaria
mayhaw;hawthorn of southern united states bearing juicy acid scarlet fruit often used in jellies or preserves
laurus nobilis;small mediterranean evergreen tree with small blackish berries and glossy aromatic leaves used for flavoring in cooking. also used by ancient greeks to crown victors
greasewood;low hardy much-branched spiny shrub common in alkaline soils of western america
belladonna;perennial eurasian herb with reddish bell-shaped flowers and shining black berries. extensively grown in united states. roots and leaves yield atropine
golden gram;erect bushy annual widely cultivated in warm regions of india and indonesia and united states for forage and especially its edible seeds. chief source of bean sprouts used in chinese cookery. sometimes plaaaced in genus phaseolus
tower cress;or genus arabis: erect cress widely distributed throughout europe
korean lawn grass;lawn grass common in china and japan. grown also in united states
two grain spelt;hard red wheat grown especially in russia and germany. in united states as stock feed
trepang;of warm coasts from australia to asia. used as food esp. by chinese
long tailed porcupine;porcupine of borneo and sumatra having short spines and a long tail
staurikosaur;primitive dinosaur found in brazil
leptoptilus crumeniferus;large african black-and-white carion-eating stork. downy under-wing feathers are used to trim garments
mandevilla boliviensis;shrubby climber having glossy leaves and white funnel-shaped flowers with yellow throats
bigtoothed aspen;aspen with a narrow crown. eastern north america
garden egg;hairy upright herb native to southeastern asia but widely cultivated for its large glossy edible fruit commonly used as a vegetable
spanish mackerel;medium-sized mackerel of temperate atlantic and gulf of mexico
bryophyte;any of numerous plants of the division bryophyta
bottlegrass;european foxtail naturalized in north america. often a troublesome weed
moss pink;low wiry-stemmed branching herb or southern california having fringed pink flowers
quercus palustris;fast-growing medium to large pyramidal deciduous tree of northeastern united states and southeastern canada having deeply pinnatifid leaves that turn bright red in autumn. thrives in damp soil
prototherian;primitive oviparous mammals found only in australia tasmania and new guinea
jamaica dogwood;small tree of west indies and florida having large odd-pinnate leaves and panicles of red-striped purple to white flowers followed by decorative curly winged seedpods. yields fish poisons
swamp hickory;hickory of the eastern united states having a leaves with 7 or 9 leaflets and thin-shelled very bitter nuts
aporocactus flagelliformis;commonly cultivated tropical american cactus having slender creeping stems and very large showy crimson flowers that bloom for several days
curly clematis;climber of southern united states having bluish-purple flowers
iresine reticulata;south american plant having green to purple or red branches with green to purple ornamental foliage and spikes of insignificant woolly flowers with dry membranous bracts
thyme leaved speedwell;perennial decumbent herb having small opposite leaves and racemes of blue flowers. throughout eurasia and the new world
viverrine mammal;small catlike predatory mammals of warmer parts of the old world
leatherleaf wood fern;north american fern with evergreen fronds
chigoe;small tropical flea. the fertile female burrows under the skin of the host including humans
woolly aphid;secretes a waxy substance like a mass of fine curly white cotton or woolly threads
iron oak;medium-sized evergreen of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico with oblong leathery often spiny-edged leaves
sarcobatus vermiculatus;low hardy much-branched spiny shrub common in alkaline soils of western america
lagarostrobus colensoi;timber tree of new zealand having shiny white wood
larix decidua;tall european tree having a slender conic crown, flat needlelike leaves, and hairy cone scales
leucanthemum vulgare;tall leafy-stemmed eurasian perennial with white flowers. widely naturalized. often placed in genus chrysanthemum
mantispid;insect that resembles a mantis. larvae are parasites in the nests of spiders and wasps
richardson vole;of western north america
white mountain ash;large tree with dark compact bark on lower trunk but smooth and white above. yields lumber similar to that of european or american ashes
nitrosobacteria;soil bacteria that oxidize ammonia to nitrites
spotted hemlock;tall biennial water hemlock of northeastern north america having purple-spotted stems and clusters of extremely poisonous tuberous roots resembling small sweet potatoes
fava bean;seed of the broad-bean plant
soft wheat;wheat with soft starch kernels used in pastry and breakfast cereals
chrysothamnus nauseosus;pleasantly aromatic shrub having erect slender flexible hairy branches and dense clusters of small yellow flowers covering vast areas of western alkali plains and affording a retreat for jackrabbits. source of a yellow dye used by navajo indians
anomia ephippium;thin-shelled bivalve having the right valve deeply notched
forest tent caterpillar;larvae of a gregarious north american moth that spins a carpet rather than a tent. serious defoliator of deciduous trees
monstera deliciosa;tropical american vine having hanging cord-like roots and cylindrical fruit with pineapple-banana flavor
great black backed gull;white gull having a black back and wings
grifola frondosa;large grayish-brown edible fungus forming a mass of overlapping caps that somewhat resembles a hen at the base of trees
mexican hat;coneflower with flower heads resembling a mexican hat with a tall red-brown disk and drooping yellow or yellow and red-brown rays. great plains along base of rocky mountains
apis mellifera scutellata;a strain of bees that originated in brazil in the 1950s as a cross between an aggressive african bee and a honeybee. retains most of the traits of the african bee. now spread as far north as texas
seeing eye dog;a dog trained to guide the blind
horehound;any of various aromatic herbs of the genus marrubium
mountain pride;mat-forming plant with deep pink flowers on short erect leafy stems. rocky places at high elevations from oregon to california
suricata suricatta;a meerkat with a thin and elongated tail
gentiana clausa;similar to gentiana andrewsii but with larger flowers
green monkey;common savannah monkey with greenish-gray back and yellow tail
salmon;any of various large food and game fishes of northern waters. usually migrate from salt to fresh water to spawn
eucalyptus citriodora;similar to but smaller than the spotted gum and having lemon-scented leaves
white stringybark;stringybark having white wood
soft tree fern;of australia and tasmania. often cultivated. hardy in cool climates
bouncing bess;plant of european origin having pink or white flowers and leaves yielding a detergent when bruised
bonefish;slender silvery marine fish found in tropical mud flats and mangrove lagoons
orchid;any of numerous plants of the orchid family usually having flowers of unusual shapes and beautiful colors
star duckweed;cosmopolitan in temperate regions except north america
chinese angelica;similar to american angelica tree but less prickly. china
flying robin;tropical fish with huge fanlike pectoral fins for underwater gliding. unrelated to searobins
fire salamander;european salamander having dark skin with usually yellow spots
celastric articulatus;ornamental asiatic vine with showy orange-yellow fruit with a scarlet aril. naturalized in north america
purslane;a plant of the family portulacaceae having fleshy succulent obovate leaves often grown as a potherb or salad herb. a weed in some areas
clumber spaniel;a thickset spaniel with longish silky hair
cucurbita foetidissima;perennial vine of dry parts of central and southwestern united states and mexico having small hard mottled green inedible fruit
ciliated protozoan;a protozoan with a microscopic appendage extending from the surface of the cell
cryptotermes brevis;extremely destructive dry-wood termite of warm regions
bull mastiff;large powerful breed developed by crossing the bulldog and the mastiff
western meadowlark;a meadowlark of western north america
danaid butterfly;large tropical butterfly with degenerate forelegs and an unpleasant taste
pie dog;ownerless half-wild mongrel dog common around asian villages especially india
peronospora destructor;fungus causing a downy mildew on onions
scad;any of a number of fishes of the family carangidae
sciaenid;widely distributed family of carnivorous percoid fishes having a large air bladder used to produce sound
uruguay potato vine;south american potato vine
sorrel;any of certain coarse weedy plants with long taproots, sometimes used as table greens or in folk medicine
characid;any freshwater fish of the family characinidae
moonseed;plant of the family menispermaceae having red or black fruit with crescent- or ring-shaped seeds
wild fig;a strangler tree native to southern florida and west indies. begins as an epiphyte eventually developing many trunklike aerial roots and covering enormous areas
lady s eardrop;erect or climbing shrub of brazil with deep pink to red flowers
gray mullet;freshwater or coastal food fishes a spindle-shaped body. found worldwide
showy goldenrod;a variety of goldenrod
husk tomato;any of numerous cosmopolitan annual or perennial herbs of the genus physalis bearing edible fleshy berries enclosed in a bladderlike husk. some cultivated for their flowers
ageratum;any plant of the genus ageratum having opposite leaves and small heads of blue or white flowers
palmyra palm;tall fan palm of africa and india and malaysia yielding a hard wood and sweet sap that is a source of palm wine and sugar. leaves used for thatching and weaving
avahi laniger;nocturnal indris with thick gray-brown fur and a long tail
phallus ravenelii;this stinkhorn has a cap with a granulose surface at the apex and smells like decaying flesh
thin shelled mussel;mussel with thin fragile shells having only rudimentary hinge teeth
counter;a calculator that keeps a record of the number of times something happens
quercus montana;medium to large deciduous tree of the eastern united states. its durable wood is used as timber or split and woven into baskets or chair seats
boletus frostii;a fungus with a red cap and a red coarsely reticulate stalk
evergreen blueberry;shrub of the eastern united states having shining evergreen leaves and bluish-black fruit
blue lotus;blue lotus of india and southeastern asia
red backed sandpiper;small common sandpiper that breeds in northern or arctic regions and winters in southern united states or mediterranean regions
human papilloma virus;any of a group of papovaviruses associated with genital or oral carcinomas or a group associated with benign genital tumors
old world crayfish;small crayfish of europe and asia and western north america
japanese radish;radish of japan with a long hard durable root eaten raw or cooked
southern aster;a variety of aster
bryanthus;procumblent old world mat-forming evergreen shrub with racemes of pinkish-white 4-parted flowers
ridley;a marine turtle
slime mold;a naked mass of protoplasm having characteristics of both plants and animals. sometimes classified as protoctists
caddis fly;small moth-like insect having two pairs of hairy membranous wings and aquatic larvae
lithophragma affinis;california perennial herb cultivated for its racemose white flowers with widely spreading petals. sometimes placed in genus tellima
common newt;small semiaquatic salamander
black racer;blackish racer of the eastern united states that grows to six feet
adenium obesum;south african shrub having a swollen succulent stem and bearing showy pink and white flowers after the leaves fall. popular as an ornamental in tropics
sport;an organism that has characteristics resulting from chromosomal alteration
pavonia;any of various evergreen plants of the genus pavonia having white or yellow or purple flowers
tiglon;offspring of a male tiger and a female lion
giant schnauzer;a large schnauzer
anguis fragilis;small burrowing legless european lizard with tiny eyes. popularly believed to be blind
synanceja verrucosa;venomous tropical marine fish resembling a piece of rock
red necked grebe;large stocky grebe of circumpolar regions having a dark neck
order ostariophysi;in some classifications considered a superorder comprising the cypriniformes and the siluriformes
pennyroyal;erect hairy branching american herb having purple-blue flowers. yields an essential oil used as an insect repellent and sometimes in folk medicine
huntsman s cups;perennial bog herb having dark red flowers and decumbent broadly winged pitchers forming a rosette. of northeastern north america and naturalized in europe especially ireland
mimosa;evergreen australasian tree having white or silvery bark and young leaves and yellow flowers
binder;a machine that cuts grain and binds it in sheaves
threshing machine;a machine for separating seeds or grain from the husks and straw
jackrabbit;large hare of western north america
barbary sheep;wild sheep of northern africa
cavy;short-tailed rough-haired south american rodent
pekingese;a chinese breed of small short-legged dogs with a long silky coat and broad flat muzzle
bell toad;western north american frog with a tail-like copulatory organ
european sea eagle;bulky grayish-brown eagle with a short wedge-shaped white tail. of europe and greenland
bustard quail;small quail-like terrestrial bird of southern eurasia and north africa that lacks a hind toe. classified with wading birds but inhabits grassy plains
chaenomeles japonica;deciduous thorny shrub native to japan having red blossoms
bottom rot fungus;fungus causing bottom rot in lettuce
salix uva ursi;dwarf prostrate mat-forming shrub of arctic and alpine regions of north america and greenland having deep green elliptic leaves that taper toward the base
common teasel;teasel with lilac flowers native to old world but naturalized in north america. dried flower heads used to raise a nap on woolen cloth
moehringia lateriflora;low-growing herb having clusters of small white-flowers 4-petaled flowers
southwestern lip fern;lip fern of texas to oklahoma and colorado and arizona and mexico having tall erect tufted fronds
mountain andromeda;ornamental evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having small white bell-shaped flowers
goldcrest;european kinglet with a black-bordered yellow crown patch
trumpet tree;tropical american tree with large peltate leaves and hollow stems
fritillaria micrantha;california herb with brownish-purple or greenish bell-shaped flowers
tangle orchid;an orchid of the genus plectorrhiza having tangled roots and long wiry stems bearing lax racemes of small fragrant green flowers
goatsucker;mainly crepuscular or nocturnal nonpasserine birds with mottled grayish-brown plumage and large eyes. feed on insects
peace lily;any of various plants of the genus spathiphyllum having a white or green spathe and a spite of fragrant flowers and often cultivated as an ornamental
partridgeberry;creeping woody plant of eastern north america with shiny evergreen leaves and scarlet berries
mononychus olecranus;75-million-year-old turkey-sized long-legged fossil found in the gobi desert of mongolia having birdlike fused wrist bones and keeled breastbone and a long tail resembling a dinosaur's. short 3-inch-long forelimbs end in a single claw instead of wings. classification as bird or dinosaur is in dispute
wildebeest;large african antelope having a head with horns like an ox and a long tufted tail
thalarctos maritimus;white bear of arctic regions
true toad;tailless amphibian similar to a frog but more terrestrial and having drier warty skin
solo man;early man of late pleistocene. skull resembles that of neanderthal man but with smaller cranial capacity. found in java
cherimoya;small tropical american tree bearing round or oblong soft-fleshed fruit
southern harebell;bellflower of southeastern united states (maryland to georgia) having pale blue flowers
beast of burden;an animal such as a donkey or ox or elephant used for transporting loads or doing other heavy work
american hop;native american plant sometimes confused with the european hop
mexican fire plant;poinsettia of united states and eastern mexico. often confused with euphoria heterophylla
hungarian partridge;common european partridge
garden webworm;a variety of webworm
momordica balsamina;a tropical old world flowering vine with red or orange warty fruit
ziziphus lotus;shrubby deciduous tree of the mediterranean region
popinjay;archaic
babiroussa;indonesian wild pig with enormous curved canine teeth
jellyfish;large siphonophore having a bladderlike float and stinging tentacles
roof rat;common household pest originally from asia that has spread worldwide
flashlight fish;fish having a luminous organ beneath eye. of warm waters of the western pacific and puerto rico
lilium pardalinum;lily of western united states having orange-red to crimson maroon-spotted flowers
aquatic vertebrate;animal living wholly or chiefly in or on water
carolina spring beauty;similar to claytonia virginica but having usually pink flowers. eastern north america
coachwhip snake;a whipsnake of southern united states and mexico. tail resembles a braided whip
mutton snapper;similar to and often marketed as 'red snapper'
golden crested kinglet;european kinglet with a black-bordered yellow crown patch
euglenid;marine and freshwater green or colorless flagellate organism
oysterfish;a variety of toadfish
resurrection fern;fern growing on rocks or tree trunks and having fronds grayish and scurfy below. americas and south africa
toxicodendron vernicifluum;small asiatic tree yielding a toxic exudate from which lacquer is obtained
potentilla anserina;low-growing perennial having leaves silvery beneath. northern united states. europe. asia
emperor butterfly;large richly colored butterfly
european hackberry;bright green deciduous shade tree of southern europe
terebinth;a mediterranean tree yielding chian turpentine
slippers;european forage plant having claw-shaped pods introduced in america
blenny;small usually scaleless fishes with comb-like teeth living about rocky shores. territorial and hole-dwelling
cacomixle;raccoon-like omnivorous mammal of mexico and the southwestern united states having a long bushy tail with black and white rings
japanese beech;a beech native to japan having soft light yellowish-brown wood
cooper s hawk;bluish-gray north american hawk having a darting flight
western balsam poplar;cottonwood of western north america with dark green leaves shining above and rusty or silvery beneath
old field toadflax;north american plant having racemes of blue-violet flowers
loofah;the bathroom loofah
agathis dammara;native to the moluccas and philippines. a source of dammar resin
sulphur crested cockatoo;white cockatoo with a yellow erectile crest
scarlet maple;maple of eastern and central america. 5-lobed leaves scarlet and yellow in autumn
panamiga;low stingless nettle of central and south america having velvety brownish-green toothed leaves and clusters of small green flowers
minnow;very small european freshwater fish common in gravelly streams
serger;a sewing machine that overcasts the raw edges of a fabric with a v-shaped stitch
silver bell;any of various deciduous trees of the genus halesia having white bell-shaped flowers
urocyon cinereoargenteus;dark gray american fox. from central america through southern united states
little grebe;small european grebe
crane s bill;any of numerous geraniums of the genus geranium
tree lizard;a climbing lizard of western united states and northern mexico
alligator snapping turtle;large species having three ridges on its back. found in southeastern united states
loxostege similalis;a variety of webworm
purple boneset;north american herb having whorled leaves and terminal clusters of flowers spotted with purple
lynx pardina;of southern europe
gannet;large heavily built seabird with a long stout bill noted for its plunging dives for fish
primula vulgaris;plant of western and southern europe widely cultivated for its pale yellow flowers
bungarus fasciatus;sluggish krait banded with black and yellow
tiller;a farm implement used to break up the surface of the soil (for aeration and weed control and conservation of moisture)
alpine salamander;ovoviviparous amphibian of the alps
parnassia;any of various usually evergreen bog plants of the genus parnassia having broad smooth basal leaves and a single pale flower resembling a buttercup
phthirius pubis;infests the pubic region of the human body
shallon;small evergreen shrub of pacific coast of north america having edible dark purple grape-size berries
makaira nigricans;largest marlin. may reach 2000 pounds. found worldwide in warm seas
habenaria elegans;slender inland rein orchid similar to coastal rein orchid but with pale greenish-yellow flowers
white horse nettle;weedy nightshade with silvery foliage and violet or blue or white flowers. roundish berry widely used to curdle milk. central united states to south america
emmet;social insect living in organized colonies. characteristically the males and fertile queen have wings during breeding season. wingless sterile females are the workers
chub mackerel;small mackerel found nearly worldwide
clematis verticillaris;climber of northeastern north america having waxy purplish-blue flowers
knawe;widely distributed low-growing eurasian herb having narrow leaves and inconspicuous green flowers
spearfish;large long-jawed oceanic sport fishes. related to sailfishes and spearfishes. not completely cold-blooded i.e. able to warm their brains and eyes
macadamia nut tree;small australian tree with racemes of pink flowers. widely cultivated (especially in hawaii) for its sweet edible nuts
common lilac;large european lilac naturalized in north america having heart-shaped ovate leaves and large panicles of highly fragrant lilac or white flowers
rocket engine;a device containing its own propellant and driven by reaction propulsion
mold;a fungus that produces a superficial growth on various kinds of damp or decaying organic matter
mother in law plant;a evergreen plant with large showy dark green leaves. contains a poison that swells the tongue and throat hence the name
olfersia cervina;tropical american terrestrial fern with leathery lanceolate fronds. sometimes placed in genus polybotrya
pellitory of spain;small mediterranean plant containing a volatile oil once used to relieve toothache
procyon cancrivorus;south american raccoon
embothrium coccineum;grown for outstanding display of brilliant usually scarlet-crimson flowers. andes
sauropod;very large herbivorous dinosaur of the jurassic and cretaceous having a small head a long neck and tail and five-toed limbs. largest known land animal
cerastium arvense;densely tufted perennial chickweed of north temperate zone
water rat;common large eurasian vole
indian lotus;native to eastern asia. widely cultivated for its large pink or white flowers
spotted squeateague;weakfish of southern atlantic and gulf coasts of united states
barn spider;an orange and tan spider with darkly banded legs that spins an orb web daily. 'the barn spider was made famous in e. b. white's book 'charlotte's web''
true pine;a coniferous tree
common european dogwood;european deciduous shrub turning red in autumn having dull white flowers
linnaea borealis;creeping evergreen subshrub of the northern parts of europe and asia with delicate fragrant tubular bell-shaped usually pink flowers borne in pairs
dragonet;small often brightly colored scaleless marine bottom-dwellers. found in tropical and warm-temperate waters of europe and america
pulicaria dysenterica;hairy perennial eurasian herb with yellow daisylike flowers reputed to destroy or drive away fleas
nemophila aurita;straggling california annual herb with deep purple or violet flowers. sometimes placed in genus nemophila
lithophytic plant;plant that grows on rocks or stony soil and derives nourishment from the atmosphere
red cedar;large valuable arborvitae of northwestern united states
large tooth aspen;aspen with a narrow crown. eastern north america
symbion pandora;only known species of cycliophora. lives symbiotically attached to a lobster's lip by an adhesive disk and feeding by means of a hairy mouth ring. its complex life cycle includes asexual and sexual phases
greater prairie chicken;the most common variety of prairie chicken
truncocolumella citrina;a fungus with a round yellow to orange fruiting body that is found on the surface of the ground or partially buried. has a distinctive sterile column extending into the spore-bearing tissue
durion;tree of southeastern asia having edible oval fruit with a hard spiny rind
anuran;any of various tailless stout-bodied amphibians with long hind limbs for leaping. semiaquatic and terrestrial species
eryngium yuccifolium;coarse prickly perennial eryngo of united states thought to cure rattlesnake bite
stone crab;large edible crab of s coat of united states especially florida
cocker;a small breed with a wavy silky hair originally developed in england
evergreen millet;tall perennial grass that spreads by creeping rhizomes and is grown for fodder. naturalized in southern united states where it is a serious pest on cultivated land
magpie;long-tailed black-and-white bird that utters a chattering call
schizopetalon;a dainty south american annual having deeply pinnatifid leaves and racemes of fringed almond-scented purple-white flowers
cynomys ludovicianus;tail is black tipped
melon tree;tropical american shrub or small tree having huge deeply palmately cleft leaves and large oblong yellow fruit
john dory;european dory
episcia;any plant of the genus episcia. usually creeping and stoloniferous and of cascading habit. grown for their colorful foliage and flowers
convolvulus scammonia;twining plant of asia minor having cream to purple flowers and long thick roots yielding a cathartic resin
quail bush;spiny shrub with silvery-scurfy foliage of alkaline plains of southwestern united states and mexico
neuropteron;insect having biting mouthparts and four large membranous wings with netlike veins
tubercle bacillus;cause of tuberculosis
gyromitra brunnea;a lorchel with deep brownish red fertile part and white stalk
amsonia tabernaemontana;subshrubs of southeastern united states forming slow-growing clumps and having blue flowers in short terminal cymes
rockchuck;heavy-bodied yellowish-brown marmot of rocky areas of western north america
canistel tree;tropical tree of florida and west indies yielding edible fruit
phleum pratense;grass with long cylindrical spikes frown in northern united states and europe for hay
quince bush;small asian tree with pinkish flowers and pear-shaped fruit. widely cultivated
restharrow;eurasian plant having loose racemes of pink or purple flowers and spiny stems and tough roots
satin bird;of southeast australia. male is glossy violet blue. female is light gray-green
woolly manzanita;erect openly branched california shrub whose twigs are woolly when young
white berry yew;yew of southeastern china, differing from the old world yew in having white berries
crossopterygian;any fish of the order crossopterygii. most known only in fossil form
polypore;woody pore fungi. any fungus of the family polyporaceae or family boletaceae having the spore-bearing surface within tubes or pores. the fruiting bodies are usually woody at maturity and persistent
helenium autumnale;north american perennial with bright yellow late summer flowers flowers
gnu goat;large heavily built goat antelope of eastern himalayan area
indian elephant;asian elephant having smaller ears and tusks primarily in the male
christmasberry;spiny evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having spreading branches usually blue or mauve flowers and red berries
parvovirus;any of a group of viruses containing dna in an icosahedral protein shell and causing disease in dogs and cattle. not known to be associated with any human disease
vegetable marrow;any of various squash plants grown for their elongated fruit with smooth dark green skin and whitish flesh
coptis trifolia groenlandica;low-growing perennial of north america woodlands having trifoliate leaves and yellow rootstock and white flowers
pear tree;old world tree having sweet gritty-textured juicy fruit. widely cultivated in many varieties
hygrophorus kauffmanii;a fungus with a slightly viscid cap. cap and gills are reddish brown nd the stalk is gray
sanfoin;eurasian perennial herb having pale pink flowers and curved pods. naturalized in britain and north america grasslands on calcareous soils. important forage crop and source of honey in britain
tansy ragwort;widespread european weed having yellow daisylike flowers. sometimes an obnoxious weed and toxic to cattle if consumed in quantity
santa gertrudis;brahman-shorthorn crossbreed of red cattle hardy in hot regions
falco rusticolus;large and rare arctic falcon having white and dark color phases
kohleria;shrubby herb cultivated for their soft velvety foliage and showy scarlet flowers
press;a machine used for printing
rana goliath;largest living frog. up to a foot and weighing up to 10 lbs. africa
water caltrop;a variety of water_chestnut
tidy tips;california annual having flower heads with yellow rays tipped with white
platte river penstemon;erect plant with blue-violet flowers in rings near tips of stems. idaho to utah and wyoming
common comfrey;european herb having small white, pink or purple flowers. naturalized as a weed in north america
red osier dogwood;common north american shrub with reddish purple twigs and white flowers
grass;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
fritillary;butterfly with brownish wings marked with black and silver
mother in law s tongue;a evergreen plant with large showy dark green leaves. contains a poison that swells the tongue and throat hence the name
dalbergia latifolia;east indian tree having a useful dark purple wood
siberian elm;fast-growing shrubby asian tree naturalized in united states for shelter or ornament
yellow crowned night heron;north american night heron
yam;any of a number of tropical vines of the genus dioscorea many having edible tuberous roots
polyoma virus;a virus the can initiate various kinds of tumors in mice
rye ergot;a sclerotium or hardened mass of mycelium
fringilla coelebs;small european finch with a cheerful song
marrow squash;any of various squash plants grown for their elongated fruit with smooth dark green skin and whitish flesh
tangier peavine;north african annual resembling the sweet pea having showy but odorless flowers
poisonous nightshade;poisonous perennial old world vine having violet flowers and oval coral-red berries. widespread weed in north america
astropogon stellatus;found in west indies. lives in mantle cavity of a living conch
phytophthora citrophthora;causes brown rot gummosis in citrus fruits
arenaria interpres;common arctic turnstone that winters south to south america and australia
human t cell leukemia virus 1;retrovirus causing t-cell leukemia
mountain lion;large american feline resembling a lion
crampfish;any sluggish bottom-dwelling ray of the order torpediniformes having a rounded body and electric organs on each side of the head capable of emitting strong electric discharges
aegypiidae;in some classifications considered the family comprising the old world vultures which are more often included in the family accipitridae
fraxinus pennsylvanica subintegerrima;a variety of red ash having glossy branchlets and lower leaf surfaces
asplenium ruta muraria;small delicate spleenwort found on a steep slope (as a wall or cliff) of eurasia and north america
shoveler;freshwater duck of the northern hemisphere having a broad flat bill
copernicia prunifera;brazilian fan palm having an edible root. source of a useful leaf fiber and a brittle yellowish wax
peppermint;herb with downy leaves and small purple or white flowers that yields a pungent oil used as a flavoring
yellow pitcher plant;pitcher plant of southeastern united states having erect wide-mouth yellow trumpet-shaped pitchers with erect lids
liana;a woody climbing usually tropical plant
solomon s seal;any of several plants of the genus polygonatum having paired drooping yellowish-green flowers and a thick rootstock with scars shaped like solomon's seal
hadrosaurus;any of numerous large bipedal ornithischian dinosaurs having a horny duck-like bill and webbed feet. may have been partly aquatic
boston terrier;small pug-faced american terrier breed having a smooth brindle or black coat with white markings
inula helenium;tall coarse eurasian herb having daisylike yellow flowers with narrow petals whose rhizomatous roots are used medicinally
nettleleaf goosefoot;european annual with coarsely dentate leaves. widespread in united states and southern canada
man;any living or extinct member of the family hominidae
locust pod;long pod containing small beans and sweetish edible pulp. used as animal feed and source of a chocolate substitute
icterus spurius;the male is chestnut-and-black
aerides;any orchid of the genus aerides
consolida ambigua;commonly cultivated larkspur of southern europe having unbranched spikelike racemes of blue or sometimes purplish or pinkish flowers. sometime placed in genus delphinium
rosa spithamaea;low-growing bristly shrub of southern oregon and california with creeping rootstocks and usually corymbose flowers
pleurotus phosphoreus;red luminescent mushroom of europe
black snakeroot;north american bugbane found from main and ontario to wisconsin and south to georgia
arbutus;any of several evergreen shrubs of the genus arbutus of temperate europe and america
gnatcatcher;very small north and south american warblers
cave myotis;small bat of southwest united states that lives in caves etc.
canada lily;common lily of the eastern united states having nodding yellow or reddish flowers spotted with brown
acarine;mite or tick
javelina;dark gray peccary with an indistinct white collar. of semi desert areas of mexico and southwestern united states
sedge wren;small american wren inhabiting wet sedgy meadows
earthnut pea;european herb bearing small tubers used for food and in scotland to flavor whiskey
marmota caligata;large north american mountain marmot
rattlesnake orchid;any of various orchids of the genus pholidota having numerous white to brown flowers in wandlike spiraling racemes clothed in slightly inflated bracts and resembling a rattlesnake's tail
blue bugle;upright rhizomatous perennial with bright blue flowers. southern europe
burr marigold;any of several plants of the genus bidens having yellow flowers and prickly fruits that cling to fur and clothing
bullbat;mainly nocturnal north american goatsucker
amphiuma;aquatic eel-shaped salamander having two pairs of very small feet. of still muddy waters in the southern united states
roughleg;large hawk of the northern hemisphere that feeds chiefly on small rodents and is beneficial to farmers
archaeobacteria;considered ancient life forms that evolved separately from bacteria and blue-green algae
butter bean;bush bean plant cultivated especially in southern united states having small flat edible seeds
reptilian;any cold-blooded vertebrate of the class reptilia including tortoises turtles snakes lizards alligators crocodiles and extinct forms
red poll;hornless short-haired breed of beef and dairy cattle
indian millet;sorghums of dry regions of asia and north africa
polypodium aureum;tropical american fern with brown scaly rhizomes cultivated for its large deeply lobed deep bluish-green fronds. sometimes placed in genus polypodium
snow mushroom;popular in china and japan and taiwan. gelatinous mushrooms. most are dried
killer bee;a strain of bees that originated in brazil in the 1950s as a cross between an aggressive african bee and a honeybee. retains most of the traits of the african bee. now spread as far north as texas
aythya americana;north american diving duck with a gray-and-black body and reddish-brown head
buteo lagopus;large hawk of the northern hemisphere that feeds chiefly on small rodents and is beneficial to farmers
codiaeum variegatum;grown in many varieties for their brightly colored foliage. widely cultivated as a houseplant
borecole;a hardy cabbage with coarse curly leaves that do not form a head
liquidambar styraciflua;a north american tree of the genus liquidambar having prickly spherical fruit clusters and fragrant sap
fragrant bedstraw;old world fragrant stoloniferous perennial having small white flowers and narrow leaves used as flavoring and in sachets. widely cultivated as a ground cover. in some classifications placed in genus asperula
micromeria chamissonis;trailing perennial evergreen herb of northwestern united states with small white flowers. used medicinally
bud brush;half-shrubby perennial valuable as sheep forage in the united states
guest;(computer science) any computer that is hooked up to a computer network
tamias striatus;small striped semiterrestrial eastern american squirrel with cheek pouches
banded krait;sluggish krait banded with black and yellow
doggy;informal terms
accipiter cooperii;bluish-gray north american hawk having a darting flight
maikoa;south american plant cultivated for its large fragrant trumpet-shaped flowers
tercelet;male hawk esp. male peregrine or gyrfalcon
jigsaw;narrow-bladed fine-toothed saw for cutting curved outlines
climbing hydrangea;deciduous climber with aerial roots having large flat flower heads
floating moss;free-floating aquatic ferns
candelilla;wax-coated shrub of northern mexico and southwestern united states
tortricid;any of numerous small moths having lightly fringed wings. larvae are leafrollers or live in fruits and galls
turdus pilaris;medium-sized eurasian thrush seen chiefly in winter
pistia stratoites;pantropical floating plant forming a rosette of wedge-shaped leaves. a widespread weed in rivers and lakes
spirillum minus;a bacterium causing rat-bite fever
heliozoan;protozoa with spherical bodies and stiff radiating pseudopods
cultivated plant;plants that are grown for their produce
ixodes ricinus;parasitic on sheep and cattle as well as humans. can transmit looping ill in sheep (acute viral disease of the nervous system). a vector for lyme disease spirochete
pipilo erythrophthalmus;common towhee of eastern north america
meconopsis cambrica;widely cultivated west european plant with showy pale yellow flowers
cenchrus tribuloides;grass of the eastern united states and tropical america having spikelets enclosed in prickly burs
pye dog;ownerless half-wild mongrel dog common around asian villages especially india
sand rat;small nearly naked african mole rat of desert areas
canis latrans;small wolf native to western north america
heron;gray or white wading bird with long neck and long legs and (usually) long bill
connemara heath;low straggling evergreen shrub of western europe represented by several varieties with flowers from white to rose-purple
white camas;plant of eastern and central north america having creamy white flowers tinged with brown or purple. poisonous especially to grazing animals
virgilia capensis;tree with odd-pinnate leaves and racemes of fragrant pink to purple flowers
puffer;any of numerous marine fishes whose elongated spiny body can inflate itself with water or air to form a globe. several species contain a potent nerve poison. closely related to spiny puffers
dalmatian pyrethrum;white-flowered pyrethrum of balkan area whose pinnate leaves are white and silky-hairy below. source of an insecticide. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
acinonyx jubatus;long-legged spotted cat of africa and southwestern asia having nonretractile claws. the swiftest mammal. can be trained to run down game
borrelia;cause of e.g. european and african relapsing fever
cassia augustifolia;erect shrub having racemes of tawny yellow flowers. the dried leaves are used medicinally as a cathartic. sometimes placed in genus cassia
long tailed weasel;the common american weasel distinguished by large size and black-tipped tail
river shad;shad that spawns in streams of the mississippi drainage. very similar to alosa_sapidissima
fiddleneck;hairy annual of california to mexico with crowded cymes of small blue to lilac or mauve flowers
arum;any plant of the family araceae. have small flowers massed on a spadix surrounded by a large spathe
black fly;small blackish stout-bodied biting fly having aquatic larvae. sucks the blood of birds as well as humans and other mammals
line printer;an output device on a computer that prints a whole line of characters at a time
atticus atlas;giant saturniid moth widespread in asia. sometimes cultured for silk
brittany spaniel;tall active short-tailed french breed of bird dog having a usually smooth orange- or liver-and-white coat
needle rush;fine-leaved aquatic spike rush. popular as aerator for aquariums
centaurium minus;common european glabrous annual centaury with flowers in dense cymes
reed mace;tall marsh plant with pokerlike seed heads that explode when mature shedding large quantities of down. its long flat leaves are used for making mats and chair seats. of north america, europe, asia and north africa
false tamarisk;eurasian shrub resembling the tamarisk
regulus satrata;american golden-crested kinglet
prunus subcordata;shrub of united states pacific coast bearing small red insipid fruit
yerba mansa;stonoliferous herb of southwestern united states and mexico having a pungent rootstock and small spicate flowers with white bracts suggesting an anemone
nighthawk;mainly nocturnal north american goatsucker
sanguinaria canadensis;perennial woodland native of north america having a red root and red sap and bearing a solitary lobed leave and white flower in early spring and having acrid emetic properties. rootstock used as a stimulant and expectorant
saponaria vaccaria;european annual with pale rose-colored flowers. cultivated flower or self-sown grainfield weed. introduced in north america. sometimes classified as a soapwort
quercus velutina;medium to large deciduous timber tree of the eastern united states and southeastern canada having dark outer bark and yellow inner bark used for tanning. broad 5-lobed leaves are bristle-tipped
moneron;organisms that typically reproduce by asexual budding or fission and whose nutritional mode is absorption or photosynthesis or chemosynthesis
mola;among the largest bony fish. pelagic fish having an oval compressed body with high dorsal and anal fins and caudal fin reduced to a rudder-like lobe. worldwide in warm waters
duckbill;small densely furred aquatic monotreme of australia and tasmania having a broad bill and tail and webbed feet. only species in the family ornithorhynchidae
mycobacterium leprae;cause of leprosy
cinnamomum camphora;large evergreen tree of warm regions whose aromatic wood yields camphor
tooth fungus;a fungus of the family hydnaceae
field balm;trailing european aromatic plant of the mint family having rounded leaves and small purplish flowers often grown in hanging baskets. naturalized in north america. sometimes placed in genus nepeta
sow bug;terrestrial isopod having an oval segmented body (a shape like a sow)
southern spadefoot;of the united states southwest
cayman;alligator-like reptile of central and south america having a more heavily armored belly
european bean;old world upright plant grown especially for its large flat edible seeds but also as fodder
leaf miner;any of various small moths or dipterous flies whose larvae burrow into and feed on leaf tissue esp. of the family gracilariidae
pond scum;free-floating freshwater green algae
campanula glomerata;bellflower of europe to temperate asia having dense spikes of violet-blue to white flowers
asp viper;of southern europe. similar to but smaller than the adder
labyrinthodont;an amphibian of the superorder labyrinthodontia
lucy;incomplete skeleton of female found in eastern ethiopia in 1974
juncus inflexus;tall rush of temperate regions
musa textilis;philippine plant having leafstalks that yield manila hemp used for rope and paper etc
adult;any mature animal
geum urbanum;hairy eurasian plant with small yellow flowers and an astringent root formerly used medicinally
bushman s poison;evergreen shrub or tree of south africa
anchovy pear tree;west indian tree bearing edible mangolike fruit
triostium perfoliatum;coarse weedy american perennial herb with large usually perfoliate leaves and purple or dull red flowers
stag s garlic;pungent old world wild onion
zebra orchid;orchid with red-tinged linear leaves and panicle of purple-marked pale-yellow flowers with deep red or purple lip. southwestern australia
pagellus centrodontus;food fish of european coastal waters
mako shark;powerful mackerel shark of the atlantic and pacific
epiphyte;plant that derives moisture and nutrients from the air and rain. usually grows on another plant but not parasitic on it
marsh hen;any of various small aquatic birds of the genus gallinula distinguished from rails by a frontal shield and a resemblance to domestic hens
treponema;cause of e.g. syphilis and yaws
dog day cicada;its distinctive song is heard during july and august
hibiscus mutabilis;chinese shrub or small tree having white or pink flowers becoming deep red at night. widely cultivated. naturalized in southeastern united states
gymnopilus validipes;a poisonous fungus with a dry cap and a cortina that does not leave much of a ring on the robust stalk
vireo solitarius;of eastern north america having a bluish-gray head and mostly green body
loosestrife;any of various herbs and subshrubs of the genus lysimachia
harpy;large black-and-white crested eagle of tropical america
scutigerella immaculata;minute arthropod often infesting the underground parts of truck-garden and greenhouse crops
siamese;a slender short-haired blue-eyed breed of cat having a pale coat with dark ears paws face and tail tip
knob celery;grown for its thickened edible aromatic root
psychotria capensis;south african evergreen having hard tough wood
ice cream bean;ornamental evergreen tree with masses of white flowers. tropical and subtropical america
plasmodium vivax;parasitic protozoan of the genus plasmodium that causes malaria in humans
lycium halimifolium;deciduous erect or spreading shrub with spiny branches and violet-purple flowers followed by orange-red berries. southeastern europe to china
mierkat;south african mongoose-like viverrine having a face like a lemur and only four toes
shortleaf yellow pine;large pine of southrn united states having short needles in bunches of 2-3 and red-brown bark when mature
psychodid;a fly of the family psychodidae
old world scops owl;european scops owl
eider;duck of the northern hemisphere much valued for the fine soft down of the females
dracocephalum parviflorum;american herb having sharply serrate lanceolate leaves and spikes of double-lipped blue to violet flowers
satureja calamintha officinalis;mint-scented perennial of central and southern europe
little chief hare;north american pika
hexalectris warnockii;orchid with slender nearly leafless reddish-brown stems with loose racemes of reddish-brown flowers. of open brushy woods of southeastern arizona and central texas
tiger cub;a young tiger
taxus floridana;small bushy yew of northern florida having spreading branches and very narrow leaves
perognathus flavus;small pale yellowish soft-furred rodent of southwestern united states and mexico
dead nettle;a plants of the genus pilea having drooping green flower clusters and smooth translucent stems and leaves
sand blackberry;stiff shrubby blackberry of the eastern united states (connecticut to florida)
nephthytis afzelii;tropical rhizomatous plant cultivated as an ornamental for its large sagittate leaves
prairie trefoil;north american annual with red or rose-colored flowers
heteropterous insect;true bugs: insects whose forewings are membranous but have leathery tips
sandy mushroom;an edible agaric that fruits in great clusters (especially in sandy soil under cottonwood trees)
mugil curema;silvery mullet of atlantic and pacific coasts
turkey oak;small slow-growing deciduous shrubby tree of dry sandy barrens of southeastern united states having leaves with bristle-tipped lobes resembling turkey's toes
longanberry;tree of southeastern asia to australia grown primarily for its sweet translucent-fleshed edible fruit resembling litchi nuts. sometimes placed in genera euphoria or nephelium
aster ptarmicoides;tufted rigid north american perennial with loose clusters of white flowers
solanum wrightii;south american shrub or small tree widely cultivated in the tropics. not a true potato
wild oat;common in meadows and pastures
lined snake;secretive snake of city dumps and parks as well as prairies and open woods. feeds on earthworms. of central united states
bassariscus astutus;raccoon-like omnivorous mammal of mexico and the southwestern united states having a long bushy tail with black and white rings
california olive;pacific coast tree having aromatic foliage and small umbellate flowers followed by olivelike fruit. yields a hard tough wood
american water shrew;water shrew of north america
purging cassia;deciduous or semi-evergreen tree having scented sepia to yellow flowers in drooping racemes and pods whose pulp is used medicinally. tropical asia and central and south america and australia
cypripedia;a plant or flower of the genus cypripedium
aquilege;a plant of the genus aquilegia having irregular showy spurred flowers. north temperate regions especially mountains
thrinax parviflora;small palm of southern florida and west indies closely resembling the silvertop palmetto
prunus americana;wild plum trees of eastern and central north america having red-orange fruit with yellow flesh
rock sandwort;low perennial tufted plant of southeastern north america
basidiomycete;any of various fungi of the subdivision basidiomycota
oak tree;a deciduous tree of the genus quercus. has acorns and lobed leaves. 'great oaks grow from little acorns'
sambucus ebulus;dwarf herbaceous elder of europe having pink flowers and a nauseous odor
myrmecophile;an organism such as an insect that habitually shares the nest of a species of ant
tabby;female cat
water pimpernel;a white-flowered aquatic plant of the genus samolus
livelong;perennial northern temperate plant with toothed leaves and heads of small purplish-white flowers
chamaecyparis nootkatensis;tall evergreen of north american pacific coast often cultivated for ornament
weymouth pine;tall-growing pine of eastern north america. bark is brown with longitudinal fissures when mature. valued as a timber tree
geococcyx californianus;speedy largely terrestrial bird found from california and mexico to texas
pisum sativum macrocarpon;a variety of pea plant producing peas having soft thick edible pods lacking the fibrous inner lining of the common pea
chalcid wasp;any of various tiny insects whose larvae are parasites on eggs and larvae of other insects. many are beneficial in destroying injurious insects
sargassum fish;small fantastically formed and colored fishes found among masses of sargassum
calico aster;a variety of aster
thalassoma bifasciatum;small atlantic wrasse the male of which has a brilliant blue head
blue jay;common jay of eastern north america. bright blue with grey breast
hynerpeton bassetti;fossil amphibian of the devonian having well-developed forelimbs. found in pennsylvania
common rorqual;large flat-headed whalebone whale having deep furrows along the throat. of atlantic and pacific
ocean perch;large fish of northern atlantic coasts of america and europe
myna;tropical asian starlings
night blooming cereus;any of several night-blooming cacti of the genus selenicereus
wintera colorata;evergreen shrub or small tree whose foliage is conspicuously blotched with red and yellow and having small black fruits
bufo bufo;common toad of europe
ranunculus aquatilis;plant of ponds and slow streams having submerged and floating leaves and white flowers. europe and north america
barley;cultivated since prehistoric times. grown for forage and grain
snowball;plant having heads of fragrant white trumpet-shaped flowers. grows in sandy arid regions
southern arrow wood;deciduous shrub of eastern north america having blue-black berries and tough pliant wood formerly used to make arrows
lythrum salicaria;marsh herb with a long spike of purple flowers. originally of europe but now rampant in eastern united states
gorilla gorilla gorilla;a kind of gorilla
buffalo carpet beetle;a small black and red and white carpet beetle
thunder lizard;huge quadrupedal herbivorous dinosaur common in n. america in the late jurassic
shipworm;wormlike marine bivalve that bores into wooden piers and ships by means of drill-like shells
suslik;rather large central eurasian ground squirrel
death adder;venomous australian snake resembling an adder
abyssinian banana;large evergreen arborescent herb having huge paddle-shaped leaves and bearing inedible fruit that resemble bananas but edible young flower shoots. sometimes placed in genus musa
itch mite;whitish mites that attack the skin of humans and other animals. 'itch mites cause scabies'
pia;perennial herb of east india to polynesia and australia cultivated for its large edible root yielding otaheite arrowroot starch
carpocapsa pomonella;small moth whose larvae live in apples and english walnuts
adenanthera pavonina;east indian tree with racemes of yellow-white flowers. cultivated as an ornamental
groundberry;creeping shrub of eastern north america having white bell-shaped flowers followed by spicy red berrylike fruit and shiny aromatic leaves that yield wintergreen oil
artocarpus communis;native to pacific islands and having edible fruit with a texture like bread
new zealand mountain pine;new zealand shrub
shrike;any of numerous old world birds having a strong hooked bill that feed on smaller animals
cheeseflower;erect or decumbent old world perennial with axillary clusters of rosy-purple flowers. introduced in united states
maidenhair;any of various small to large terrestrial ferns of the genus adiantum having delicate palmately branched fronds
cinchona cordifolia;colombian tree. source of cartagena bark (a cinchona bark)
asparagus pea;sprawling european annual having a 4-winged edible pod
weed;any plant that crowds out cultivated plants
jacquinia keyensis;west indian shrub or small tree having leathery saponaceous leaves and extremely hard wood
viper s grass;perennial south european herb having narrow entire leaves and solitary yellow flower heads and long black-skinned carrot-shaped edible roots
ixodes dentatus;usually does not bite humans. transmits lyme disease spirochete to cottontail rabbits and woodrats
tamarillo;south american arborescent shrub having pale pink blossoms followed by egg-shaped reddish-brown edible fruit somewhat resembling a tomato in flavor
living rock;highly succulent stemless clump-forming plants with gray-green leaves similar in texture to lumps of granite. south africa
xiphosurus polyphemus;large marine arthropod of the american atlantic coast having a domed horseshoe-shaped carapace and stiff pointed tail. a living fossil related to the wood louse
calendula;any of numerous chiefly annual herbs of the genus calendula widely cultivated for their yellow or orange flowers. often used for medicinal and culinary purposes
christmas flower;tropical american plant having poisonous milk and showy tapering usually scarlet petallike leaves surrounding small yellow flowers
grape hyacinth;any of various early flowering spring hyacinths native to eurasia having dense spikes of rounded blue flowers resembling bunches of small grapes
sweetbriar;eurasian rose with prickly stems and fragrant leaves and bright pink flowers followed by scarlet hips
halibut;marine food fish of north atlantic or north pacific. the largest flatfish and one of the largest teleost fishes
explorer s gentian;tufted sometimes sprawling perennial with blue flowers spotted with green. western north america
allionia incarnata;trailing plant having crowded clusters of 3 brilliant deep pink flowers resembling a single flower blooming near the ground. found in dry gravelly or sandy soil. southwestern united states and mexico
eupatorium purpureum;north american herb having whorled leaves and terminal clusters of flowers spotted with purple
doll s eyes;north american herb with white poisonous berries
downy ash;smallish american tree with velvety branchlets and lower leaf surfaces
bearded seal;medium-sized grayish to yellow seal with bristles each side of muzzle. of arctic ocean
screamer;gooselike aquatic bird of south america having a harsh trumpeting call
numenius borealis;new world curlew that breeds in northern north america
teaberry;creeping shrub of eastern north america having white bell-shaped flowers followed by spicy red berrylike fruit and shiny aromatic leaves that yield wintergreen oil
bream;any of numerous marine percoid fishes especially (but not exclusively) of the family sparidae
hound dog;any of several breeds of dog used for hunting typically having large drooping ears
oriental bush cherry;woody oriental plant with smooth unfurrowed red fruit grown especially for its white or pale pink blossoms
eucalyptus;a tree of the genus eucalyptus
clematis lasiantha;clematis of california
king of beasts;large gregarious predatory feline of africa and india having a tawny coat with a shaggy mane in the male
pulasan tree;east indian fruit tree bearing fruit similar to but sweeter than that of the rambutan
jumby tree;small tree of west indies and northeastern venezuela having large oblong slender-pointed leaflets and panicles of purple flowers. seeds are black or scarlet with black spots
ezo yama hagi;asian shrub having conspicuous racemose rose-purple flowers widely used as an ornamental and in erosion control and as a source of wild-bird feed
hairy darling pea;shrubby perennial of southern australia having downy or woolly stems and undersides of leaves and racemes of red to pink flowers
belgian griffon;breed of various very small compact wiry-coated dogs of belgian origin having a short bearded muzzle
orbignya cohune;tropical american feather palm whose large nuts yield valuable oil and a kind of vegetable ivory
bergamot orange;small tree with pear-shaped fruit whose oil is used in perfumery. italy
white cockle;bluish-green herb having sticky stems and clusters of large evening-opening white flowers with much-inflated calyx. sometimes placed in genus lychnis
cassia marilandica;north american perennial herb. leaves are used medicinally. sometimes placed in genus cassia
barbarea praecox;of southwestern europe. cultivated in florida
epitrochoidal engine;a four-stroke internal-combustion engine without reciprocating parts
giant silkworm;larva of a saturniid moth. spins a large amount of strong silk in constructing its cocoon
anchusa riparia;anchusa of southern africa having blue to red-purple flowers
catananche caerula;south european plant having dark-eyed flowers with flat blue rays
brazilwood;tropical tree with prickly trunk. its heavy red wood yields a red dye and is used for cabinetry
round headed leek;old world leek with a spherical bulb
ratibida columnaris;coneflower with flower heads resembling a mexican hat with a tall red-brown disk and drooping yellow or yellow and red-brown rays. great plains along base of rocky mountains
pipul;fig tree of india noted for great size and longevity. lacks the prop roots of the banyan
areca catechu;southeastern asian palm bearing betel nuts (scarlet or orange single-seeded fruit with a fibrous husk)
one flowered pyrola;delicate evergreen dwarf herb of north temperate regions having a solitary white terminal flower. sometimes placed in genus pyrola
mole;small velvety-furred burrowing mammal having small eyes and fossorial forefeet
old world oriole;mostly tropical songbird. the male is usually bright orange and black
black bamboo;small bamboo having thin green culms turning shining black
cockroach;any of numerous chiefly nocturnal insects. some are domestic pests
cypress tree;any of numerous evergreen conifers of the genus cupressus of north temperate regions having dark scalelike leaves and rounded cones
micrurus fulvius;ranges from central america to southeastern united states
flooded gum;any of several australian gum trees growing on moist or alluvial soil
virgin s bower;common climber of eastern north america that sprawls over other plants and bears numerous panicles of small creamy white flowers
fir tree;any of various evergreen trees of the genus abies. chiefly of upland areas
comatulid;free-swimming stalkless crinoid with ten feathery arms. found on muddy sea bottoms
dolichos lignosus;south african evergreen partly woody vine grown for its clusters of rosy purple flowers followed by edible pods like snap beans. also grown as green manure. sometimes placed in genus dolichos
forestiera neomexicana;spiny branching deciduous shrub of southwestern united states having clusters of insignificant yellow-white flowers appearing before leaves followed by attractive black berrylike fruits
nardo;australian clover fern
handloom;a loom powered by hand
dyer s rocket;european mignonette cultivated as a source of yellow dye. naturalized in north america
cnemidophorus tigris;active lizard having a network of dusky dark markings. of semiarid areas from oregon and idaho to baja california
chondrus crispus;dark purple edible seaweed of the atlantic coasts of europe and north america
indian chocolate;erect perennial of north temperate zone having pinnate leaves and few nodding flowers with brown-purple calyx and orange-pink petals
lacertid;old world terrestrial lizard
dasyurus viverrinus;carnivorous arboreal catlike marsupials of australia and tasmania
ungulate;any of a number of hoofed mammals superficially similar but not necessarily closely related taxonomically
cucurbita maxima turbaniformis;squash plants bearing hard-shelled fruit shaped somewhat like a turban with a rounded central portion protruding from the end opposite the stem
swamp red oak;large round-topped deciduous tree with spreading branches having narrow falcate leaves with deeply sinuate lobes and wood similar to that of northern red oaks. new jersey to illinois and southward
bugleweed;a mildly narcotic and astringent aromatic herb having small whitish flowers. eastern united states
rana catesbeiana;largest north american frog. highly aquatic with a deep-pitched voice
domestic llama;used in the andes as a beast of burden and source of wool. considered a domesticated variety of the guanaco
starwort;low-growing north temperate herb having small white star-shaped flowers. named for its alleged ability to ease sharp pains in the side
sens;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
northern holly fern;evergreen european fern widely cultivated
tabby;a cat with a gray or tawny coat mottled with black
angora goat;raised for its long silky hair which is the true mohair
barrel cactus;any cactus of the genus echinocactus. strongly ribbed and very spiny. southwestern united states to brazil
knotgrass;low-growing weedy grass with spikelets along the leaf stems
florence fennel;grown especially for its edible aromatic bulbous stem base
actinomyces;soil-inhabiting saprophytes and disease-producing plant and animal parasites
snow on the mountain;annual spurge of western united states having showy white-bracted flower clusters and very poisonous milk
boskop man;possible early homo sapiens represented by a cranium found in the transvaal. formerly considered a separate species
sea hare;naked marine gastropod having a soft body with reduced internal shell and two pairs of ear-like tentacles
giant kangaroo;very large grayish-brown australian kangaroo formerly abundant in open wooded areas
snowdrop windflower;eurasian herb with solitary nodding fragrant white flowers
jagua;tree of the west indies and northern south america bearing succulent edible orange-sized fruit
rauwolfia serpentina;east indian climbing shrub with twisted limbs and roots resembling serpents
helvella sulcata;a helvella with an irregularly convoluted cap that is dark brown when young and becomes dull gray with age. the lower surface of the cap is smooth and pale gray. the stalk is thick and deeply fluted
cervus canadensis;large north american deer with large much-branched antlers
cairina moschata;large crested wild duck of central and south america. widely domesticated
piping crow shrike;crow-sized black-and-white bird. a good mimic often caged
lookdown;similar to moonfish but with eyes high on the truncated forehead
buffalo;large shaggy-haired brown bison of north american plains
sticktight;parasitic on esp. the heads of chickens
beggar lice;any of various eurasian and north american plants having small prickly nutlets that stick to clothing
hercules  club;small deciduous clump-forming tree or shrub of eastern united states
ankylosaurus;having the back covered with thick bony plates. thought to have walked with a sprawling gait resembling a lizard's
botrychium lunaria;of america and eurasia and australia
flat topped white aster;a variety of aster
aurochs;european bison having a smaller and higher head than the north american bison
american angelica tree;small deciduous clump-forming tree or shrub of eastern united states
texas tortoise;close relative to the desert tortoise. may be reclassified as a member of genus xerobates
chickpea plant;asiatic herb cultivated for its short pods with one or two edible seeds
snakefish;tropical fishes with large mouths in lizard-like heads. found worldwide
black sumac;common nonpoisonous shrub of eastern north america with compound leaves and green paniculate flowers followed by red berries
ramjet;a simple type of jet engine. must be launched at high speed
acacia melanoxylon;tall australian acacia yielding highly valued black timber
cepphus grylle;north atlantic guillemot
rabbit bandicoot;bandicoot with leathery ears like a rabbit
swiss pine;large 5-needled european pine. yields cembra nuts and a resinous exudate
alumbloom;any of several herbs of the genus heuchera
narwhale;small arctic whale the male having a long spiral ivory tusk
hydromantes shastae;primarily a cave dweller in the mount shasta area
sieva bean;bush bean plant cultivated especially in southern united states having small flat edible seeds
asparagus asparagoides;fragile twining plant of south africa with bright green flattened stems and glossy foliage popular as a floral decoration
creeping windmill grass;perennial australian grass having numerous long spikes arranged like the vanes of a windmill
sapindus marginatus;deciduous tree of southwestern united states having pulpy fruit containing saponin
pigeon berry;tall coarse perennial american herb having small white flowers followed by blackish-red berries on long drooping racemes. young fleshy stems are edible. berries and root are poisonous
spurge nettle;a stinging herb of tropical america
adenota vardoni;an african antelope closely related to the waterbuck
black elder;common black-fruited shrub or small tree of europe and asia. fruit used for wines and jellies
milch cow;cattle that are reared for their milk
reaper binder;a machine that cuts grain and binds it in sheaves
black rockweed;common black rockweed used in preparing kelp and as manure
ulex europaeus;very spiny and dense evergreen shrub with fragrant golden-yellow flowers. common throughout western europe
rough bindweed;creeping or climbing evergreen having spiny zigzag stems with shiny leaves and racemes of pale-green flowers. canary islands to southern europe and ethiopia and india
black grama;especially of western coastal regions of north america
ulmus carpinifolia;european elm with lustrous smooth leaves used as an ornamental
gesneria;any plant of the genus gesneria
fraxinus ornus;southern mediterranean ash having fragrant white flowers in dense panicles and yielding manna
circus aeruginosus;old world harrier frequenting marshy regions
smooth alder;common shrub of the eastern united states with smooth bark
cricket frog;either of two frogs with a clicking call
purau;shrubby tree widely distributed along tropical shores. yields a light tough wood used for canoe outriggers and a fiber used for cordage and caulk. often cultivated for ornament
clustered bellflower;bellflower of europe to temperate asia having dense spikes of violet-blue to white flowers
parrot s bill;evergreen shrub with scarlet to white claw- or beak-like flowers. new zealand
allium cepa;bulbous plant having hollow leaves cultivated worldwide for its rounded edible bulb
sium sisarum;an asiatic herb cultivated in europe for its sweet edible tuberous root
glass snake;snakelike lizard of europe asia and north america with vestigial hind limbs and the ability to regenerate its long fragile tail
citrange tree;more aromatic and acidic than oranges
morus rubra;north american mulberry having dark purple edible fruit
lawson s cypress;large timber tree of western north america with trunk diameter to 12 feet and height to 200 feet
japanese carpet grass;lawn grass common in the philippines. grown also in united states
server;(computer science) a computer that provides client stations with access to files and printers as shared resources to a computer network
paint leaf;showy poinsettia found from southern united states to peru. often confused with euphoria cyathophora
american pennyroyal;erect hairy branching american herb having purple-blue flowers. yields an essential oil used as an insect repellent and sometimes in folk medicine
rainbow smelt;important marine and landlocked food fish of eastern north america and alaska
snow blower;a machine that removes snow by scooping it up and throwing it forcefully through a chute
viola conspersa;violet of eastern north america having pale violet to white flowers
head smut;smut fungus attacking heads of corn or sorghum and causing a covered smut
spermophile;any of various terrestrial burrowing rodents of old and new worlds. often destroy crops
flycatcher;large american birds that characteristically catch insects on the wing
anthozoan;sessile marine coelenterates including solitary and colonial polyps. the medusoid phase is entirely suppressed
noble cane;sugarcanes representing the highest development of the species. characterized by large soft-rinded juicy stalks and high sugar content
hazel mouse;a variety of dormouse
short spurred fragrant orchid;similar to gymnadenia conopsea but with smaller flowers on shorter stems and having much shorter spurs
majagua;erect forest tree of cuba and jamaica having variably hairy leaves and orange-yellow or orange-red flowers. yields a moderately dense timber for cabinetwork and gunstocks
menhaden;shad-like north american marine fishes used for fish meal and oil and fertilizer
onobrychis viciifolia;eurasian perennial herb having pale pink flowers and curved pods. naturalized in britain and north america grasslands on calcareous soils. important forage crop and source of honey in britain
excavator;a machine for excavating
california newt;newt that is similar to taricha granulosa in characteristics and habitat
pintado;large edible mackerel of temperate united states coastal atlantic waters
big cone douglas fir;douglas fir of california having cones 4-8 inches long
limenitis arthemis;north american butterfly with blue-black wings crossed by a broad white band
apogon maculatus;found in tropical atlantic coastal waters
tricholoma aurantium;an orange tan agaric whose gills become brown by maturity. has a strong odor and taste
juneberry holly;a holly shrub
solidago odora;goldenrod of eastern america (especially blue mountains of pennsylvania) having aromatic leaves from which a medicinal tea is made
man eater;large aggressive shark widespread in warm seas. known to attack humans
carcharodon carcharias;large aggressive shark widespread in warm seas. known to attack humans
sedum acre;mossy european creeping sedum with yellow flowers. widely introduced as a ground cover
dittany;eurasian perennial herb with white flowers that emit flammable vapor in hot weather
butter daisy;coarse grayish green annual yellow-flowered herb. southwestern united states to mexico
fer de lance;large extremely venomous pit viper of central and south america
mirror carp;domestic carp with some large large shining scales
gray alder;native to europe but introduced in america
butterfish;slippery scaleless food fish of north atlantic coastal waters
june bug;any of various large usually brown north american leaf-eating beetles common in late spring. the larvae feed on roots of grasses etc.
tectaria cicutaria;jamaican fern having round buttonlike bulbils
treehopper;small leaping insect that sucks juices of branches and twigs
argali;wild sheep of semidesert regions in central asia
atlantic moonfish;any of several silvery marine fishes with very flat bodies
scammonyroot;tropical american prostrate or climbing herbaceous perennial having an enormous starchy root. sometimes held to be source of the sweet potato
strawberry;any of various low perennial herbs with many runners and bearing white flowers followed by edible fruits having many small achenes scattered on the surface of an enlarged red pulpy berry
sugargerry;deciduous shade tree with small black berries. southern united states. yields soft yellowish wood
windmill;extracts usable energy from winds
virgilia oroboides;tree with odd-pinnate leaves and racemes of fragrant pink to purple flowers
indigo;deciduous subshrub of southeastern asia having pinnate leaves and clusters of red or purple flowers. a source of indigo dye
sphyraena barracuda;large (up to 6 ft) grayish-brown barracuda highly regarded as a food and sport fish. may be dangerous to swimmers
parus atricapillus;chickadee having a dark crown
aquilegia canadensis;columbine of eastern north america having long-spurred red flowers
salamander;any of various typically terrestrial amphibians that resemble lizards and that return to water only to breed
downy mildew;any of various fungi of the family peronosporaceae parasitic on e.g. grapes and potatoes and melons
purple velvet plant;javanese foliage plant grown for their handsome velvety leaves with violet-purple hairs
kentucky blue;valuable meadow and pasture grass in europe and especially central united states having tall stalks and slender bright green leaves. a chief constituent in lawn grass mixtures
tympanuchus cupido cupido;extinct prairie chicken
bignoniad;any woody plant of the family bignoniaceae
coast lily;orange-flowered lily of pacific coast of united states
golden everlasting;australian plant naturalized in spain having flowers of lemon yellow to deep gold. the choice everlasting of dried-flower lovers
entoloma lividum;a deadly poisonous agaric. a large cap that is first white (livid or lead-colored) and then turns yellowish or tan
iceland moss;lichen with branched flattened partly erect thallus that grows in mountainous and arctic regions. used as a medicine or food for humans and livestock. a source of glycerol
mammea americana;tropical american tree having edible fruit with a leathery rind
serranus subligarius;found in warm shallow waters of western atlantic
orange balsam;north american annual plant with usually yellow or orange flowers. grows chiefly on wet rather acid soil
pepper bush;shrub of eastern and southern coastal united states having beautiful racemes of spice-scented white flowers
jersey knapweed;a variety of knapweed
lactuca sativa crispa;distinguished by leaves having curled or incised leaves forming a loose rosette that does not develop into a compact head
sawing machine;a power tool for cutting wood
rock bass;game and food fish of upper mississippi and great lakes
psychopsis papilio;orchid of south america and trinidad having large yellow and reddish-brown flowers. sometimes placed in genus oncidium
physic nut;small tropical american tree yielding purple dye and a tanning extract and bearing physic nuts containing a purgative oil that is poisonous in large quantities
tichodrome;crimson-and-gray songbird that inhabits town walls and mountain cliffs of southern eurasia and northern africa
soupfin;pacific shark valued for its fins (used by chinese in soup) and liver (rich in vitamin a)
spiny anteater;new guinea echidnas
cistus ladanifer;shrub having white flowers and viscid stems and leaves yielding a fragrant oleoresin used in perfumes especially as a fixative
bitter floom;pink-flowered marsh plant of the eastern united states
gaylussacia baccata;low shrub of the eastern united states bearing shiny black edible fruit. best known of the huckleberries
aurochs;large recently extinct long-horned european wild ox. considered one of the ancestors of domestic cattle
oreortyx picta palmeri;california partridge. slightly larger than the california quail
melospiza melodia;small songbird common in north america
staggerbush;deciduous shrub of coastal plain of the eastern united states having nodding pinkish-white flowers. poisonous to stock
endospore forming bacteria;a group of true bacteria
leptinotarsa decemlineata;black-and-yellow beetle that feeds in adult and larval stages on potato leaves. originally of eastern rocky mountains. now worldwide
garden pea plant;plant producing peas usually eaten fresh rather than dried
ageratina altissima;american herb having flat-topped clusters of small white flower heads. reputedly a cause of trembles and milksickness. sometimes placed in genus eupatorium
silverleaf nightshade;weedy nightshade with silvery foliage and violet or blue or white flowers. roundish berry widely used to curdle milk. central united states to south america
petroselinum crispum neapolitanum;a variety of parsley having flat leaves
cyclostome;primitive aquatic vertebrate
oncidium;any orchid of the genus oncidium: characterized by slender branching sprays of small yellow and brown flowers. often grown as houseplants
queensland bottletree;large tree of queensland australia having cream-colored flowers blotched with red inside. sometimes placed in genus sterculia
hedgehog;relatively large rodents with sharp erectile bristles mingled with the fur
bolete;any fungus of the family boletaceae
chronoperates paradoxus;shrew-sized protomammal from the alberta canada region. of about 55 million years ago (much more recent than other mammal-like reptiles)
oncidium papilio kramerianum;orchid of south and central america having flowers similar to but smaller than psychopsis papilio. sometimes placed in genus oncidium
false lily of the valley;small two-leaved herb of the northern united states and parts of canada having racemes of small fragrant white flowers
false mitrewort;stoloniferous white-flowered spring-blooming woodland plant
butterfly orchid;any orchid of the genus oncidium: characterized by slender branching sprays of small yellow and brown flowers. often grown as houseplants
hairy golden aster;hairy perennial with yellow flower heads in branched clusters. found almost everywhere in dry places from canada to west central and western united states. sometimes placed in genus chrysopsis
cola acuminata;tree bearing large brown nuts containing e.g. caffeine. source of cola extract
thysanopter;an insect of the order thysanoptera
japanese leaf;erect or partially climbing herb having large green or variegated leaves
lactuca sativa;annual or perennial garden plant having succulent leaves used in salads. widely grown
bull pine;common and widely distributed tall timber pine of western north america having dark green needles in bunches of 2 to 5 and thick bark with dark brown plates when mature
rat snake;any of various nonvenomous rodent-eating snakes of north america and asia
privet andromeda;deciduous much-branched shrub with dense downy panicles of small bell-shaped white flowers
gazania;any plant of the genus gazania valued for their showy daisy flowers
pueraria lobata;fast-growing east asian vine having hairy trifoliate leaves and racemes of purple flowers followed by long many-seed hairy pods and tuberous starchy roots. grown for fodder and forage and root starch. widespread in the southern united states
garland crab;medium-sized tree of the eastern united states having pink blossoms and small yellow fruit
zinnia;any of various plants of the genus zinnia cultivated for their variously and brightly colored flower heads
pyrrhula pyrrhula;common european finch mostly black and white with red throat and breast
desmodium gyrans;erect tropical asian shrub whose small lateral leaflets rotate on their axes and jerk up and down under the influence of sunshine
fenugreek;annual herb or southern europe and eastern asia having off-white flowers and aromatic seeds used medicinally and in curry
crazy weed;any of several leguminous plants of western north america causing locoism in livestock
green gram;erect bushy annual widely cultivated in warm regions of india and indonesia and united states for forage and especially its edible seeds. chief source of bean sprouts used in chinese cookery. sometimes plaaaced in genus phaseolus
hieracium praealtum;european hawkweed introduced into northeastern united states. locally troublesome weeds
devil s claw;annual of southern united states to mexico having large whitish or yellowish flowers mottled with purple and a long curving beak
shasta daisy;hybrid garden flower derived from chrysanthemum maximum and chrysanthemum lacustre having large white flower heads resembling oxeye daisies. often placed in the genus chrysanthemum
lagerstroemia indica;ornamental e. indian shrub commonly planted in southern united states
deathwatch;minute wingless psocopterous insects injurious to books and papers
gallfly;small solitary wasp that produces galls on oaks and other plants
rose colored starling;glossy black bird with pink back and abdomen. chiefly asian
soyabean;a source of oil. used for forage and soil improvement and as food
oceanic bird;bird of the open seas
black carpet beetle;a solid black carpet beetle
pere david s deer;large chinese deer surviving only in domesticated herds
woody nightshade;poisonous perennial old world vine having violet flowers and oval coral-red berries. widespread weed in north america
areca;any of several tall tropical palms native to southeastern asia having egg-shaped nuts
stokes;erect perennial of southeastern united states having large heads of usually blue flowers
possum;nocturnal arboreal marsupial having a naked prehensile tail found from southern north america to northern south america
verbascum lychnitis;densely hairy eurasian herb with racemose white flowers. naturalized in north america
lepas fascicularis;stalked barnacle that attaches to ship bottoms or floating timbers
syrian bear;yellowish-gray syrian brown bear
wisconsin weeping willow;hybrid willow usually not strongly weeping in habit
venus s flower basket;deep-water marine sponge having a cylindrical skeleton of intricate glassy latticework. east indian and east asian coast
gelechiid moth;small slender-winged moths whose larvae are agricultural pests
croo monkey;monkey of southeast asia, borneo and the philippines
long pepper;plant bearing very hot and finely tapering long peppers. usually red
prince s plume;tall showy tropical american annual having hairy stems and long spikes of usually red flowers above leaves deeply flushed with purple. seeds often used as cereal
samoyed;siberian breed of white or cream dog of the spitz family
chestnut tree;any of several attractive deciduous trees yellow-brown in autumn. yield a hard wood and edible nuts in a prickly bur
may lily;low-growing perennial plant having usually two large oblong lanceolate leaves and a raceme of small fragrant nodding bell-shaped flowers followed by scarlet berries
ephedra;jointed and nearly leafless desert shrub having reduced scalelike leaves and reddish fleshy seeds
jesuits;a variety of water_chestnut
water lily;an aquatic plant of the family nymphaeaceae
pinot;any of several purple or white wine grapes used especially for burgundies and champagnes
crawdad;small freshwater decapod crustacean that resembles a lobster
shetland;small sheepdog developed in the shetland islands and resembling a collie
seaside centaury;a variety of centaury found at the seaside
banana passion fruit;cultivated for fruit
southernwood;shrubby european wormwood naturalized in north america. sometimes used in brewing beer
eucalyptus rostrata;somewhat crooked red gum tree growing chiefly along rivers. has durable reddish lumber used in heavy construction
snail flower;perennial tropical american vine cultivated for its racemes of showy yellow and purple flowers having the corolla keel coiled like a snail shell. sometimes placed in genus phaseolus
common apricot;temperate zone tree bearing downy yellow to rosy fruits
gartner s bacillus;a form of salmonella that causes gastroenteritis in humans
velvet grass;tall european perennial grass having a velvety stem. naturalized in united states and used for forage
spiny headed worm;any of various worms living parasitically in intestines of vertebrates having a retractile proboscis covered with many hooked spines
tare;any of several weedy vetches grown for forage
golden seal;perennial herb of northeastern united states having a thick knotted yellow rootstock and large rounded leaves
barbu;found along western atlantic coast
abronia umbellata;prostrate herb having heads of deep pink to white flowers. found in coastal dunes from british columbia to baja california
enterolobium cyclocarpa;tropical south american tree having a wide-spreading crown of bipinnate leaves and coiled ear-shaped fruits. grown for shade and ornament as well as valuable timber
apple of peru;coarse south american herb grown for its blue-and-white flowers followed by a bladderlike fruit enclosing a dry berry
kowhai;shrub or small tree of new zealand and chile having pendulous racemes of tubular golden-yellow flowers. yields a hard strong wood
elegant cat s ears;small plant with slender bent stems bearing branched clusters of a few white star-shaped flowers with petals shaped like cat's ears. southeastern washington and northeastern oregon to montana
canada anemone;common summer-flowering woodland herb of labrador to colorado
kitembilla;maroon-purple gooseberry-like fruit of india having tart-sweet purple pulp used especially for preserves
daisy fleabane;widely naturalized white-flowered north american herb
cynancum;any of various mostly giant tropical lianas of africa and madagascar having greenish or purple flowers and long smooth pods. roots formerly used as an emetic
schistosome;flatworms parasitic in the blood vessels of mammals
wild liquorice;european perennial
horseshoe whipsnake;slender fast-moving eurasian snake
peyote;a small spineless globe-shaped cactus. source of mescal buttons
corylus avellana grandis;small nut-bearing tree much grown in europe
alosa chrysocloris;shad that spawns in streams of the mississippi drainage. very similar to alosa_sapidissima
crow blackbird;long-tailed american blackbird having iridescent black plumage
phoebe;small dun-colored north american flycatcher
spanish broom;erect shrub of southwestern europe having racemes of golden yellow flowers
chufa;european sedge having small edible nutlike tubers
pintail;long-necked river duck of the old and new worlds having elongated central tail feathers
warragal;australian wild horse
cockspur hawthorn;eastern united states hawthorn with long straight thorns
baby blue eyes;delicate california annual having blue flowers marked with dark spots
bobolink;migratory american songbird
priacanthus arenatus;brightly colored carnivorous fish of western atlantic and west indies waters
solidago canadensis;large north american goldenrod having showy clusters of yellow flowers on arching branches. often a weed
odocoileus hemionus;long-eared deer of western north america with two-pronged antlers
grevy s zebra;zebra with less continuous stripes
methanogen;archaebacteria found in anaerobic environments such as animal intestinal tracts or sediments or sewage and capable of producing methane. a source of natural gas
verticillium;a fungus of the genus verticillium
sticky aster;wild aster having leafy stems and flower heads with narrow bright reddish-lavender or purple rays. western colorado to arizona
myxine glutinosa;typical hagfish
grama grass;pasture grass of plains of south america and western north america
reciprocating engine;an engine in which the crankshaft is turned by pistons moving up and down in cylinders
scrub bird;small fast-running australian bird resembling a wren and frequenting brush or scrub
agua;largest known toad species. native to central america. valuable destroyer of insect pests
coco palm;tall palm tree bearing coconuts as fruits. widely planted throughout the tropics
bee balm;bushy perennial old world mint having small white or yellowish flowers and fragrant lemon-flavored leaves. a garden escapee in northern europe and north america
pecopteris;carboniferous fossil fern characterized by a regular arrangement of the leaflets resembling a comb
turkey oak;small semi-evergreen shrubby tree of southeastern united states having hairy young branchlets and leaves narrowing to a slender bristly point
fringe toed lizard;with long pointed scales around toes. of deserts of united states and mexico
balsam fir;medium-sized fir of northeastern north america. leaves smell of balsam when crushed. much used for pulpwood and christmas trees
linnaea borealis americana;similar to the twinflower of northern europe and asia
crested swift;birds of southeast asia and east indies differing from true swifts in having upright crests and nesting in trees
dragonfly;slender-bodied non-stinging insect having iridescent wings that are outspread at rest. adults and nymphs feed on mosquitoes etc.
manilkara zapota;large tropical american evergreen yielding chicle gum and edible fruit. sometimes placed in genus achras
boxwood;evergreen shrubs or small trees
piper cubeba;tropical southeast asian shrubby vine bearing spicy berrylike fruits
litchi tree;chinese tree cultivated especially in philippines and india for its edible fruit. sometimes placed in genus nephelium
false saber toothed tiger;north american cat of the miocene and pliocene. much earlier and less specialized than members of the genus smiledon
hedysarum boreale;perennial of western united states having racemes of pink to purple flowers followed by flat pods that separate into nearly orbicular joints
capparis cynophallophora;shrub of southern florida to west indies
dusky shark;relatively slender blue-gray shark. nearly worldwide in tropical and temperate waters
woolly thistle;thistle of western north america having white woolly leaves
mangosteen;east indian tree with thick leathery leaves and edible fruit
mallee;any of several low-growing australian eucalypts
wild ginger;low-growing perennial herb with pungent gingery leaves and rhizomes
baleen whale;whale with plates of whalebone along the upper jaw for filtering plankton from the water
eucalypt;a tree of the genus eucalyptus
brocket;small south american deer with unbranched antlers
may bug;any of various large european beetles destructive to vegetation as both larvae and adult
quercus nuttalli;similar to the pin oak. grows in damp sites in mississippi river basin
cape primrose;any of various african plants of the genus streptocarpus widely cultivated especially as houseplants for their showy blue or purple primroselike flowers
boxer;a breed of stocky medium-sized short-haired dog with a brindled coat and square-jawed muzzle developed in germany
broomcorn millet;extensively cultivated in europe and asia for its grain and in united states sometimes for forage
lathyrus japonicus;wild pea of seashores of north temperate zone having tough roots and purple flowers and useful as a sand binder
stellaria media;a common low-growing annual garden weed with small white flowers. cosmopolitan. so-called because it is eaten by chickens
broad leaved twayblade;small orchid with two elliptic leaves and a slender raceme of small green flowers. western north america
white mulberry;asiatic mulberry with white to pale red fruit. leaves used to feed silkworms
pseudoscorpion;small nonvenomous arachnid resembling a tailless scorpion
cystopteris bulbifera;north american fern often bearing bulbils on the leaflets
potato fern;large australasian evergreen fern with an edible rhizome sometimes used as a vegetable by indigenous people
phaseolus acutifolius latifolius;twining plant of southwestern united states and mexico having roundish white or yellow or brown or black beans
heartleaf manzanita;erect california shrub having leaves with heart-shaped lobes at the base
stinking bean trefoil;shrub with trifoliate leaves and yellow flowers followed by backward curving seed pods. leaves foetid when crushed
wall rocket;yellow-flowered european plant that grows on old walls and in waste places. an adventive weed in north america
dead animal;an animal that is no longer alive
big marigold;a stout branching annual with large yellow to orange flower heads. mexico and central america
lancet fish;large elongate scaleless oceanic fishes with sharp teeth and a long sail-like dorsal fin
obechi;large west african tree having large palmately lobed leaves and axillary cymose panicles of small white flowers and one-winged seeds. yields soft white to pale yellow wood
eichhornia spesiosa;a tropical floating aquatic plant having spikes of large blue flowers. troublesome in clogging waterways especially in southern united states
night blooming cereus;any of several cacti of the genus cereus
cusk;large edible marine fish of northern coastal waters. related to cod
shingle oak;small deciduous tree of eastern and central united states having shining laurel-like leaves. wood used in western states for shingles
mayfish;black-barred fish of bays and coastal marshes of united states atlantic and gulf coasts
oregon fir;lofty douglas fir of northwestern north america having short needles and egg-shaped cones
downy wood mint;a variety of wood mint
rattle weed;much-branched erect herb with bright yellow flowers. distributed from massachusetts to florida
botulinus;anaerobic bacterium producing botulin the toxin that causes botulism
tropidoclonion lineatum;secretive snake of city dumps and parks as well as prairies and open woods. feeds on earthworms. of central united states
aristolochia durior;hardy deciduous vine having large leaves and flowers with the calyx tube curved like the bowl of a pipe
blue bull;large indian antelope. male is blue-grey with white markings. female is brownish with no horns
sassafras tree;yellowwood tree with brittle wood and aromatic leaves and bark. source of sassafras oil. widely distributed in eastern north america
grevillea striata;tree yielding hard heavy reddish wood
little brown myotis;the small common north american bat. widely distributed
lobe finned fish;any fish of the order crossopterygii. most known only in fossil form
cabassous;naked-tailed armadillo of tropical south america
big brown bat;rather large north american brown bat. widely distributed
horned pout;catfish common in eastern united states
chalcid fly;any of various tiny insects whose larvae are parasites on eggs and larvae of other insects. many are beneficial in destroying injurious insects
cassin s kingbird;a kingbird seen in the southwestern united states. largely gray with a yellow abdomen
jamberry;mexican annual naturalized in eastern north america having yellow to purple edible fruit resembling small tomatoes
iris persica;bulbous iris native to asia minor cultivated for its pale lilac-colored flowers
spilogale putorius;small skunk with a marbled black and white coat. of united states and mexico
carpet loom;a loom for weaving carpeting
currant bush;any of various deciduous shrubs of the genus ribes bearing currants
campyloneurum augustifolium;fern with shorter and narrower leaves than florida strap fern. florida to west indies and mexico and south to argentina
platylobium formosum;evergreen shrub having almost heart-shaped foliage and bright yellow pealike flowers followed by flat pods with flat wings. australia and tasmania
orthotomus sutorius;tropical asian warbler that stitches leaves together to form and conceal its nest
australian sword lily;sedgelike spring-flowering herb having clustered flowers covered with woolly hairs. australia
shellfish;invertebrate having a soft unsegmented body usually enclosed in a shell
old woman;herb with grayish leaves found along the east coast of north america. used as an ornamental plant
cabassous unicinctus;naked-tailed armadillo of tropical south america
tabulator;a calculator that keeps a record of the number of times something happens
panther;a large spotted feline of tropical america similar to the leopard. in some classifications considered a member of the genus felis
leatherleaf saxifrage;plant with basal leathery elliptic leaves and erect leafless flower stalks each bearing a dense roundish cluster of tiny white flowers. moist places of northwestern north america to oregon and idaho
acanthopterygian;a teleost fish with fins that are supported by sharp inflexible rays
zebrawood;any of various trees or shrubs having mottled or striped wood
long pepper;slender tropical climber of east himalaya
perpetuity;the property of being perpetual (seemingly ceaseless)
snakebird;fish-eating bird of warm inland waters having a long flexible neck and slender sharp-pointed bill
kitty;informal terms
malope trifida;western mediterranean annual having deep purple-red flowers subtended by 3 large cordate bracts
ganoid;primitive fishes having thick bony scales with a shiny covering
smut fungus;any fungus of the order usrilaginales
rock lobster;large edible marine crustacean having a spiny carapace but lacking the large pincers of true lobsters
thelypteris dryopteris;bright blue-green fern widely distributed especially in damp acid woodlands of temperate northern hemisphere
kalmia angustifolia;north american dwarf shrub resembling mountain laurel but having narrower leaves and small red flowers. poisonous to young stock
romaine lettuce;lettuce with long dark-green spoon-shaped leaves
yellow lady s slipper;maroon to purple-brown orchid with yellow lip. europe, north america and japan
psidium littorale longipes;small tropical shrubby tree bearing deep red oval fruit
west indian jasmine;tall sparingly branched conical tree having large fragrant yellow flowers with white centers
hart s tongue fern;eurasian fern with simple lanceolate fronds
satureja grandiflora;aromatic herb with large pink flowers. southern and southeastern europe. anatolia. northern iran
jasminum sambac;east indian evergreen vine cultivated for its profuse fragrant white flowers
elephant bird;huge (to 9 ft.) extinct flightless bird of madagascar
smilo;perennial mountain rice native to mediterranean region and introduced into north america
squaw root;tall herb of eastern north america and asia having blue berrylike fruit and a thick knotty rootstock formerly used medicinally
naples garlic;european onion with white flowers
heifer;young cow
polystichum braunii;north american fern whose more or less evergreen leathery fronds are covered with pale brown chafflike scales
mouflon;wild short-fleeced mountain sheep of corsica and sardinia
saddled shaped false morel;a poisonous fungus. saddle-shaped and dull yellow to brown fertile part is relatively even
balsamroot;a plant of the genus balsamorhiza having white-downy leaves in a basal rosettend yellow flowers and long balsam-scented taproots
eau de cologne mint;mint with leaves having perfume like that of the bergamot orange
ivory nut palm;a stemless palm tree of brazil and peru bearing ivory nuts
nutmeg melon;a muskmelon vine with fruit that has a thin reticulated rind and sweet green flesh
flowering fern;australasian fern with clusters of sporangia on stems of fertile fronds
swamp white oak;large flaky-barked deciduous oak of the eastern united states with leaves having fewer lobes than other white oaks. yields heavy strong wood used in construction. thrives in wet soil
wild orange;small flowering evergreen tree of southern united states
river prawn;large (a foot or more) edible freshwater prawn common in australian rivers
bear s paw fern;epiphytic fern with large fronds. taiwan and philippines
medicago echinus;an annual of the mediterranean area having spiny seed pods and leaves with dark spots
scops owl;any of several small owls having ear tufts and a whistling call
new world anteater;any of several tropical american mammals of the family myrmecophagidae which lack teeth and feed on ants and termites
tangerine tree;a variety of mandarin orange
pin grass;european weed naturalized in southwestern united states and mexico having reddish decumbent stems with small fernlike leaves and small deep reddish-lavender flowers followed by slender pinlike fruits that stick straight up. often grown for forage
chickweed;any of various plants related to the common chickweed
sundew;any of various bog plants of the genus drosera having leaves covered with sticky hairs that trap and digest insects. cosmopolitan in distribution
notropis atherinoides;small blunt-nosed fish of great lakes and mississippi valley with a greenish luster
anomala orientalis;introduced into united states from the orient. larvae feed on roots of sugarcane and other grasses
bell heather;dwarf european shrub with rose-colored flowers
chaenactis;any of several united states plants having long stalks of funnel-shaped white or yellow flowers
scale fern;small european fern with chaffy leathery fronds
cartilaginous fish;fishes in which the skeleton may be calcified but not ossified
carduelis hornemanni;small siskin-like finch with a red crown
volvariella volvacea;small tropical and subtropical edible mushroom having a white cap and long stem. an expensive delicacy in china and other asian countries where it is grown commercially
chile hazel;chilean shrub bearing coral-red fruit with an edible seed resembling a hazelnut
hart s tongue fern;tropical american terrestrial fern with leathery lanceolate fronds. sometimes placed in genus polybotrya
parasol mushroom;edible long-stalked mushroom with white flesh and gills and spores. found in open woodlands in autumn
spanish cedar tree;tropical american tree yielding fragrant wood used especially for boxes
south african yellowwood;erect or shrubby tree of africa having ridged dark gray bark and rigid glossy medium to long leaves
pseudotaxus chienii;yew of southeastern china, differing from the old world yew in having white berries
night blooming cereus;any of several cacti of the genus hylocereus
whalebone whale;whale with plates of whalebone along the upper jaw for filtering plankton from the water
plethodont;mostly terrestrial salamanders that breathe through their thin moist skin. lay eggs in moist places on land. rarely enter water
sapindus saponaria;evergreen of tropical america having pulpy fruit containing saponin which was used as soap by native americans
indigofera suffruticosa;shrub of west indies and south america that is a source of indigo dye
macleaya cordata;herb of china and japan widely cultivated for its plumelike panicles of creamy white flowers
field pea;variety of pea plant native to the mediterranean region and north africa and widely grown especially for forage
lovebird;small african parrot noted for showing affection for their mates
water orchid;a tropical floating aquatic plant having spikes of large blue flowers. troublesome in clogging waterways especially in southern united states
porcupinefish;spines become erect when the body is inflated. worldwide in warm waters
wonderberry;improved garden variety of black nightshade having small edible orange or black berries
garlic press;a press for extracting juice from garlic
macrozamia communis;large attractive palmlike evergreen cycad of new south wales
illicium verum;small tree of china and vietnam bearing anise-scented star-shaped fruit used in food and medicinally as a carminative
bishop pine;2- or 3-needled pinon mostly of northwestern california coast
pereskia aculeata;west indian woody scrambler with spiny stems and numerous fragrant white flowers in panicles followed by small yellow to orange fruits
syringa amurensis japonica;small tree of japan having narrow pointed leaves and creamy-white flowers
sidewinder;small pale-colored desert rattlesnake of southwestern united states. body moves in an s-shaped curve
sandfish;either of two small silvery scaleless fishes of the north pacific that burrow into sand
salix pendulina;hybrid willow usually not strongly weeping in habit
taxus cuspidata;shrubby hardy evergreen of china and japan having lustrous dark green foliage. cultivated in the eastern united states
red bearberry;evergreen mat-forming shrub of north america and northern eurasia having small white flowers and red berries. leaves turn red in autumn
marri;very large red gum tree
bleeding tooth;gastropod having reddish toothlike projections around the shell opening. of the caribbean area
pinus pinea;medium-sized 2-needled pine of southern europe having a spreading crown. widely cultivated for its sweet almond-like seeds
spirula peronii;a small tropical cephalopod of the genus spirula having prominent eyes and short arms and a many-chambered shell coiled in a flat spiral
branta canadensis;common grayish-brown wild goose of north america
erithacus rubecola;small old world songbird with a reddish breast
praya;colonial siphonophore of up to 130 ft long
mammuthus primigenius;very hairy mammoth common in colder portions of the northern hemisphere
wrymouth;eellike atlantic bottom fish with large almost vertical mouth
cliffbrake;any of several small lithophytic ferns of tropical and warm temperate regions
irish wolfhound;large breed of hound with a rough thick coat
death cap;extremely poisonous usually white fungus with a prominent cup-shaped base. differs from edible agaricus only in its white gills
sweet false chamomile;annual eurasian herb similar in fragrance and medicinal uses to chamomile though taste is more bitter and effect is considered inferior
bluejack oak;small semi-evergreen shrubby tree of southeastern united states having hairy young branchlets and leaves narrowing to a slender bristly point
eruca vesicaria sativa;erect european annual often grown as a salad crop to be harvested when young and tender
dracaena draco;tall tree of the canary islands. source of dragon's blood
young;any immature animal
kangaroo mouse;small silky-haired pouched rodent. similar to but smaller than kangaroo rats
long eared owl;slender european owl of coniferous forests with long ear tufts
eburophyton austinae;waxy white nearly leafless plant with stems in clusters and racemes of white flowers. northwestern united states to northern california and east to idaho
lignosae;a category in some early taxonomies
gutierrezia texana;annual of southwestern united states having rigid woody branches with sticky foliage and yellow flowers
tomatillo;annual of mexico and southern united states having edible purplish viscid fruit resembling small tomatoes
valley oak;tall graceful deciduous california oak having leathery leaves and slender pointed acorns
european lemming;notable for mass migrations even into the sea where many drown
triplochiton scleroxcylon;large west african tree having large palmately lobed leaves and axillary cymose panicles of small white flowers and one-winged seeds. yields soft white to pale yellow wood
hedge sparrow;small brownish european songbird
ryegrass;any of several annual or perennial eurasian grasses
narrow leaved bottletree;large tree of queensland australia having cream-colored flowers blotched with red inside. sometimes placed in genus sterculia
monkeypod;large ornamental tropical american tree withbipinnate leaves and globose clusters of flowers with crimson stamens and sweet-pulp seed pods eaten by cattle
tailless tenrec;prolific animal that feeds chiefly on earthworms
seriola dorsalis;game fish of s california and mexico having a yellow tail fin
corypha umbraculifera;tall palm of southern india and sri lanka with gigantic leaves used as umbrellas and fans or cut into strips for writing paper
god tree;massive tropical tree with deep ridges on its massive trunk and bearing large pods of seeds covered with silky floss. source of the silky kapok fiber
balsam herb;tansy-scented eurasian perennial herb with buttonlike yellow flowers. used as potherb or salad green and sometimes for potpourri or tea or flavoring. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
clinopodium grandiflorum;aromatic herb with large pink flowers. southern and southeastern europe. anatolia. northern iran
erechtites hieracifolia;an american weedy plant with small white or greenish flowers
fringe tree;any of various small decorative flowering trees or shrubs of the genus chionanthus
brontosaur;huge quadrupedal herbivorous dinosaur common in n. america in the late jurassic
european cranberrybush;deciduous thicket-forming old world shrub with clusters of white flowers and small bright red berries
helix aspersa;serious garden pest having a brown shell with paler zigzag markings. nearly cosmopolitan
tulipa clusiana;eurasian tulip with small flowers blotched at the base
sweet elder;common elder of central and eastern north america bearing purple-black berries. fruit used in wines and jellies
megaderma lyra;large carnivorous old world bat with very large ears
california yew;small or medium irregularly branched tree of the pacific coast of north america. yields fine hard close-grained wood
actitis macularia;common north american sandpiper
yellow watercress;annual or biennial cress growing in damp places sometimes used in salads or as a potherb. troublesome weed in some localities
oregon oak;small deciduous tree of western north america with crooked branches and pale gray bark
crocethia alba;small sandpiper that breeds in the arctic and migrates south along sandy coasts in most of world
slipper;any of several chiefly american wildflowers having an inflated pouchlike lip. difficult or impossible to cultivate in the garden
bed bug;bug of temperate regions that infests esp. beds and feeds on human blood
mus rose;erect old world perennial with faintly musk-scented foliage and white or pink flowers. adventive in united states
elk;large northern deer with enormous flattened antlers in the male. called elk in europe and moose in north america
live bearer;small usually brightly-colored viviparous surface-feeding fishes of fresh or brackish warm waters. often used in mosquito control
leuciscus leuciscus;small european freshwater fish with a slender bluish-green body
kok saghyz;perennial dandelion native to kazakh republic of russia cultivated for its fleshy roots which have high rubber content
radish;eurasian plant widely cultivated for its edible pungent root usually eaten raw
prumnopitys ferruginea;new zealand conifer
midwife toad;similar in habit to alytes obstetricians
satinwood;east indian tree with valuable hard lustrous yellowish wood.
missel thrush;large european thrush that feeds on mistletoe berries
flame tree;showy tropical tree or shrub native to madagascar. widely planted in tropical regions for its immense racemes of scarlet and orange flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
ovis ammon;wild sheep of semidesert regions in central asia
great blue shark;slender cosmopolitan, pelagic shark. blue body shades to white belly. dangerous esp. during maritime disasters
night raven;nocturnal or crepuscular herons
adiantum pedatum;hardy palmately branched north american fern with divergent recurved branches borne on lustrous dark reddish stipes
vase vine;scandent subshrub of southeastern united states having large red-purple bell-shaped flowers with leathery recurved sepals
madagascar plum;small shrubby tree of madagascar cultivated in tropical regions as a hedge plant and for its deep red acid fruits resembling small plums
carob;long pod containing small beans and sweetish edible pulp. used as animal feed and source of a chocolate substitute
golden shower tree;deciduous or semi-evergreen tree having scented sepia to yellow flowers in drooping racemes and pods whose pulp is used medicinally. tropical asia and central and south america and australia
canna;any plant of the genus canna having large sheathing leaves and clusters of large showy flowers
subshrub;low-growing woody shrub or perennial with woody base
pyracanth;any of various thorny shrubs of the genus pyracantha bearing small white flowers followed by hard red or orange-red berries
shortfin mako;very swift active bluish shark found worldwide in warm waters. important game fish
brazilian rosewood;an important brazilian timber tree yielding a heavy hard dark-colored wood streaked with black
tiarella unifoliata;plant with tiny white flowers hanging in loose clusters on leafy stems. moist woods from alaska to central california and east to montana
polisher;a power tool used to buff surfaces
abalone;any of various large edible marine gastropods of the genus heliotis having an ear-shaped shell with pearly interior
dormouse;small furry-tailed squirrel-like old world rodent that becomes torpid in cold weather
particolored buckeye;a buckeye marked by different colors or tints
magnetoelectric machine;a small dynamo with a secondary winding that produces a high voltage enabling a spark to jump between the poles of a spark plug in a gasoline engine
garpike;primitive predaceous north american fish covered with hard scales and having long jaws with needle-like teeth
iris pseudacorus;common yellow-flowered iris of europe and north africa, naturalized in united states and often cultivated
triaenodon obseus;smooth dogfish of pacific and indian oceans and red sea having white-tipped dorsal and caudal fins
tailwort;hairy blue-flowered european annual herb long used in herbal medicine and eaten raw as salad greens or cooked like spinach
tussock bellflower;european perennial bellflower that grows in clumps with spreading stems and blue or white flowers
verdolagas;weedy trailing mat-forming herb with bright yellow flowers cultivated for its edible mildly acid leaves eaten raw or cooked especially in indian and greek and middle eastern cuisine. cosmopolitan
meadow leek;north american bulbous plant
sand dollar;flattened disklike sea urchins that live on sandy bottoms
green woodpecker;woodpecker of europe and western asia
listera ovata;orchid having a pair of ovate leaves and a long slender raceme of green flowers sometimes tinged red-brown. europe to central asia
sergeant major;large blue-gray black-striped damselfish. nearly worldwide
catfish;large ferocious northern deep-sea food fishes with strong teeth and no pelvic fins
felis tigrina;medium-sized wildcat of central and south america having a dark-striped coat
pumpkinseed;small brilliantly colored north american sunfish
welsh poppy;widely cultivated west european plant with showy pale yellow flowers
bush lawyer;stout-stemmed trailing shrub of new zealand that scrambles over other growth
yellow shafted flicker;large flicker of eastern north america with a red neck and yellow undersurface to wings and tail
crex crex;common eurasian rail that frequents grain fields
bot;botfly larva. typically develops inside the body of a horse or sheep or human
triquetrous leek;european leek naturalized in great britain. leaves triangular in section
catchfly;mostly perennial herbs with sticky stems that catch insects. widespread in north temperate zone
perdix perdix;common european partridge
blue sage;aromatic shrub of arid regions of western north america having hoary leaves
purple grackle;eastern united states grackle
galium verum;common yellow-flowered perennial bedstraw. north america and europe and asia
two eyed violet;violet of pacific coast of north america having white petals tinged with yellow and deep violet
scythian lamb;asiatic tree fern having dense matted hairs sometimes used as a styptic
pasque flower;any plant of the genus pulsatilla. sometimes included in genus anemone
penstemon deustus;stems in clumps with cream-colored flowers. washington state to wyoming and south to california and utah
chenopodium album;common weedy european plant introduced into north america. often used as a potherb
wing elm;north american elm having twigs and young branches with prominent corky projections
caesalpinia echinata;tropical tree with prickly trunk. its heavy red wood yields a red dye and is used for cabinetry
american saddle horse;a high-stepping horse originating in kentucky
buffalo;any of several old world animals resembling oxen including, e.g., water buffalo. cape buffalo
black mangrove;an australian tree resembling the black mangrove of the west indies and florida
head;an individual person. 'tickets are __5 per head'
valerianella olitoria;widely cultivated as a salad crop and pot herb. often a weed
sonora semiannulata;small shy brightly-ringed terrestrial snake of arid or semiarid areas of western north america
pepper;any of various tropical plants of the genus capsicum bearing peppers
australian nettle;any of several tall australian trees of the genus laportea
ridgel;a colt with undescended testicles
gerardia;any plant of the genus gerardia
sea scorpion;marine fishes having a tapering body with an armored head and venomous spines
tung oil tree;chinese tree bearing seeds that yield tung oil
booklouse;minute wingless psocopterous insects injurious to books and papers
red fox;the common old world fox. having reddish-brown fur. commonly considered a single circumpolar species
trimorphodon lambda;of desert regions of southwestern north america
salvelinus alpinus;small trout of northern waters. landlocked populations in quebec and northern new england
anhinga anhinga;blackish new world snakebird of swampy regions
sloe;a thorny eurasian bush with plumlike fruits
millipede;any of numerous herbivorous nonpoisonous arthropods having a cylindrical body of 20 to 100 or more segments most with two pairs of legs
prince albert yew;small yew having attractive foliage and partially weeping branches cultivated as an ornamental. mountains of southern chile
anaspid;extinct small freshwater jawless fish usually having a heterocercal tail and an armored head. of the silurian and devonian
aquilegia;a plant of the genus aquilegia having irregular showy spurred flowers. north temperate regions especially mountains
crepe flower;ornamental e. indian shrub commonly planted in southern united states
house sparrow;small hardy brown-and-gray bird native to europe
heath hen;extinct prairie chicken
martes zibellina;marten of north asian forests having luxuriant dark brown fur
trotting horse;a horse trained to trot esp. one trained for harness racing
common garden cress;annual herb used as salad green and garnish
mongoose;agile grizzled old world viverrine. preys on snakes and rodents
raisin moth;moth whose larvae attack dried fruits and cereal products
family cyrilliaceae;shrubs and trees with leathery leaves and small white flowers in racemes: genera cyrilla and cliftonia
fritillaria imperialis;eurasian herb with a cluster of leaves and orange-red bell-shaped flowers at the top of the stem
trapa bicornis;water chestnut whose spiny fruit has two rather than 4 prongs
dagga;relatively nontoxic south african herb smoked like tobacco
irish moss;dark purple edible seaweed of the atlantic coasts of europe and north america
clitoria turnatea;vine of tropical asia having pinnate leaves and bright blue yellow-centered flowers
balloon vine;woody perennial climbing plant with large ornamental seed pods that resemble balloons. tropical india and africa and america
squash;any of numerous annual tendril-bearing trailing plants of the genus cucurbita grown for their fleshy edible fruits
winter hazel;any of several asiatic deciduous shrubs cultivated for their nodding racemes of yellow flowers that appear before the leaves
grey fox;dark gray american fox. from central america through southern united states
grouper;usually solitary bottom sea basses of warm seas
low warp loom;a handloom in which the warp is carried horizontally. for weaving tapestry
wampee;american plant having spikes of blue flowers and growing in shallow water of streams and ponds
yellow cedar;tall evergreen of north american pacific coast often cultivated for ornament
brush wolf;small wolf native to western north america
sambar;south asian deer with three-tined antlers
black root rot fungus;fungus causing black root rot in apples
indian potato;very tall american perennial of central and the eastern united states to canada having edible tuberous roots
clove pink;eurasian plant with pink to purple-red spice-scented usually double flowers. widely cultivated in many varieties and many colors
white fungus;a fungus that attacks living fish and tadpoles and spawn causing white fungus disease: a coating of white hyphae on especially peripheral parts (as fins)
cowrie;any of numerous tropical marine gastropods of the genus cypraea having highly polished usually brightly marked shells
violet suksdorfia;slender delicate plant with wide roundish deeply lobed leaves and deep pink to violet funnel-shaped flowers. british columbia to northern oregon and west to idaho and montana
solenostemon blumei;perennial aromatic herb of southeastern asia having large usually bright-colored or blotched leaves and spikes of blue-violet flowers. sometimes placed in genus solenostemon
nailrod;tall marsh plant with pokerlike seed heads that explode when mature shedding large quantities of down. its long flat leaves are used for making mats and chair seats. of north america, europe, asia and north africa
kail;a hardy cabbage with coarse curly leaves that do not form a head
radiigera fuscogleba;a fungus similar to an earthstar except that it does not open up. the spore mass is brown at maturity with a column of sterile tissue extending up into it
stem ginger;tropical asian plant widely cultivated for its pungent root. source of gingerroot and powdered ginger
holy thistle;tall old world biennial thistle with large clasping white-blotched leaves and purple flower heads. naturalized in california and south america
spider orchid;any of several european orchids of the genus ophrys
ivy arum;evergreen liana widely cultivated for its variegated foliage
bletilla striata;japanese orchid with white-striped leaves and slender erect racemes of rose to magenta flowers. often cultivated. sometimes placed in genus bletia
whiting;any of several food fishes of north american coastal waters
belgian sheep dog;hardy working dog developed in belgium for herding sheep
narcissus pseudonarcissus;any of numerous varieties of narcissus plants having showy often yellow flowers with a trumpet-shaped central crown
feather reed grass;a variety of reed grass
goat rue;tall bushy european perennial grown for its masses of light-textured pinnate foliage and slender spikes of blue flowers. sometimes used medicinally
edmontosaurus;duck-billed dinosaur from canada found as a fossilized mummy with skin
shigella dysentariae;a bacillus that causes dysentery
wasp;social or solitary hymenopterans typically having a slender body with the abdomen attached by a narrow stalk and having a formidable sting
touraco;large brightly crested bird of africa
big shellbark hickory;hickory of the eastern united states resembling the shagbark but having a much larger nut
brazilian trumpeter;trumpeter of brazil and guiana. often kept to protect poultry in brazil
corypha gebanga;large-leaved palm of malay to philippines and northern australia. leaves used for thatching or plaiting into containers
athodyd;a simple type of jet engine. must be launched at high speed
sea spider;any of various small spider-like marine arthropods having small thin bodies and long slender legs
american cranberry;trailing red-fruited plant
foxtail millet;coarse drought-resistant annual grass grown for grain, hay and forage in europe and asia and chiefly for forage and hay in united states
ambystomid salamander;small to moderate-sized terrestrial or semiaquatic new world salamander
raffia vinifera;a palm of the genus raffia
quassia amara;handsome south american shrub or small tree having bright scarlet flowers and yielding a valuable fine-grained yellowish wood. yields the bitter drug quassia from its wood and bark
ajaia ajaja;tropical rose-colored new world spoonbill
male horse;the male of species equus caballus
scyphozoan;any of various usually free-swimming marine coelenterates having a gelatinous medusoid stage as the dominant phase of its life cycle
common thorn apple;intensely poisonous tall coarse annual tropical weed having rank-smelling foliage, large white or violet trumpet-shaped flowers and prickly fruits
umbrella tree;erect evergreen shrub or small tree of australia and northern guinea having palmately compound leaves
argentine;any of various small silver-scaled salmon-like marine fishes
mouse;any of numerous small rodents typically resembling diminutive rats having pointed snouts and small ears on elongated bodies with slender usually hairless tails
sitta europaea;a kind of nuthatch
eschrichtius robustus;medium-sized grayish-black whale of the north pacific
horseweed;erect perennial strong-scented with serrate pointed leaves and a loose panicle of yellowish flowers. the eastern united states
flour corn;corn having kernels almost entirely of soft starch
japanese rose;vigorously growing rose having clusters of numerous small flowers. used for hedges and as grafting stock
lontar;tall fan palm of africa and india and malaysia yielding a hard wood and sweet sap that is a source of palm wine and sugar. leaves used for thatching and weaving
evergreen plant;a plant having foliage that persists and remains green throughout the year
zebra finch;small australian weaverbird with markings like a zebra's
klammath weed;yellow-flowered perennial common in fields and waste places but a weed in rangelands
bomarea edulis;tropical vine having pink-and-yellow flowers spotted purple and edible roots sometimes boiled as a potato substitute. west indies to northern south america
glade mallow;tall coarse american herb having palmate leaves and numerous small white dioecious flowers. found wild in most alluvial soils of eastern and central united states
fringe cups;plant growing in clumps with mostly basal leaves and cream or pale pink fringed flowers in several long racemes. alaska to coastal central california and east to idaho
orycteropus afer;nocturnal burrowing mammal of the grasslands of africa that feeds on termites. sole extant representative of the order tubulidentata
bushy aster;stiff perennial of the eastern united states having small linear leaves and numerous tiny white flower heads
freshwater cordgrass;north american cordgrass having leaves with dry membranous margins and glumes with long awns
table mountain pine;small 2-needled upland pine of the eastern united states (appalachians) having dark brown flaking bark and thorn-tipped cone scales
gavial;large fish-eating indian crocodilian with a long slender snout
phyllocladus alpinus;small shrubby celery pine of new zealand
may beetle;any of various large european beetles destructive to vegetation as both larvae and adult
pratincole;old world shorebird with long pointed wings and short legs. closely related to the coursers
common evening primrose;a coarse biennial of eastern north america with yellow flowers that open in the evening. naturalized in europe
ochotona collaris;similar to little chief hare and may be same species
wild hollyhock;perennial purple-flowered wild mallow of western north america that is also cultivated
golden plover;plovers of europe and america having the backs marked with golden-yellow spots
thyme leaved sandwort;eurasian annual sprawling plant naturalized throughout north america
silver berry;deciduous unarmed north american shrub with silvery leaves and fruits
hygrocybe acutoconica;a fungus having an acutely conic cap and dry stalks
solanum crispum;hardy climbing shrub of chile grown as an ornamental for its fragrant flowers. not a true potato
ulmus thomasii;tall widely distributed elm of eastern north america
blatta orientalis;dark brown cockroach originally from orient now nearly cosmopolitan in distribution
drooping brome;annual or winter annual grass with softly hairy leaves of the mediterranean
queen s crape myrtle;native to asia, australia, and east indies, where it provides timber called pyinma. used elsewhere as an ornamental for its large showy flowers
whin;small eurasian shrub having clusters of yellow flowers that yield a dye. common as weed in england and united states. sometimes grown as an ornamental
diplodocus;huge quadrupedal herbivore with long neck and tail. of late jurassic in western n. america
land rail;common eurasian rail that frequents grain fields
sheep ked;wingless fly that is an external parasite on sheep and cattle
devil lily;east asian perennial having large reddish-orange black-spotted flowers with reflexed petals
russian thistle;prickly bushy eurasian plant. a troublesome weed in central and western united states
whip snake;any of several fast-moving north american snakes with long whiplike tails
gallinaceous bird;heavy-bodied largely ground-feeding domestic or game birds
dendroica tigrina;north american wood warbler. olive green and yellow striped with black
lamellibranch;marine or freshwater mollusks having a soft body with platelike gills enclosed within two shells hinged together
holcus lanatus;tall european perennial grass having a velvety stem. naturalized in united states and used for forage
calosoma;any beetle of the genus calosoma
doura;sorghums of dry regions of asia and north africa
mytilid;marine bivalve mollusk having a dark elongated shell. live attached to solid objects esp. in intertidal zones
evergreen cherry;california evergreen wild plum with spiny leathery leaves and white flowers
simian;an ape or monkey
saddle horse;a lightweight horse kept for riding only
aquilegia coerulia;columbine of rocky mts having long-spurred blue flowers
fraxinus velutina;small shrubby ash of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico
estragon;aromatic perennial of southeastern russia
snake wood;tropical american tree with large peltate leaves and hollow stems
eastern meadowlark;a meadowlark of eastern north america
european shrike;common european butcherbird
rosilla;a sneezeweed of southwestern united states especially southern california
hordeum murinum;european annual grass often found as a weed in waste ground especially along roadsides and hedgerows
gravelweed;perennial herb with yellow flowers. southern and south central united states
boar;an uncastrated male hog
roble beech;tall deciduous south american tree
tyrant flycatcher;large american birds that characteristically catch insects on the wing
phlebodium aureum;tropical american fern with brown scaly rhizomes cultivated for its large deeply lobed deep bluish-green fronds. sometimes placed in genus polypodium
song thrush;common old world thrush noted for its song
anguillula aceti;minute eelworm that feeds on organisms that cause fermentation in e.g. vinegar
perisoreus canadensis capitalis;a canada jay with a white head. widely distributed from montana to arizona
tree swallow;of australia and polynesia. nests in tree cavities
plantago psyllium;plantain of mediterranean regions whose seeds swell and become gelatinous when moist and are used as a mild laxative
chamaecyparis thyoides;slow-growing medium-sized cedar of east coast of the united states. resembles american arborvitae
standard schnauzer;a medium-sized schnauzer
babirussa;indonesian wild pig with enormous curved canine teeth
skunk cabbage;deciduous perennial low-growing fetid swamp plant of eastern north america having minute flowers enclosed in a mottled greenish or purple cowl-shaped spathe
dryopteris dilatata;european shield fern
boarhound;large hound used in hunting wild boars
fish louse;a kind of copepod
carya cordiformis;hickory of the eastern united states having a leaves with 7 or 9 leaflets and thin-shelled very bitter nuts
slender wheatgrass;north american grass cultivated in western united states as excellent forage crop
butterfly orchid;any orchid of the genus psychopsis: spectacular large tiger-striped orchids
white mullet;silvery mullet of atlantic and pacific coasts
marvel of peru;common garden plant of north america having fragrant red or purple or yellow or white flowers that open in late afternoon
mertensia virginica;smooth erect herb of eastern north america having entire leaves and showy blue flowers that are pink in bud
green dragon;european arum resembling the cuckoopint
ailurus fulgens;reddish-brown old world raccoon-like carnivore. in some classifications considered unrelated to the giant pandas
midsummer men;eurasian mountain plant with fleshy pink-tipped leaves and a cluster of yellow flowers
new world jay;a north american jay
dolphinfish;large slender food and game fish widely distributed in warm seas (especially around hawaii)
argemone;any plant of the genus argemone having large white or yellow flowers and prickly leaves and stems and pods. chiefly of tropical america
hymenaea courbaril;west indian locust tree having pinnate leaves and panicles of large white or purplish flowers. yields very hard tough wood
chenopodium capitatum;european annual with clusters of greenish flowers followed by red pulpy berrylike fruit. naturalized north america
bollworm;any of various moth caterpillars that destroy cotton bolls
heliophila;any of various south african herbs and subshrubs cultivated for long showy racemes of bright blue flowers with white eyes
mountain paca;rodent of mountains of western south america
chimaera monstrosa;large european chimaera
nectarine;variety or mutation of the peach bearing smooth-skinned fruit with usually yellow flesh
yam bean;twining plant of amazon basin having large edible roots
piranga flava hepatica;common tanager of southwestern united states and mexico
quagga;mammal of south africa that resembled a zebra. extinct since late 19th century
evergreen oak;evergreen oak of southern europe having leaves somewhat resembling those of holly. yields a hard wood
ceiba pentandra;massive tropical tree with deep ridges on its massive trunk and bearing large pods of seeds covered with silky floss. source of the silky kapok fiber
mastigophore;usually nonphotosynthetic free-living protozoan with whiplike appendages. some pathogens of humans and other animals
western ragweed;coarse perennial ragweed with creeping roots of dry barren lands of southwestern united states and mexico
ermine;mustelid of northern hemisphere in its white winter coat
scurvy grass;any plant of the genus barbarea: yellow-flowered eurasian cresses. widely cultivated for winter salad
witch hazel;any of several shrubs or trees of the genus hamamelis. bark yields an astringent lotion
yellow birch;tree of eastern north america with thin lustrous yellow or gray bark
northern parula;small gray-blue wood warbler with yellow throat and breast. of eastern north america
flying lizard;any of several small tropical asian lizards capable of gliding by spreading winglike membranes on each side of the body
yellow pond lily;common water lily of eastern and central north america, having broad leaves and globe-shaped yellow flowers. in sluggish fresh or slightly brackish water
jellyleaf;herb widely distributed in tropics and subtropics used for forage and medicinally as a demulcent and having a fine soft bast stronger than jute. sometimes an aggressive weed
grub;a soft thick wormlike larva of certain beetles and other insects
horseshoe bat;bat having a horseshoe-shaped leaf on the nose
bassarisk;raccoon-like omnivorous mammal of mexico and the southwestern united states having a long bushy tail with black and white rings
nephthytis;any plant of the genus nephthytis
phacelia;any plant of the genus phacelia
natal plum;south african shrub having forked spines and plumlike fruit. frequently used as hedging
schnauzer;old german breed of sturdy black or grayish wire-haired terriers having a blunt muzzle ranging in size from fairly small to very large. used as ratters and guard dogs or police dogs
pin clover;european weed naturalized in southwestern united states and mexico having reddish decumbent stems with small fernlike leaves and small deep reddish-lavender flowers followed by slender pinlike fruits that stick straight up. often grown for forage
dicentra cucullaria;delicate spring-flowering plant of the eastern united states having double-spurred white flowers
mariposa tulip;any of several plants of the genus calochortus having tulip-shaped flowers with 3 sepals and 3 petals. southwestern united states and mexico
earth almond;european sedge having small edible nutlike tubers
purple avens;erect perennial of north temperate zone having pinnate leaves and few nodding flowers with brown-purple calyx and orange-pink petals
trichopteron;caddis fly
lancelet;small translucent lancet-shaped burrowing marine animal. primitive forerunner of the vertebrates
scolopendrium;a fern thought to resemble a millipede
hottonia palustris;featherfoil of europe and western asia having submerged and floating leaves and violet flowers
true pepper;any of various shrubby vines of the genus piper
australian terrier;small grayish wire-haired breed of terrier from australia similar to the cairn
azedarach;tree of northern india and china having purple blossoms and small inedible yellow fruits. naturalized in the southern united states as a shade tree
satinwood;hard yellowish wood of a satinwood tree having a satiny luster. used for fine cabinetwork and tools
taxus baccata;predominant yew in europe. extraordinarily long-lived and slow growing. one of the oldest species in the world
large leaved magnolia;large deciduous shrub or tree of southeastern united states having huge leaves in dense false whorls and large creamy flowers tinged purple toward the base
wild medlar;small deciduous tree of southern africa having edible fruit
egyptian grass;a creeping grass with spikes like fingers
puffball;any of various fungi of the genus scleroderma having hard-skinned subterranean trufflelike fruiting bodies
krill;shrimp-like planktonic crustaceans. major source of food for e.g. baleen whales
notornis mantelli;flightless new zealand birds similar to gallinules
allium haematochiton;onion with white to deep red tunic. california
lonicera hirsuta;twining deciduous shrub with hairy leaves and spikes of yellow-orange flowers. northeastern america
caesalpinia decapetala;spreading thorny shrub of tropical asia bearing large erect racemes of red-marked yellow flowers
mucuna;any of several erect or climbing woody plants of the genus mucuna. widespread in tropics of both hemispheres
beebalm;perennial aromatic herb of eastern north america having variously colored tubular flowers in dense showy heads
black hellebore;slightly hairy perennial having deep green leathery leaves and flowers that are ultimately purplish-green
true sandalwood;indo-malayan parasitic tree having fragrant close-grained yellowish heartwood with insect-repelling properties and used for e.g. chests
mayetiola destructor;small fly whose larvae damage wheat and other grains
bobcat;small lynx of north america
senna obtusifolia;cosmopolitan tropical herb or subshrub with yellow flowers and slender curved pods. a weed. sometimes placed in genus cassia
fraser fir;small fast-growing but short-lived fir of southern alleghenies similar to balsam fir but with very short leaves
shawny;showy perennial herb with white flowers. leaves sometimes used as edible greens in southeastern united states
cuckoo flower;common perennial native to europe and western asia having usually pink flowers with ragged petals
mudspringer;found in tropical coastal regions of africa and asia. able to move on land on strong pectoral fins
trifid bur marigold;of temperate eurasia
purple ground cherry;annual of tropical south america having edible purple fruits
martes pennanti;large dark brown north american arboreal carnivorous mammal
strophanthus;any of various shrubs or small trees of the genus strophanthus having whorled leaves and showy flowers of various colors in dense and few-flowered corymbose clusters. some have poisonous seeds
coralwood;east indian tree with racemes of yellow-white flowers. cultivated as an ornamental
horse cassia;east indian tree having long pods containing a black cathartic pulp used as a horse medicine
leucothoe fontanesiana;fast-growing evergreen shrub of southeastern united states having arching interlaced branches and racemes of white flowers
partridge;valued as a game bird in eastern united states and canada
giraffa camelopardalis;tallest living quadruped. having a spotted coat and small horns and very long neck and legs. of savannahs of tropical africa
american oil palm;palm of central and south america
fraxinus excelsior;tall ash of europe to the caucasus having leaves shiny dark-green above and pale downy beneath
cast iron plant;evergreen perennial with large handsome basal leaves. grown primarily as a foliage houseplant
thunbergia alata;tropical african climbing plant having yellow flowers with a dark purple center
sow thistle;any of several old world coarse prickly-leaved shrubs and subshrubs having milky juice and yellow flowers. widely naturalized. often noxious weeds in cultivated soil
cow parsnip;tall coarse plant having thick stems and cluster of white to purple flowers
permit;large game fish. found in waters of the west indies
california yellow bells;viscid herb of arid or desert habitats of southwestern united states having pendulous yellow flowers
zannichellia palustris;found in still or slow-moving fresh or brackish water. useful oxygenator for cool water ponds and aquaria
sand myrtle;low-growing evergreen shrub of new jersey to florida grown for its many white star-shaped flowers and glossy foliage
cystophora cristata;medium-sized blackish-gray seal with large inflatable sac on the head. of arctic-atlantic waters
angiosperm;plants having seeds in a closed ovary
squilla;a kind of mantis shrimp
sphaeralcea coccinea;false mallow of western united states having racemose red flowers. sometimes placed in genus malvastrum
mentha spicata;common garden herb having clusters of small purplish flowers and yielding an oil used as a flavoring
reindeer;arctic deer with large antlers in both sexes. called reindeer in eurasia and caribou in north america
mesembryanthemum edule;low-growing south african succulent plant having a capsular fruit containing edible pulp
ursus middendorffi;brown bear of coastal alaska and british columbia
actaea alba;north american herb with white poisonous berries
brewer s spruce;medium-sized spruce of california and oregon having pendulous branches
pine marten;dark brown marten of northern eurasian coniferous forests
phyllostachys nigra;small bamboo having thin green culms turning shining black
podocarpus latifolius;erect or shrubby tree of africa having ridged dark gray bark and rigid glossy medium to long leaves
mountain devil;erect bushy shrub of eastern australia having terminal clusters of red flowers yielding much nectar
yew;any of numerous evergreen trees or shrubs having red cup-shaped berries and flattened needlelike leaves
rush nut;european sedge having small edible nutlike tubers
helianthemum scoparium;woody yellow-flowered perennial of southeastern united states
wood fern;any of various ferns of the genus dryopteris
datura suaveolens;south american plant cultivated for its very large nocturnally fragrant trumpet-shaped flowers
skilletfish;clingfish with typical skillet shape
elkhorn fern;commonly cultivated fern of australia and southeastern asia and polynesia
cyprinid fish;soft-finned mainly freshwater fishes typically having toothless jaws and cycloid scales
suksdorfia;any of several american plants of the genus suksdorfia having orbicular to kidney-shaped somewhat succulent leaves and white or rose or violet flowers in terminal panicles
tarpon atlanticus;large silvery game fish of warm atlantic coastal waters especially off florida
devil s darning needle;slender-bodied non-stinging insect having iridescent wings that are outspread at rest. adults and nymphs feed on mosquitoes etc.
welsh springer spaniel;a red-and-white breed slightly smaller than the english springer spaniel
angelica sylvestris;european herb with compound leaves and white flowers. adventive on cape breton island
luffa;any of several tropical annual climbers having large yellow flowers and edible young fruits. grown commercially for the mature fruit's dried fibrous interior that is used as a sponge
dermatobia hominis;large tropical american fly. parasitic on humans and other mammals
tit;small insectivorous birds
otter shrew;amphibious african insectivorous mammal that resembles an otter
garganey;small eurasian teal
california bay tree;pacific coast tree having aromatic foliage and small umbellate flowers followed by olivelike fruit. yields a hard tough wood
high mallow;erect or decumbent old world perennial with axillary clusters of rosy-purple flowers. introduced in united states
hag;eellike cyclostome having a tongue with horny teeth in a round mouth surrounded by eight tentacles. feeds on dead or trapped fishes by boring into their bodies
booster unit;the first stage of a multistage rocket
boysenberry;cultivated hybrid bramble of california having large dark wine-red fruit with a raspberrylike flavor
ferret badger;small ferret-like badger of southeast asia
jack pine;slender medium-sized 2-needled pine of eastern north america. with yellow-green needles and scaly gray to red-brown fissured bark
globicephala melaena;small dark-colored whaled of united states atlantic coast. the largest male acts as pilot or leader for the school
trade rat;any of several bushy-tailed rodents of the genus neotoma of western north america. hoards food and other objects
true flycatcher;any of a large group of small songbirds that feed on insects taken on the wing
carinate bird;birds having keeled breastbones for attachment of flight muscles
swamp candleberry;deciduous aromatic shrub of eastern north america with gray-green wax-coated berries
multiprocessor;a computer that uses two or more processing units under integrated control
viola canina;old world leafy-stemmed blue-flowered violet
pouched mouse;any of numerous small sharp-nosed insectivorous marsupials superficially resembling mice or rats
crooked stemmed aster;a variety of aster
clitocybe dealbata;a small poisonous agaric. has a dry white cap with crowded gills and a short stalk
habenaria albiflora;bog orchid of eastern north america with a spike of pure white fringed flowers
oca;south american wood sorrel cultivated for its edible tubers
bog moss;any of various pale or ashy mosses of the genus sphagnum whose decomposed remains form peat
turbofan;a turbine drives air to the burner
quercus macrocarpa;medium to large deciduous oak of central and eastern north america with ovoid acorns deeply immersed in large fringed cups. yields tough close-grained wood
whistling marmot;large north american mountain marmot
eumetopias jubatus;largest sea lion. of the north pacific
grass;narrow-leaved green herbage: grown as lawns. used as pasture for grazing animals. cut and dried as hay
galleria mellonella;moth whose larvae live in and feed on bee honeycombs
afghan hound;tall graceful breed of hound with a long silky coat. native to the near east
silverlace;shrubby perennial of the canary islands having white flowers and leaves and hairy stems covered with dust-like down. sometimes placed in genus chrysanthemum
schoolmaster;food fish of warm caribbean and atlantic waters
brown algae;algae having the chlorophyll masked by brown and yellow pigments
wild lupine;stout perennial of eastern and central north america having palmate leaves and showy racemose blue flowers
frost fish;long-bodied marine fishes having a long whiplike scaleless body and sharp teeth. closely related to snake_mackerel
pollard;a tree with limbs cut back to promote a more bushy growth of foliage
boys and girls;eurafrican annual naturalized in america as a weed. formerly dried for use as a purgative, diuretic or antisyphilitic
giant buttercup;spectacular perennial native of wet montane grasslands of peru. formerly included in genus ranunculus
field poppy;annual european poppy common in grain fields and often cultivated
tapioca plant;cassava with long tuberous edible roots and soft brittle stems. used especially to make cassiri (an intoxicating drink) and tapioca
fly orchid;any of several dwarf creeping orchids with small bizarre insectlike hairy flowers on slender stalks
birthroot;trillium of eastern north america having malodorous pink to purple flowers and an astringent root used in fold medicine especially to ease childbirth
pipewort;aquatic perennial of north america and ireland and hebrides having translucent green leaves in a basal spiral and dense buttonlike racemes of minute white flowers
abies fraseri;small fast-growing but short-lived fir of southern alleghenies similar to balsam fir but with very short leaves
hemerobiid;small dark-colored lacewing fly
european raspberry;the common european raspberry. fruit red or orange
banded stilt;web-footed australian stilt with reddish-brown pectoral markings
mockernut;smooth-barked north american hickory with 7 to 9 leaflets bearing a hard-shelled edible nut
acer macrophyllum;maple of western north america having large 5-lobed leaves orange in autumn
stonecress;any old world herb of the genus aethionema. native of sunny limestone habitats
ulmus crassifolia;elm of southern united states and mexico having spreading pendulous corky branches
guinea gold vine;any of several australasian evergreen vines widely cultivated in warm regions for their large bright yellow single flowers
jack salmon;pike-like freshwater perches
salmonberry;creeping raspberry of north temperate regions with yellow or orange berries
parthenocissus quinquefolia;common north american vine with compound leaves and bluish-black berrylike fruit
motherwort;bitter old world herb of hedgerows and woodland margins having toothed leaves and white or pale pink flowers
apios tuberosa;a north american vine with fragrant blossoms and edible tubers. important food crop of native americans
lastingness;permanence by virtue of the power to resist stress or force. 'they advertised the durability of their products'
mountain birch;birch of western united states resembling the paper birch but having brownish bark
gardenia jasminoides;evergreen shrub widely cultivated for its large fragrant waxlike white flowers and glossy leaves
pachouli;small east indian shrubby mint. fragrant oil from its leaves is used in perfumes
red admiral;of temperate europe and asia. having black wings with red and white markings
strawworm;caddisfly larva. constructs a case of silk covered with sand or plant debris
gray whale;medium-sized grayish-black whale of the north pacific
oxlip;eurasian primrose with yellow flowers clustered in a one-sided umbel
silver wattle;evergreen australasian tree having white or silvery bark and young leaves and yellow flowers
diving duck;any of various ducks of esp. bays and estuaries that dive for their food
alsophila pometaria;north american moth with gray-winged males and wingless females. larvae are fall cankerworms
bladderpod;any of several plants of the genus physaria having racemose yellow flowers and inflated pods
porker;a pig fattened to provide meat
cotton rose;chinese shrub or small tree having white or pink flowers becoming deep red at night. widely cultivated. naturalized in southeastern united states
policeman bird;large mostly white australian stork
obeche;large west african tree having large palmately lobed leaves and axillary cymose panicles of small white flowers and one-winged seeds. yields soft white to pale yellow wood
windflower;any woodland plant of the genus anemone grown for its beautiful flowers and whorls of dissected leaves
looper;small hairless caterpillar having legs on only its front and rear segments. mostly larvae of moths of the family geometridae
neotoma floridana;large grayish-brown woodrat of the southeastern united states
belladonna lily;amaryllis of south africa often cultivated for its fragrant white or rose flowers
chilean flameflower;grown for outstanding display of brilliant usually scarlet-crimson flowers. andes
colorado four o clock;wildflower having vibrant deep pink tubular evening-blooming flowers. found in sandy and desert areas from southern california to southern colorado and into mexico
marsh elder;any of various coarse shrubby plants of the genus iva with small greenish flowers. common in moist areas (as coastal salt marshes) of eastern and central north america
japanese persimmon;small deciduous asiatic tree bearing large red or orange edible astringent fruit
salamandra salamandra;a kind of european salamander
onion yellow dwarf virus;the virus that produces stunting and yellowing of the leaves of onion plants
carya aquatica;hickory of southern united states having many narrow leaflets and rather bitter nuts
malacopterygian;any fish of the superorder malacopterygii
carya illinoinsis;tree of southern united states and mexico cultivated for its nuts
veronica chamaedrys;old world plant with axillary racemes of blue-and-white flowers
croton;tropical asiatic shrub. source of croton_oil
pagoda tree;tall sparingly branched conical tree having large fragrant yellow flowers with white centers
water hen;any of various small aquatic birds of the genus gallinula distinguished from rails by a frontal shield and a resemblance to domestic hens
western mugwort;perennial cottony-white herb of southwestern united states
oregon grape;small shrub with gray-green leaves and yellow flowers followed by glaucous blue berries
frankliniella fusca;injurious to growing tobacco and peanuts
thresher shark;large pelagic shark of warm seas with a whiplike tail used to round up small fish on which to feed
actinidia deliciosa;climbing vine native to china. cultivated in new zealand for its fuzzy edible green-meated fruit
pacific plum;shrub of united states pacific coast bearing small red insipid fruit
western wood pewee;small flycatcher of western north america
solidago sempervirens;vigorous showy goldenrod common along eastern and gulf coasts of north america
instar;an insect or other arthropod between molts
forget me not;small perennial herb having bright blue or white flowers
bidens coronata;north american bur marigold with large flowers
pleuropneumonialike organism;antibiotic-resistant mycoplasma causing a kind of pneumonia in humans
common bearberry;evergreen mat-forming shrub of north america and northern eurasia having small white flowers and red berries. leaves turn red in autumn
allgood;european plant naturalized in north america. often collected from the wild as a potherb
large civet;common civet of india and southeast asia
gemsbok;large south african oryx with a broad black band along its flanks
tupelo;any of several gum trees of swampy areas of north america
creamcups;california plant with small pale yellow flowers
soybean;erect bushy hairy annual herb having trifoliate leaves and purple to pink flowers. extensively cultivated for food and forage and soil improvement but especially for its nutritious oil-rich seeds. native to asia
lacquer tree;small asiatic tree yielding a toxic exudate from which lacquer is obtained
plautus alle;small short-billed auk abundant in arctic regions
common zebra;of the plains of central and eastern africa
celery;widely cultivated herb with aromatic leaf stalks that are eaten raw or cooked
palas;east indian tree bearing a profusion of intense vermilion velvet-textured blooms and yielding a yellow dye
beaugregory;blue-and-yellow damselfish of bermuda florida and west indies
dicamptodon ensatus;large (to 7 inches) salamander of western north america
snake doctor;slender-bodied non-stinging insect having iridescent wings that are outspread at rest. adults and nymphs feed on mosquitoes etc.
scaup;diving ducks of north america having a bluish-gray bill
canadian hemlock;common forest tree of the eastern united states and canada. used especially for pulpwood
impulse turbine;a turbine that is driven by jets direct against the blades
jasminum mesnyi;evergreen rambling yellow-flowered shrub of western china
wombat;burrowing herbivorous australian marsupials about the size of a badger
galeopsis tetrahit;coarse bristly eurasian plant with white or reddish flowers and foliage resembling that of a nettle. common as a weed in united states
laurel cherry;frequently cultivated eurasian evergreen shrub or small tree having showy clusters of white flowers and glossy foliage and yielding oil similar to bitter almond oil
japanese oyster;large native of japan introduced along united states pacific coast. candidate for introduction in chesapeake bay
chelonia mydas;large tropical turtle with greenish flesh used for turtle soup
herba impia;(literally an undutiful herb) a variety of cotton rose
non dedicated file server;(computer science) a file server that can be used simultaneously as a workstation
coast live oak;highly variable often shrubby evergreen oak of coastal zone of western north america having small thick usually spiny-toothed dark-green leaves
tylenchus tritici;small roundworm parasitic on wheat
finger grass;grasses with creeping stems that root freely. a pest in lawns
buttercup squash;plant bearing somewhat drum-shaped fruit having dark green rind with grayish markings
iris florentina;german iris having large white flowers with lavender-tinged falls and a fragrant rhizome
quercus imbricaria;small deciduous tree of eastern and central united states having shining laurel-like leaves. wood used in western states for shingles
black willow;north american shrubby willow having dark bark and linear leaves growing close to streams and lakes
fraxinella;eurasian perennial herb with white flowers that emit flammable vapor in hot weather
dipsosaurus dorsalis;small long-tailed lizard of arid areas of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico
cyprinus carpio;large old world freshwater bottom-feeding fish introduced into europe from asia. inhabits ponds and sluggish streams and often raised for food. introduced into united states where it has become a pest
mud midget;having narrow flat sickle-shaped submerged fronds. north america
talipot palm;tall palm of southern india and sri lanka with gigantic leaves used as umbrellas and fans or cut into strips for writing paper
big leaf maple;maple of western north america having large 5-lobed leaves orange in autumn
jenny;female donkey
cascades frog;mountain frog found near water. of united states northwest to california
yellow iris;common yellow-flowered iris of europe and north africa, naturalized in united states and often cultivated
english lavender;aromatic mediterranean shrub widely cultivated for its lilac flowers which are dried and used in sachets
common calamint;mint-scented perennial of central and southern europe
sweet fern;mat-forming lithophytic or terrestrial fern with creeping rootstocks and large pinnatifid fronds found throughout north america and europe and africa and east asia
strymon melinus;larvae are pests of various economic plants
cattleya citrina;mexican epiphytic orchid with glaucous gray-green leaves and lemon- to golden-yellow flowers appearing only partially opened. sometimes placed in genus cattleya
running pop;tropical american passion flower with finely dissected bracts. stems malodorous when crushed
wild radish;eurasian weed having yellow or mauve or white flowers and podlike fruits
oak chestnut;a tree of the genus castanopsis
grunt;medium-sized tropical marine food fishes that utter a grunting sound when caught
common moonseed;a woody vine of eastern north america having large oval leaves and small white flowers and purple to blue-black fruits
vibrion;curved rodlike motile bacterium
puccinia graminis;rust fungus that attacks wheat
reedbird;migratory american songbird
dictamnus alba;eurasian perennial herb with white flowers that emit flammable vapor in hot weather
stizolobium deeringiana;annual semi-woody vine of asia having long clusters of purplish flowers and densely hairy pods. cultivated in southern united states for green manure and grazing
lepidobotrys;african tree often classified in other families. similar to the costa rican caracolito in wood structure as well as in fruit and flowers and leaves and seeds
redwood penstemon;low branching dark green shrub with bunches of brick-red flowers at ends of branches. coastal ranges and foothills of northern california
lutra lutra;otter found in europe and asia
pimpinella anisum;native to egypt but cultivated widely for its aromatic seeds and the oil from them used medicinally and as a flavoring in cookery
sorghum vulgare technicum;tall grasses grown for the elongated stiff-branched panicle used for brooms and brushes
crucifix fish;catfish of the caribbean area
mistletoe;old world parasitic shrub having branching greenish stems with leathery leaves and waxy white glutinous berries. the traditional mistletoe of christmas
smyrnium olusatrum;european herb somewhat resembling celery widely naturalized in britain coastal regions and often cultivated as a potherb
laccopetalum giganteum;spectacular perennial native of wet montane grasslands of peru. formerly included in genus ranunculus
centropistes striata;bluish black-striped sea bass of the atlantic coast of the united states
felis wiedi;small spotted wildcat found from texas to brazil
jerusalem thorn;spiny tree having dark red edible fruits
llama;wild or domesticated south american cud-chewing animal related to camels but smaller and lacking a hump
haematobia irritans;small black european fly introduced into north america. sucks blood from cattle especially at the base of the horn
eelpout;elongate freshwater cod of northern europe and asia and north america having barbels around its mouth
phoradendron serotinum;the traditional mistletoe of christmas in america: grows on deciduous trees and can severely weaken the host plant
sugar corn;corn whose young ears are sweet and suitable for eating as a vegetable
ligustrum vulgare;deciduous semi-evergreen shrub used for hedges
parnassia fimbriata;bog plant with broadly heart-shaped basal leaves and cream or white saucer-shaped flowers with fringed petals. west of rocky mountains from alaska to new mexico
locust tree;any of various hard-wooded trees of the family leguminosae
prionotus carolinus;large searobin. found from nova scotia to florida
smilax;fragile twining plant of south africa with bright green flattened stems and glossy foliage popular as a floral decoration
driftfish;larger driftfishes of eastern atlantic from ny area to northern gulf of mexico
adobe lily;california herb with pinkish purple flowers
silk cotton tree;massive tropical tree with deep ridges on its massive trunk and bearing large pods of seeds covered with silky floss. source of the silky kapok fiber
bristly oxtongue;widespread european weed with spiny tongue-shaped leaves and yellow flowers. naturalized in united states
common ragweed;annual weed with finely divided foliage and spikes of green flowers. common in north america. introduced elsewhere accidentally
zebrawood tree;any of various trees or shrubs having mottled or striped wood
hylobates syndactylus;large black gibbon of sumatra having the 2nd and 3rd toes partially united by a web
oakleaf goosefoot;annual european plant with spikes of greenish flowers and leaves that are white-hairy beneath. common as a weed in north america
orange horseshoe bat;a common bat of northwestern australia having orange or yellow fur
peewit;small olive-colored woodland flycatchers of eastern north america
tattler;any of several long-legged shorebirds having a loud whistling cry
wood ibis;old world wood ibis
citrus reticulata;shrub or small tree having flattened globose fruit with very sweet aromatic pulp and thin yellow-orange to flame-orange rind that is loose and easily removed. native to southeastern asia
green corn;corn whose young ears are sweet and suitable for eating as a vegetable
avena sativa;widely cultivated in temperate regions for its edible grains
lamb succory;small european herb with small yellow flowers
spanish oyster plant;a golden thistle of southwestern europe cultivated for its edible sweet roots and edible leaves and stalks. its yellow flowers are used as a substitute for saffron
groenendael;black-coated sheep dog with a heavily plumed tail
trumpeter;large pure white wild swan of western north america having a sonorous cry
hydnocarpus laurifolia;leathery-leaved tree of western india bearing round fruits with brown densely-hairy rind enclosing oily pulp that yields hydnocarpus oil
ulmus serotina;autumn-flowering elm of southeastern united states
panama redwood;large erect shrub of columbia having large odd-pinnate leaves with large leaflets and axillary racemes of fragrant yellow flowers
hubbard squash;any of several winter squash plants producing large grayish-green football-shaped fruit with a rough warty rind
potamogeton americanus;pondweed with floating leaves. of northern united states and europe
salix alba vitellina;european willow having grayish leaves and yellow-orange twigs used in basketry
tube nosed fruit bat;any of various fruit bats of the genus nyctimene distinguished by nostrils drawn out into diverging tubes
ibizan podenco;breed of slender agile medium-sized hound found chiefly in the balearic islands. said to have been bred originally by the pharaohs of ancient egypt
macadamia integrifolia;medium-sized tree of eastern australia having creamy-white flowers
elaterid beetle;any of various widely distributed beetles
cone nosed bug;large bloodsucking bug
bombina bombina;toad of central and eastern europe having red or orange patches on its underside
american barberry;deciduous shrub of eastern north america whose leaves turn scarlet in autumn and having racemes of yellow flowers followed by ellipsoid glossy red berries
citrus bergamia;small tree with pear-shaped fruit whose oil is used in perfumery. italy
rocket;erect european annual often grown as a salad crop to be harvested when young and tender
scincid;alert agile lizard with reduced limbs and an elongated body covered with shiny scales. more dependent on moisture than most lizards. found in tropical regions worldwide
sun pitcher;any of several herbs of guiana highlands having racemes of nodding white or pink flowers. trap and digest insects in pitcher-shaped leaves with spoon-shaped caps
pyrausta nubilalis;larva of the european corn borer moth. a serious pest of maize
bushytail woodrat;any of several bushy-tailed rodents of the genus neotoma of western north america. hoards food and other objects
aethusa cynapium;european weed naturalized in america that resembles parsley but causes nausea and poisoning when eaten
syringa villosa;lilac of northern china having ovate leaves and profuse early summer rose-lilac flowers
boarfish;fish with a projecting snout
american toad;common toad of america
mountain goat;sure-footed mammal of mountainous northwestern north america
grainy club;a variety of grainy_club_mushrooms
chenfish;small silvery marine food fish found off california
power shovel;a machine for excavating
baboon;large terrestrial monkeys having doglike muzzles
laver;seaweed with edible translucent crinkly green fronds
bogmat;having narrow flat sickle-shaped submerged fronds. north america
prunus demissa;chokecherry of western united states
carolina chickadee;southern united states chickadee similar to the blackcap but smaller
bar room plant;evergreen perennial with large handsome basal leaves. grown primarily as a foliage houseplant
nut sedge;a widely distributed perennial sedge having small edible nutlike tubers
flacourtia indica;small shrubby tree of madagascar cultivated in tropical regions as a hedge plant and for its deep red acid fruits resembling small plums
derris elliptica;woody vine having bright green leaves and racemes of rose-tinted white flowers. the swollen roots contain rotenone
templetonia retusa;australian shrub having simple obovate leaves and brilliant scarlet flowers
nephelium lappaceum;malayan tree bearing spiny red fruit
fundulus majalis;black-barred fish of bays and coastal marshes of united states atlantic and gulf coasts
velvetweed;tall annual herb or subshrub of tropical asia having velvety leaves and yellow flowers and yielding a strong fiber. naturalized in southeastern europe and united states
aglaomorpha meyeniana;epiphytic fern with large fronds. taiwan and philippines
silverberry;deciduous unarmed north american shrub with silvery leaves and fruits
common box;large slow-growing multistemmed evergreen shrub or small tree. extensively used for hedges or borders and topiary figures
amaranthus hybridus erythrostachys;tall showy tropical american annual having hairy stems and long spikes of usually red flowers above leaves deeply flushed with purple. seeds often used as cereal
babirusa;indonesian wild pig with enormous curved canine teeth
coffee fern;evergreen fern of california and baja california
jackfruit tree;east indian tree cultivated for its immense edible fruit and seeds
oxyuranus scutellatus;large highly venomous snake of northeastern australia
european magpie;common european magpie
honey eater;australasian bird with tongue and bill adapted for extracting nectar
candytuft;any of various flowering plants of the genus iberis cultivated for their showy clusters of white to red or purple flowers. native to mediterranean region
micromyx minutus;small reddish-brown eurasian mouse inhabiting e.g. cornfields
silk tree;attractive domed or flalt-topped asiatic tree having bipinnate leaves and flowers with long silky stamens
dall s sheep;large white wild sheep of northwestern canada and alaska
prunus cuneata;small straggling american cherry growing on sandy soil and having minute scarcely edible purplish-black fruit
gallberry;evergreen holly of eastern north america with oblong leathery leaves and small black berries
pterosaur;extinct flying reptile of the jurassic and cretaceous having a birdlike beak and membranous wings supported by the very long fourth digit of each forelimb
comma butterfly;anglewing butterfly with a comma-shaped mark on the underside of each hind wing
myxobacteria;bacteria that form colonies in self-produced slime. inhabit moist soils or decaying plant matter or animal waste
sagebrush lizard;a ground dweller that prefers open ground and scattered low bushes. of united states west between rocky and sierra nevada mountains
turdus viscivorus;large european thrush that feeds on mistletoe berries
tumbler;pigeon that executes backward somersaults in flight or on the ground
calamintha nepeta;low-growing strongly aromatic perennial herb of southern europe to gb naturalized in united states
masdevallia;any of numerous orchids of the genus masdevallia. tufted evergreen often diminutive plants whose flowers in a remarkable range of colors are usually tricornlike with sepals fused at the base to form a tube
argentinosaur;huge herbivorous dinosaur of cretaceous found in argentina
club moss;primitive evergreen mosslike plant with spores in club-shaped strobiles
lycopodium alopecuroides;ground pine thickly covered with bristly leaves. widely distributed in barren sandy or peaty moist coastal regions of eastern and southeastern united states
daphne laureola;bushy eurasian shrub with glossy leathery oblong leaves and yellow-green flowers
salix amygdalina;old world willow with light green leaves cultivated for use in basketry
ipomoea coccinea;annual herb having scarlet flowers. the eastern united states
eriophorum angustifolium;having densely tufted white cottony or downlike glumes
prairie gourd;perennial vine of dry parts of central and southwestern united states and mexico having small hard mottled green inedible fruit
glandular labrador tea;rocky mt. shrub similar to ledum groenlandicum
zea mays everta;corn having small ears and kernels that burst when exposed to dry heat
roach;any of numerous chiefly nocturnal insects. some are domestic pests
sporozoan;parasitic spore-forming protozoan
dalbergia stevensonii;central american tree yielding a valuable dark streaked rosewood
whitethorn;thorny eurasian shrub of small tree having dense clusters of white to scarlet flowers followed by deep red berries. established as an escape in eastern north america
hog millet;extensively cultivated in europe and asia for its grain and in united states sometimes for forage
shittim;shrubby thorny deciduous tree of southeastern united states with white flowers and small black drupaceous fruit
young bird;a bird that is still young
liza;similar to the striped mullet and takes its place in the caribbean region
bidens bipinnata;common bur marigold of the eastern united states
cytesis proliferus;shrub of canary islands having bristle-tipped oblanceolate leaves. used as cattle fodder
daisy leaved grape fern;of north america and eurasia
asclepias tuberosa;erect perennial of eastern and southern united states having showy orange flowers
water cabbage;pantropical floating plant forming a rosette of wedge-shaped leaves. a widespread weed in rivers and lakes
meadow beauty;any of several plants of the genus rhexia usually having pink-purple to magenta flowers. eastern north america
homarus capensis;small lobster of southern africa
redfin pickerel;small but gamy pickerel of atlantic coastal states
lady s thistle;tall old world biennial thistle with large clasping white-blotched leaves and purple flower heads. naturalized in california and south america
scoke;tall coarse perennial american herb having small white flowers followed by blackish-red berries on long drooping racemes. young fleshy stems are edible. berries and root are poisonous
portuguese cypress;tall spreading evergreen native to mexico having drooping branches. believed to have been introduced into portugal from goa its indian territory
guide dog;a dog trained to guide the blind
peach bells;perennial european bellflower with racemose white or blue flowers
silene dioica;biennial european catchfly having red or pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus lychnis
mountain maple;small shrubby maple of eastern north america. scarlet in autumn
daily dew;any of various bog plants of the genus drosera having leaves covered with sticky hairs that trap and digest insects. cosmopolitan in distribution
souari nut;large south american evergreen tree trifoliate leaves and drupes with nutlike seeds used as food and a source of cooking oil
american plaice;large american food fish
coryphantha;a cactus of the genus coryphantha
banded adder;sluggish krait banded with black and yellow
race runner;very swift lizard of eastern and central united states
mako;powerful mackerel shark of the atlantic and pacific
brute;a living organism characterized by voluntary movement
ilang ilang;evergreen asian tree with aromatic greenish-yellow flowers yielding a volatile oil. widely grown in the tropics as an ornamental
american pasqueflower;short hairy perennial with early spring blue-violet or lilac flowers. north america and siberia
opossum wood;medium-sized tree of west virginia to florida and texas
flint corn;corn having kernels with a hard outer layer enclosing the soft endosperm
bennet;avens of virginia having pale or greenish yellow flowers
hemp willow;willow with long flexible twigs used in basketry
magnolia soulangiana;large deciduous shrub or small tree having large open rosy to purplish flowers. native to asia. prized as an ornamental in eastern north america
golden pea;western united states bushy herb having yellow pealike flowers
amanita mappa;agaric often confused with the death cup
pyrus communis;old world tree having sweet gritty-textured juicy fruit. widely cultivated in many varieties
wood violet;common violet of the eastern united states with large pale blue or purple flowers resembling pansies
psittacus erithacus;commonly domesticated gray parrot with red-and-black tail and white face. native to equatorial africa
wild indigo;any of several plants of the genus baptisia
red bat;north american brick or rusty red bat with hairs tipped with white
montia lamprosperma;small indian lettuce of northern regions
purple clover;erect to decumbent short-lived perennial having red-purple to pink flowers. the most commonly grown forage clover
golden glow;very tall branching herb with showy much-doubled yellow flower heads
blackbeetle;dark brown cockroach originally from orient now nearly cosmopolitan in distribution
euonymus atropurpureus;deciduous shrub having purple capsules enclosing scarlet seeds
basil mint;perennial herb of the eastern united states having inconspicuous greenish flowers and narrow leaves that are very aromatic when bruised
shamrock pea;trailing trifoliate asiatic and african herb having cobalt blue flowers
russian vine;twining perennial vine having racemes of fragrant greenish flowers. western china to russia
egretta caerulea;small bluish-gray heron of the westrn hemisphere
mirasol;annual sunflower grown for silage and for its seeds which are a source of oil. common throughout united states and much of north america
margay;small spotted wildcat found from texas to brazil
agriocharis ocellata;wild turkey of central and northern south america
wild leek;coarse old world perennial having a large bulb and tall stalk of greenish purple-tinged flowers. widely naturalized
bengal bean;annual semi-woody vine of asia having long clusters of purplish flowers and densely hairy pods. cultivated in southern united states for green manure and grazing
silk oak;any of several australian timber trees having usually fernlike foliage and mottled wood used in cabinetry and veneering
pisanosaurus;primitive dinosaur found in argentina
erica arborea;evergreen treelike mediterranean shrub having fragrant white flowers in large terminal panicles and hard woody roots used to make tobacco pipes
upland cotton;native tropical american plant now cultivated in the united states yielding short-staple cotton
winged pea;tuberous-rooted twining annual vine bearing clusters of purplish flowers and pods with four jagged wings. old world tropics
windowpane;very thin translucent flounder of the atlantic coast of north america
common ginger;tropical asian plant widely cultivated for its pungent root. source of gingerroot and powdered ginger
salix pendulina blanda;hybrid willow usually not strongly weeping in habit
turkey cock;male turkey
zinnia grandiflora;subshrub having short leafy stems and numerous small flower heads with nearly round yellow-orange rays. arizona south to mexico and east to kansas
wheat eel;small roundworm parasitic on wheat
micteria americana;american stork resembling the true ibises in having a curved bill. inhabits wooded swamps of new world tropics
english plantain;an old world plantain with long narrow ribbed leaves widely established in temperate regions
wild pea;any of various plants of the family leguminosae that usually grow like vines
helianthemum canadense;perennial of the eastern united states having early solitary yellow flowers followed by late petalless flowers. so-called because ice crystals form on it during first frosts
yellow warbler;yellow-throated american wood warbler
basil balm;perennial herb of north america (new york to illinois and mountains of alaska) having aromatic leaves and clusters of yellowish-pink flower-like balls
nekton;the aggregate of actively swimming animals in a body of water ranging from microscopic organisms to whales
bok choi;asiatic plant grown for its cluster of edible white stalks with dark green leaves
shore pine;shrubby 2-needled pine of coastal northwestern united states. red to yellow-brown bark fissured into small squares
bearberry;chiefly evergreen subshrubs of northern to arctic areas
four lined leaf bug;yellow or orange leaf bug with four black stripes down the back. widespread in central and eastern north america
dunnock;small brownish european songbird
indian paintbrush;any of various plants of the genus castilleja having dense spikes of hooded flowers with brightly colored bracts
gerea canescens;slender hairy plant with few leaves and golden-yellow flower heads. sandy desert areas of southeastern california to southwestern utah and western arizona and northwestern mexico
angrecum;any of various spectacular orchids of the genus angraecum having 2-ranked dark green leathery leaves and usually nocturnally scented white or ivory flowers
ground fir;a variety of clubmoss
honeyflower;erect bushy shrub of eastern australia having terminal clusters of red flowers yielding much nectar
gasterophilus intestinalis;parasitic chiefly on horses
emerald shiner;small blunt-nosed fish of great lakes and mississippi valley with a greenish luster
negro vine;twining vine with hairy foliage and dark purplish-brown flowers
yellow milkwort;bog plant of pine barrens of southeastern united states having spikes of irregular yellow-orange flowers
periwinkle;edible marine gastropod
eranthis hyemalis;small old world perennial herb grown for its bright yellow flowers which appear in early spring often before snow is gone
gasoline engine;an internal-combustion engine that burns gasoline. most automobiles are driven by gasoline engines
bean beetle;introduced into the united states from mexico. feeds on the foliage of the bean plant
angiocarp;tree bearing fruit enclosed in a shell or involucre or husk
echinus esculentus;a sea urchin that can be eaten
chadlock;weedy eurasian plant often a pest in grain fields
spirillum;spirally twisted elongate rodlike bacteria usually living in stagnant water
poinsettia;tropical american plant having poisonous milk and showy tapering usually scarlet petallike leaves surrounding small yellow flowers
pike;any of several elongate long-snouted freshwater game and food fishes widely distributed in cooler parts of the northern hemisphere
selenicereus grandiflorus;tropical american climbing cactus having triangular branches. often cultivated for its large showy night-blooming flowers followed by yellow red-streaked fruits
ground cedar;a variety of clubmoss
golden marguerite;eurasian perennial herb with hairy divided leaves and yellow flowers. naturalized in north america
lachnolaimus maximus;large wrasse of western atlantic. head of male resembles a pig's snout
spathiphyllum;any of various plants of the genus spathiphyllum having a white or green spathe and a spite of fragrant flowers and often cultivated as an ornamental
traveler s tree;giant treelike plant having edible nuts and leafstalks that yield a refreshing drink of clear watery sap. reputedly an emergency source of water for travelers
varmint;any usually predatory wild animal considered undesirable. e.g. coyote
chelonian;a reptile of the order chelonia
dillenia;any of several evergreen trees or shrubs of the genus dillenia grown for their foliage and nodding magnolialike flowers which are followed by fruit that is used in curries and jellies and preserves
microtus pennsylvaticus;widely distributed in grasslands of northern united states and canada
roccella tinctoria;a source of the dye archil and of litmus
mourning cloak butterfly;of temperate regions. having dark purple wings with yellow borders
shagbark;north american hickory having loose gray shaggy bark and edible nuts
ling;common old world heath represented by many varieties. low evergreen grown widely in the northern hemisphere
hottentot bread vine;south african vine having a massive rootstock covered with deeply fissured bark
dickybird;(informal) small bird. adults talking to children sometimes call small birds dickeybirds
earth ball;any of various highly prized edible subterranean fungi of the genus tuber. grow naturally in southwestern europe
jerusalem cricket;large wingless nocturnal grasshopper that burrows in loose soil along the united states pacific coast
cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus;common savannah monkey with greenish-gray back and yellow tail
virginia spring beauty;small cormous perennial grown for its low rosette of succulent foliage and racemes of pink-tinged white flowers. eastern north america
custard apple;any of several tropical american trees bearing fruit with soft edible pulp
bangtail;a horse bred for racing
page at a time printer;a printer that prints one page at a time
water flea;minute freshwater crustacean having a round body enclosed in a transparent shell. moves about like a flea by means of hairy branched antennae
caranday;south american palm yielding a wax similar to carnauba wax
common moonwort;of america and eurasia and australia
anisotremus surinamensis;dusky gray food fish found from louisiana and florida southward
diospyros kurzii;large asiatic tree having hard marbled zebrawood
vicia faba;old world upright plant grown especially for its large flat edible seeds but also as fodder
duplicidentata;in former classifications considered a suborder of rodentia coextensive with the order lagomorpha: gnawing animals
aster turbinellis;violet-flowered perennial aster of central united states having solitary heads
western chokecherry;chokecherry of western united states
geometrid;slender-bodied broad-winged moth whose larvae are called measuring worms
ophiodon elongatus;food fish of northern pacific waters related to greenlings
viola rostrata;violet of eastern north america having lilac-purple flowers with a long slender spur
lemon sole;european flatfish highly valued as food
loquat tree;evergreen tree of warm regions having fuzzy yellow olive-sized fruit with a large free stone. native to china and japan
lyrurus mlokosiewiczi;of w. asia
parsley haw;southern united states hawthorn with pinnately lobed leaves
lyreflower;garden plant having deep-pink drooping heart-shaped flowers
new world flycatcher;large american birds that characteristically catch insects on the wing
meloid;beetle that produces a secretion that blisters the skin
desert iguana;small long-tailed lizard of arid areas of southwestern united states and northwestern mexico
sargassum;brown algae with rounded bladders forming dense floating masses in tropical atlantic waters as in the sargasso sea
bitterroot;showy succulent ground-hugging plant of rocky mountains regions having deep to pale pink flowers and fleshy farinaceous roots. the montana state flower
sardina pilchardus;small fishes found in great schools along coasts of europe. smaller and rounder than herring
grubby;small sculpin of the coast of new england
balaenoptera borealis;similar to but smaller than the finback whale
solanum pseudocapsicum;small south american shrub cultivated as a houseplant for its abundant ornamental but poisonous red or yellow cherry-sized fruit
leprosy bacillus;cause of leprosy
canistel;tropical tree of florida and west indies yielding edible fruit
swadust mushroom;an edible agaric found in piles of hardwood sawdust. the caps are black and coarsely wrinkled
hollyhock;any of various plants of the genus althaea. similar to but having smaller flowers than genus alcea
bastard yellowwood;medium-sized tree of south africa
cercis canadenis;small shrubby tree of eastern north america similar to the judas tree having usually pink flowers. found in damp sheltered underwood
bermuda lily;tall lily have large white trumpet-shaped flowers that bloom in the spring
shrewmouse;small mouselike long-snouted mammal related to moles
napier s bones;a set of graduated rods formerly used to do multiplication and division by a method invented by john napier
matricaria oreades;mat-forming perennial herb of asia minor. sometimes included in genus matricaria
sponge mushroom;an edible and choice morel with a globular to elongate head with an irregular pattern of pits and ridges
tall sunflower;very tall american perennial of central and the eastern united states to canada having edible tuberous roots
pilularia globulifera;european water fern found around margins of bodies of water or in wet acid soil having small globose sporocarps
bee moth;moth whose larvae live in and feed on bee honeycombs
saffron crocus;old world crocus having purple or white flowers with aromatic pungent orange stigmas used in flavoring food
clocks;european weed naturalized in southwestern united states and mexico having reddish decumbent stems with small fernlike leaves and small deep reddish-lavender flowers followed by slender pinlike fruits that stick straight up. often grown for forage
carpenter bee;large solitary bee that lays eggs in tunnels bored into wood or plant stems
finger grass;any grass of the genus chloris. occurs in short grassland especially on waste ground or poor soils
salix tristis;willow shrub of dry places in the eastern united states having long narrow leaves canescent beneath
bush shrike;african shrike
carrier pigeon;a homing pigeon used to carry messages
passiflora edulis;brazilian passionflower cultivated for its deep purple fruit
red backed mouse;any of several voles of mountainous regions of eurasia and america
grindelia robusta;perennial gumweed of california and baja california
bear oak;shrubby oak of southeastern united states usually forming dense thickets
senecio bigelovii;plant with erect leafy stems bearing clusters of rayless yellow flower heads on bent individual stalks. moist regions of southwestern united states
glory pea;any of various shrubs or vines of the genus clianthus having compound leaves and pealike red flowers in drooping racemes
snakewood;east indian climbing shrub with twisted limbs and roots resembling serpents
oyster fish;a variety of toadfish
kurrajong;widely distributed tree of eastern australia yielding a tough durable fiber and soft light attractively grained wood. foliage is an important emergency food for cattle
dill;aromatic old world herb having aromatic threadlike foliage and seeds used as seasoning
corncrake;common eurasian rail that frequents grain fields
koala bear;sluggish tailless australian arboreal marsupial with gray furry ears and coat. feeds on eucalyptus leaves and bark
sardinops caerulea;small pilchards common off the pacific coast of north america
hemerocallis flava;a day lily with yellow flowers
lathe;a machine for shaping metal or wood. the workpiece turns about a horizontal axis against a fixed tool
microgramma piloselloides;epiphytic ferns with long rhizomes. tropical america
kaffir;important for human and animal food. growth habit and stem form similar to indian corn but having sawtooth-edged leaves
mytilus edulis;dark-shelled edible mussel that lives attached to rocks
bloodwood tree;deciduous south african tree having large odd-pinnate leaves and profuse fragrant orange-yellow flowers. yields a red juice and heavy strong durable wood
myrtle spurge;poisonous old world spurge. adventive in america. seeds yield a purgative oil
russian cactus;prickly bushy eurasian plant. a troublesome weed in central and western united states
tzetze;blood-sucking african fly. transmits sleeping sickness etc.
pinus monticola;tall pine of western north america with stout blue-green needles. bark is gray-brown with rectangular plates when mature
aptenodytes forsteri;the largest penguin. an antarctic penguin
ravenala madagascariensis;giant treelike plant having edible nuts and leafstalks that yield a refreshing drink of clear watery sap. reputedly an emergency source of water for travelers
king william pine;evergreen of tasmanian mountains having sharp-pointed leaves the curve inward
wyethia ovata;low tufted white-woolly yellow-flowered herb of california
pahautea;evergreen tree of new zealand resembling the kawaka
common barley;grass yielding grain used for for breakfast food, animal feed and in malt beverages
migratory locust;old world locust that travels in vast swarms stripping large areas of vegetation
didelphis virginiana;omnivorous opossum of the eastern united states. noted for feigning death when in danger. esteemed as food in some areas. considered same species as the crab-eating opossum of south america
chinook;large pacific salmon valued as food. adults die after spawning
gorgonian;corals having a horny of calcareous branching skeleton
lygaeid;a true bug: usually bright-colored. pest of cultivated crops and some fruit trees
egyptian paper reed;tall sedge of the nile valley yielding fiber that served many purposes in historic times
wheatgrass;a grass of the genus agropyron
broody;a domestic hen ready to brood
onion louse;injurious to onion plants and sometimes tobacco
serranid fish;marine food sport fishes mainly of warm coastal waters
taxidea taxus;a variety of badger native to america
bergamot mint;perennial aromatic herb of eastern north america having variously colored tubular flowers in dense showy heads
rudderfish;food and game fish around bermuda and florida. often follow ships
click beetle;able to right itself when on its back by flipping into the air with a clicking sound
dwarf astilbe;mat-forming evergreen asiatic plant with finely cut leaves and small pink to burgundy flowers. grown as ground cover
monkey;any of various long-tailed primates (excluding the prosimians)
gaviiform seabird;seabirds of the order gaviiformes
capiz;marine bivalve common in philippine coastal waters characterized by a large thin flat translucent shell
piranga ludoviciana;of western north america. male is black and yellow and orange-red
hall s honeysuckle;a variety of japanese honeysuckle that grows like a vine. established as an aggressive escape in southeastern united states
beef cattle;cattle that are reared for their meat
aralia nudicaulis;common perennial herb having aromatic roots used as a substitute for sarsaparilla. central and eastern north america
herrerasaur;a kind of theropod dinosaur found in argentina
hummingbird moth;any of various moths with long narrow forewings capable of powerful flight and hovering over flowers to feed
french rye;coarse perennial eurasian oatlike grass found on roadside verges and rough grassland and in hay meadows. introduced in north america for forage
white globe lily;globe lily having open branched clusters of egg-shaped white flowers. southern california
bobwhite quail;a popular north american game bird. named for its call
anemone sylvestris;eurasian herb with solitary nodding fragrant white flowers
bird of juno;very large terrestrial southeast asian pheasant often raised as an ornamental bird
king crab;large edible crab of north pacific waters esp. along the coasts of alaska and japan
hound s tongue;biennial shrub of europe and western asia having coarse tongue-shaped leaves and dark reddish-purple flowers
ranunculus glaberrimus;small early-flowering buttercup with shiny yellow flowers of western north america
keteleeria;asiatic conifers resembling firs
pachyrhizus tuberosus;twining plant of amazon basin having large edible roots
milkweed;annual eurasian sow thistle with soft spiny leaves and rayed yellow flower heads
cedar waxwing;widely distributed over temperate north america
tundra swan;swan that nests in tundra regions of the new and old worlds
tradescant s aster;a variety of aster
quercus petraea;deciduous european oak valued for its tough elastic wood
aesculus hippocastanum;tree having palmate leaves and large clusters of white to red flowers followed by brown shiny inedible seeds
eurasian woodcock;short-legged long-billed migratory old world woodcock
grain sorghum;any of several sorghums cultivated primarily for grain
blastomycete;any of various yeastlike budding fungi of the genus blastomyces. cause disease in humans and other animals
bald faced hornet;north american hornet
american crow;common crow of n. america
common chickweed;a common low-growing annual garden weed with small white flowers. cosmopolitan. so-called because it is eaten by chickens
steller s sea cow;extinct large sirenian mammal formerly found near asiatic coast of the bering sea
sausage dog;informal term
sailfish;large pelagic game fish having an elongated upper jaw and long sail-like dorsal fin
goat antelope;bovid related to goats but having antelope-like features: mountain goats. gorals. serows. chamois. gnu goats
araucaria cunninghamii;pine of australia and new guinea. yields a valuable light even-textured wood
knowlton s cactus;small clustering cactus of southwestern united states. a threatened species
nutgrass;a widely distributed perennial sedge having small edible nutlike tubers
sour orange;any of various common orange trees yielding sour or bitter fruit. used as grafting stock
cynoscion regalis;food and game fish of north american coastal waters with a mouth from which hooks easily tear out
selachian;any of numerous fishes of the class chondrichthyes characterized by a cartilaginous skeleton and placoid scales: sharks. rays. skates
graylag;common gray wild goose of europe. ancestor of many domestic breeds
erigeron glaucous;slightly succulent perennial with basal leaves and hairy sticky stems each bearing a solitary flower head with narrow pink or lavender rays. coastal bluffs oregon to southern california
octopus;bottom-living cephalopod having a soft oval body with eight long tentacles
metasequoia;large fast-growing chinese monoecious tree having flat bright-green deciduous leaves and small globular cones. commonly cultivated in united states as an ornamental. known as a fossil before being discovered in china
riveting machine;a machine for driving rivets
red spider;small web-spinning mite. a serious orchard pest
lignum vitae;small evergreen tree of caribbean and southern central america to northern south america. a source of lignum vitae wood, hardest of commercial timbers, and a medicinal resin
microsporidian;parasite of arthropods and fishes that invade and destroy host cells
bindweed;any of several vines of the genera convolvulus and calystegia having a twining habit
european beech;large european beech with minutely-toothed leaves. widely planted as an ornamental in north america
gage;a strong-smelling plant from whose dried leaves a number of euphoriant and hallucinogenic drugs are prepared
parroket;any of numerous small slender long-tailed parrots
whitebait;the edible young of esp. herrings and sprats and smelts
anigozanthus manglesii;sedgelike spring-flowering herb having clustered flowers covered with woolly hairs. australia
pyrola rotundifolia;evergreen with rounded leaves and very fragrant creamy-white flowers. widely distributed in northern parts of old and new worlds
hickory;valuable tough heavy hardwood from various hickory trees
european dewberry;creeping european bramble bearing dewberries
woodruff;any plant of the genus asperula
jack o lantern fungus;a large poisonous agaric with orange caps and narrow clustered stalks. the gills are luminescent
wall rue spleenwort;small delicate spleenwort found on a steep slope (as a wall or cliff) of eurasia and north america
copepod crustacean;minute marine or fresh-water crustaceans usually having six pairs of limbs on the thorax. some abundant in plankton and others parasitic on fish
lithophyte;plant that grows on rocks or stony soil and derives nourishment from the atmosphere
japanese plum;small tree of china and japan bearing large yellow to red plums usually somewhat inferior to european plums in flavor
achillea;any of several plants of the genus achillea native to europe and having small white flowers in flat-topped flower heads
italian cypress;tall eurasian cypress with thin gray bark and ascending branches
genipap fruit;tree of the west indies and northern south america bearing succulent edible orange-sized fruit
helix hortensis;a kind of garden snail
eutherian;mammals having a placenta. all mammals except monotremes and marsupials
cheiranthus allionii;showy erect biennial or short-lived perennial cultivated for its terminal racemes of orange-yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus cheiranthus
sandwort;low-growing herb having clusters of small white-flowers 4-petaled flowers
robolo;a kind of percoid fish
caprimulgus europaeus;old world goatsucker
goat s rue;perennial subshrub of eastern north america having downy leaves yellowish and rose flowers and. source of rotenone
mouser;a cat proficient at mousing
fossa fossa;civet of madagascar
mexican hyssop;erect perennial of mexico having rose to crimson flowers
brussels sprout;plant grown for its stout stalks of edible small green heads resembling diminutive cabbages
matricaria tchihatchewii;low densely tufted perennial herb of turkey having small white flowers. used as a ground cover in dry places. sometimes included in genus matricaria
spreading fleabane;well-branched plant with hairy leaves and stems each with a solitary flower head with narrow white or pink or lavender rays. western north america
antidorcas marsupialis;south african gazelle noted for springing lightly into the air
orontium aquaticum;aquatic plant of the southeastern united states having blue-green leaves and and a club-like spadix covered with tiny yellow flowers
red beech;large tree of australasia
carpodacus mexicanus;small finch originally of the western united states and mexico
hanging geranium;a commonly cultivated trailing south american plant with peltate leaves and rosy flowers
rampion;bellflower of europe and asia and north africa having bluish flowers and an edible tuberous root used with the leaves in salad
prairie berry;weedy nightshade with silvery foliage and violet or blue or white flowers. roundish berry widely used to curdle milk. central united states to south america
bo tree;fig tree of india noted for great size and longevity. lacks the prop roots of the banyan
pastor roseus;glossy black bird with pink back and abdomen. chiefly asian
welwitschia mirabilis;curious plant of arid regions of southwestern africa having a yard-high and yard-wide turniplike trunk with a deep taproot and two large persistent woody straplike leaves growing from the base. living relic of a flora long disappeared. some may be 700-5000 years old
locust;migratory grasshoppers of warm regions having short antennae
otaria byronia;of the southern coast of south america
bath asparagus;old world star of bethlehem having edible young shoots
ragwort;american ragwort with yellow flowers
dalbergia retusa;a valuable timber tree of tropical south america
giant chinkapin;small ornamental evergreen tree of pacific coast whose glossy yellow-green leaves are yellow beneath. bears edible nuts
feather geranium;eurasian aromatic oak-leaved goosefoot with many yellow-green flowers. naturalized north america
umbrellawort;a plant of the genus mirabilis
english ivy;old world vine with lobed evergreen leaves and black berrylike fruits
oxalis;any plant or flower of the genus oxalis
trumpet flower;woody flowering vine of southern united states. stems show a cross in transverse section
chocolate root;erect perennial of north temperate zone having pinnate leaves and few nodding flowers with brown-purple calyx and orange-pink petals
bladderpod;any of several hairy north american herbs having yellow racemose flowers and inflated pods
snail;freshwater or marine or terrestrial gastropod mollusk usually having an external enclosing spiral shell
felis pardalis;nocturnal wildcat of central and south america having a dark-spotted buff-brown coat
blackcap raspberry;raspberry native to eastern north america having black thimble-shaped fruit
vaccinium arboreum;shrub or small tree of eastern united states having black inedible berries
locusta migratoria;old world locust that travels in vast swarms stripping large areas of vegetation
kaki;small deciduous asiatic tree bearing large red or orange edible astringent fruit
acer platanoides;a large eurasian maple tree naturalized in north america. 5-lobed leaves yellow in autumn. cultivated in many varieties
sambucus nigra;common black-fruited shrub or small tree of europe and asia. fruit used for wines and jellies
adenovirus;any of a group of viruses including those that in humans cause upper respiratory infections or infectious pinkeye
spondias purpurea;common tropical american shrub or small tree with purplish fruit
righteyed flounder;flounders with both eyes on the right side of the head
citrus;any of numerous tropical usually thorny evergreen trees of the genus citrus having leathery evergreen leaves and widely cultivated for their juicy edible fruits having leathery aromatic rinds
aepyornis;huge (to 9 ft.) extinct flightless bird of madagascar
acrogen;any flowerless plant such as a fern (pteridophyte) or moss (bryophyte) in which growth occurs only at the tip of the main stem
australopithecus boisei;large-toothed hominid of eastern africa. from 1 to 2 million years ago. formerly zinjanthropus boisei
ribbon worm;soft unsegmented marine worms having a threadlike proboscis and the ability to stretch and contract
calystegia sepium;common eurasian and american wild climber with pink flowers. sometimes placed in genus convolvulus
indian cress;strong-growing annual climber having large flowers of all shades of orange from orange-red to yellowish orange and seeds that are pickled and used like capers
knawel;widely distributed low-growing eurasian herb having narrow leaves and inconspicuous green flowers
thlaspi arvense;foetid eurasian weed having round flat pods. naturalized throughout north america
hymenopteron;insects having two pairs of membranous wings and an ovipositor specialized for stinging or piercing
european elk;large northern deer with enormous flattened antlers in the male. called elk in europe and moose in north america
ringdove;eurasian pigeon with white patches on wings and neck
christmas cactus;epiphytic cactus of brazilian ancestry widely cultivated as a houseplant having jointed flat segments and usually rose-purple flowers that bloom in winter
calluna vulgaris;common old world heath represented by many varieties. low evergreen grown widely in the northern hemisphere
echinoderm;marine invertebrates with tube feet and calcite-covered five-part radially symmetrical bodies
temple orange tree;large citrus tree having large sweet deep orange fruit that is easily peeled. widely cultivated in florida
fumeroot;delicate european herb with grayish leaves and spikes of purplish flowers. formerly used medicinally
fungus gnat;minute blackish gregarious flies destructive to mushrooms and seedlings
mirabilis californica;california four_o'clock with purple-red flowers
papaver argemone;annual old world poppy with orange-red flowers and bristly fruit
japanese spaniel;breed of toy dogs originating in japan having a silky black-and-white or red-and-white coat
meryta sinclairii;small round-headed new zealand tree having large resinous leaves and panicles of green-white flowers
florida selaginella;occurs widely in florida
ragged robin;common perennial native to europe and western asia having usually pink flowers with ragged petals
bos grunniens;large long-haired wild ox of tibet often domesticated
mountain blue berry;erect blueberry of western united states having solitary flowers and somewhat sour berries
spurge laurel;bushy eurasian shrub with glossy leathery oblong leaves and yellow-green flowers
diesel;an internal-combustion engine that burns heavy oil
berry fern;north american fern often bearing bulbils on the leaflets
alpinia officinarum;chinese perennial with pyramidal racemes of rose-veined white flowers and pungent aromatic roots used medicinally and as flavoring
parthenium integrifolium;stout perennial herb of the eastern united states with whitish flowers. leaves traditionally used by catawba indians to treat burns
apocynum pumilum;north american plant similar to common dogbane
calla palustris;plant of wetlands and bogs of temperate regions having small greenish flowers partly enclosed in a white spathe and red berries
northern pocket gopher;grayish to brown gopher of western and central united states
pixy;creeping evergreen shrub having narrow overlapping leaves and early white star-shaped flowers. of pine barrens of nj and the carolinas
gum;any of various trees of the genera eucalyptus or liquidambar or nyssa that are sources of gum
guadalupe cypress;relatively low wide-spreading endemic on guadalupe island. cultivated for its bluish foliage
hedge nettle;foul-smelling perennial eurasiatic herb with a green creeping rhizome
pea tree;any plant of the genus caragana having even-pinnate leaves and mostly yellow flowers followed by seeds in a linear pod
vaccinium vitis idaea;low evergreen shrub of high north temperate regions of europe and asia and america bearing red edible berries
meadowlark;north american yellow-breasted songbirds
titi monkey;small south american monkeys with long beautiful fur and long nonprehensile tail
felwort;gentian of europe and china having creamy white flowers with fringed corollas
guanaco;wild llama
napu;indo-malayan chevrotain somewhat larger than the kanchil
bellbird;any of several tropical american birds of the genus procnias having a bell-like call
corn borer moth;native to europe. in america the larvae bore into the stem and crown of corn and other plants
maniraptor;advanced carnivorous theropod
quercus lyrata;medium-large deciduous timber tree of central and southern united states. acorns deeply immersed in the cup and mature in first year
hippodamia convergens;a variety of ladybug
acanthophis antarcticus;venomous australian snake resembling an adder
golden retriever;an english breed having a long silky golden coat
pumpkin ash;timber tree of central and southeastern united states having hairy branchlets and a swollen trunk base
australian blacksnake;large semiaquatic snake of australia. black above with red belly
sweet pepper plant;plant bearing large mild thick-walled usually bell-shaped fruits. the principal salad peppers
wall creeper;crimson-and-gray songbird that inhabits town walls and mountain cliffs of southern eurasia and northern africa
carnation;eurasian plant with pink to purple-red spice-scented usually double flowers. widely cultivated in many varieties and many colors
bok choy;asiatic plant grown for its cluster of edible white stalks with dark green leaves
scottish maple;eurasian maple tree with pale gray bark that peels in flakes like that of a sycamore tree. leaves with five ovate lobes yellow in autumn
astragalus danicus;perennial of southern and western europe having dense racemes of purple or violet flowers
guama;tropical tree of central america and west indies and puerto rico having spikes of white flowers. used as shade for coffee plantations
trailing windmills;trailing plant having crowded clusters of 3 brilliant deep pink flowers resembling a single flower blooming near the ground. found in dry gravelly or sandy soil. southwestern united states and mexico
harpullia pendula;australian tree yielding a variegated tulipwood
virginia waterleaf;showy perennial herb with white flowers. leaves sometimes used as edible greens in southeastern united states
cabbage palm;west indian palm with leaf buds that are edible when young
enceliopsis nudicaulis;herb having a basal cluster of gray-green leaves and leafless stalks each with a solitary broad yellow flower head. desert areas idaho to arizona
animal;a living organism characterized by voluntary movement
mediterranean water shrew;a type of water shrew
hop clover;clover native to ireland with yellowish flowers. often considered the true or original shamrock
wild medlar tree;small deciduous tree of southern africa having edible fruit
electric sander;a tool used for sanding wood. a loop of sandpaper is moved at high speed by an electric motor
water hemlock;tall erect highly poisonous eurasiatic perennial herb locally abundant in marshy areas
tartarian honeysuckle;a honeysuckle shrub of southern russia to central asia
bone headed dinosaur;bipedal herbivorous dinosaurs with bony crowns
cauliflower;a plant having a large edible head of crowded white flower buds
yucca whipplei;yucca of southwestern united states and mexico with a tall spike of creamy white flowers
narcissus;bulbous plant having erect linear leaves and showy yellow or white flowers either solitary or in clusters
artemisia maritima;plants of western and northern european coasts
apar;south american armadillo with three bands of bony plates
pyrularia pubera;shrub of southeasternuni ted states parasitic on roots of hemlocks having sparse spikes of greenish flowers and pulpy drupes
smooth sumac;common nonpoisonous shrub of eastern north america with waxy compound leaves and green paniculate flowers followed by red berries
botulinum;anaerobic bacterium producing botulin the toxin that causes botulism
aristolochia macrophylla;hardy deciduous vine having large leaves and flowers with the calyx tube curved like the bowl of a pipe
melanitta nigra;a variety of scoter
davallia canariensis;fern of the canary islands and madeira
wax palm;palm of the andes yielding a resinous wax which is mixed with tallow to make candles
micropterus pseudoplites;a variety of black bass
frigate bird;long-billed warm-water seabird with wide wingspan and forked tail
water mint;a european mint that thrives in wet places. has a perfume like that of the bergamot orange. naturalized in eastern north america
glowworm;the luminous larva or wingless grub-like female of a firefly
darter;fish-eating bird of warm inland waters having a long flexible neck and slender sharp-pointed bill
perennial ryegrass;european perennial grass widely cultivated for pasture and hay and as a lawn grass
podocarpus totara;valuable timber tree of new zealand yielding hard reddish wood used for furniture and bridges and wharves
urochord;primitive marine animal having a saclike unsegmented body and a urochord (a notochord) conspicuous in the larva
royal poinciana;showy tropical tree or shrub native to madagascar. widely planted in tropical regions for its immense racemes of scarlet and orange flowers. sometimes placed in genus poinciana
adlumia fungosa;vine with feathery leaves and white or pinkish flowers. sometimes placed in genus fumaria
lesser hemlock;european weed naturalized in america that resembles parsley but causes nausea and poisoning when eaten
black and tan coonhound;american breed of large powerful hound dogs used for hunting raccoons and other game
pocket calculator;a calculator small enough to hold in the hand or carry in a pocket
seagrass;any of various seaweeds that grow underwater in shallow beds
hydrocharis morsus ranae;european floating plant with roundish heart-shaped leaves and white flowers
