alum;a white crystalline double sulfate of aluminum: the ammonium double sulfate of aluminum
creosote;a colorless or yellowish oily liquid obtained by distillation of wood tar. used as an antiseptic
turpentine;obtained from conifers (especially pines)
methyl alcohol;a light volatile flammable poisonous liquid alcohol. used as an antifreeze and solvent and fuel and as a denaturant for ethyl alcohol
alcoholic beverage;a liquor or brew containing alcohol as the active agent. 'alcohol (or drink) ruined him'
base;any of various water-soluble compounds capable of turning litmus blue and reacting with an acid to form a salt and water. 'bases include oxides and hydroxides of metals and ammonia'
red wine;wine having a red color derived from skins of dark-colored grapes
eutectoid steel;a steel that contains 0.9% carbon (the eutectic point in the iron-carbon system). a carbon steel with 0.9% carbon is pure pearlite
benzoin;gum resin used especially in treating skin irritation
polyester fiber;a quick-drying resilient synthetic fiber consisting primarily of polyester
buffer;an ionic compound that resists changes in its ph
atomic number;a white trivalent metallic element. sometimes classified in the rare earth group. occurs in the scandinavian mineral thortveitite
bitter lemon;tart lemon-flavored carbonated drink
endorphin;a neurochemical occurring naturally in the brain and having analgesic properties
mutton tallow;tallow from the body of a mature sheep
boron;a trivalent metalloid element. occurs both in a hard black crystal and in the form of a yellow or brown powder
sweet cicely;aromatic resin used in perfume and incense
charcoal;a carbonaceous material obtained by heating wood or other organic matter in the absence of air
liquid nitrogen;nitrogen in a liquid state
radium;an intensely radioactive metallic element that occurs in minute amounts in uranium ores
japan wax;a yellow wax obtained from sumac berries. used in polishes
human gamma globulin;a protein fraction of human blood plasma containing numerous antibodies
potassium cyanide;a poisonous salt (kcn) used in electroplating and in photography
colza oil;edible light yellow to brown oil from rapeseed used also as a lubricant or illuminant
virgin mary;bloody_mary without alcohol
cementite;the iron carbide constituent of steel and cast iron. very hard and brittle
rum;distilled from fermented molasses
rock salt;as white crystalline solid consisting mainly of sodium chloride
kauri;resin of the kauri trees of n zealand. found usually as a fossil. also collected for making varnishes and linoleum
iodinated protein;a protein that contains iodine
selenium;a toxic nonmetallic element related to sulfur and tellurium. occurs in several allotropic forms. a stable gray metallike allotrope conducts electricity better in the light than in the dark and is used in photocells. occurs in sulfide ores (as pyrite)
aluminium bronze;a copper-aluminum alloy with high tensile strength and resistance to corrosion
plasticine;a synthetic material resembling clay but remaining soft. used as a substitute for clay or wax in modeling (especially in schools)
carbamide;the chief solid component of mammalian urine. synthesized from ammonia and carbon dioxide and used as fertilizer and in animal feed and in plastics
mucin;a nitrogenous substance found in mucous secretions. a lubricant that protects body surfaces
perboric acid;a form of boric acid
epoxy;a thermosetting resin. used chiefly in strong adhesives and coatings and laminates
vinegar;dilute acetic acid
insectifuge;a chemical substance that repels insects
iodoamino acid;an amino acid with iodine added
gum accroides;an alcohol-soluble resin from australian trees. used in varnishes and in manufacturing paper
ag;a soft white precious univalent metallic element having the highest electrical and thermal conductivity of any metal. occurs in argentite and in free form. used in coins and jewelry and tableware and photography
pt;a heavy precious metallic element. gray-white and resistant to corroding. occurs in some nickel and copper ores and is also found native in some deposits
atomic number;a very poisonous metallic element that has three allotropic forms. arsenic and arsenic compounds are used as herbicides and insecticides and various alloys. found in arsenopyrite and orpiment and realgar
corrosive sublimate;a white poisonous soluble crystalline sublimate of mercury. used as a pesticide or antiseptic or wood preservative
sal ammoniac;a white salt used in dry cells
myoglobin;the form of hemoglobin found in muscle fibers
atomic number;a silvery malleable metallic element that resists corrosion. used in many alloys and to coat other metals to prevent corrosion. obtained chiefly from cassiterite where it occurs as tin oxide
insect repellent;a chemical substance that repels insects
leaf lard;fat lining the abdomen and kidneys in hogs which is used to make lard
bordeaux wine;any of several red or white wines produced around bordeaux in france or resembling such wines
low fat milk;milk from which some of the cream has been removed
ruthenium;a rare polyvalent metallic element of the platinum group. it is found associated with platinum
booze;distilled rather than fermented
thymol;a colorless crystalline solid used in perfume or preserving biological specimens or in embalming or medically as a fungicide or antiseptic
afterdamp;a toxic mixture of gases (including carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide and nitrogen) after an explosion of firedamp in a mine
coal tar creosote;a dark oily liquid obtained by distillation of coal tar. used as a preservative for wood
pearl sago;sago ground into small pearl-like grains
atomic number;a radioactive metallic_element that is similar to tellurium and bismuth. occurs in uranium ores but can be produced by bombarding bismuth with neutrons in a nuclear reactor
fulminate;a salt or ester of fulminic acid
orange soda;orange-flavored carbonated drink
ice pack;a large expanse of floating ice
gamma globulin;a protein fraction of human blood plasma containing numerous antibodies
ku;a radioactive transuranic element which has been synthesized
furan;a colorless toxic flammable liquid used in the synthesis of nylon
atomic number;a radioactive transuranic element synthesized from californium
messenger rna;the form of rna that carries information from dna in the nucleus to the ribosome sites of protein synthesis in the cell
gallic acid;a colorless crystalline acid obtained from tannin
bog;wet spongy ground of decomposing vegetation. has poorer drainage than a swamp. soil is unfit for cultivation but can be cut and dried and used for fuel
alanine;a crystalline amino acid that occurs in many proteins
fixed oil;nonvolatile animal or plant oil
atomic number;a white metallic element that burns with a brilliant light. the fifth most abundant element in the earth's crust. an important component of most plants and animals
cream soda;sweet carbonated drink flavored with vanilla
blanc fixe;a white insoluble radiopaque powder used as a pigment
monoxide;an oxide containing just one atom of oxygen in the molecule
unnilpentium;a transuranic element that has not been found in nature
copper sulphate;a copper salt made by the action of sulfuric acid on copper oxide
eureka;a copper-nickel alloy with high electrical resistance and a low temperature coefficient. used as resistance wire
branch water;pure natural water from a stream or brook. often distinguished from soda water
lipide;any oily organic compound insoluble in water but soluble in organic solvents. essential structural component of living cells (along with proteins and carbohydrates)
zr;a lustrous gray strong metallic element resembling titanium. it is used in nuclear reactors as a neutron absorber. it occurs in baddeleyite but is obtained chiefly from zircon
polymer;naturally occurring or synthetic. consisting of large molecules made up of a linked series of repeated simple monomers
ergosterol;a plant sterol that is converted into vitamin d by ultraviolet radiation
dichloride;a compound containing two chlorine atoms per molecule
imide;any of a class of organic compounds that contain the divalent radical -conhco-
brew;drink made by steeping and boiling and fermenting rather than distilling
soft drink;nonalcoholic beverage (usually carbonated)
washing soda;a sodium salt of carbonic acid. used in making soap powders and glass and paper
fluid;"a continuous amorphous substance that tends to flow and to conform to the outline of its container: a liquid or a gas"
animal fat;any fat obtained from animals
shark liver oil;a fatty yellow to brown oil obtained from the livers of sharks. used for dressing leather and as a source of vitamin a
hydrocyanic acid;a weak poisonous acid (hcn) used in fumigating and in synthesis of organic compounds
blood glucose;glucose in the bloodstream
polyfoam;a foam made by adding water to polyurethane plastics
depilatory;a chemical (usually a sulfide) used to remove hair or wool or bristles from hides
cesium;a soft silver-white ductile metallic element (liquid at normal temperatures). the most electropositive and alkaline metal
wood vinegar;a red-brown liquid formed in distillation of wood which contains acetic acid, methanol, acetone, wood oils, and tars
isocyanic acid;an acid known only in the form of its esters
phenyl salicylate;a white powder with a pleasant taste and odor. used to absorb light in sun tan lotions or as a preservative or an antiseptic or a coating for pills in which the medicine is intended for enteric release
turkish coffee;drink made from pulverized coffee beans. usually sweetened
club soda;effervescent beverage artificially charged with carbon dioxide
atomic number;a hard brittle blue-gray or blue-black metallic element that is one of the platinum metals. the heaviest metal known
caustic lime;a caustic substance (ca(oh)2) produced by heating limestone
intoxicant;a liquor or brew containing alcohol as the active agent. 'alcohol (or drink) ruined him'
acetone body;any of three compounds (acetoacetic acid, acetone, and/or beta-hydroxybutyric acid) found in excess in blood and urine of persons with metabolic disorders
indelible ink;ink that cannot be erased or washed away
aluminum;a silvery ductile metallic element found primarily in bauxite
bock;strong dark beer brewed in the fall and aged through the winter for spring consumption
hydrochloric acid;an aqueous solution of hydrogen chloride. a strongly corrosive acid
labdanum;a soft blackish-brown resinous exudate from various rockroses used in perfumes especially as a fixative
salicylate;a salt of salicylic acid (including several commonly used drugs)
c;an abundant nonmetallic tetravalent element occurring in three allotropic forms: amorphous carbon and graphite and diamond. occurs in all organic compounds
gasolene;a volatile flammable mixture of hydrocarbons (hexane and heptane and octane etc.) derived from petroleum. used mainly as a fuel in internal-combustion engines
chromium steel;steel containing chromium that makes it resistant to corrosion
hypochlorite;any salt or ester of hypochlorous acid
rye;distilled from rye or rye and malt
inessential amino acid;amino acid that can be synthesized by the organism and are not required in the diet
peptone;any of various water-soluble compounds that form by hydrolysis in the digestion of proteins to amino acids
strawberry daiquiri;daiquiri with crushed strawberries
bufferin;aspirin coated with a substance capable of neutralizing acid (trade name bufferin)
propyl alcohol;a clear colorless volatile liquid (alcohol) used as a solvent and antiseptic
anisette de bordeaux;liquorice-flavored usually colorless sweet liqueur made from aniseed
guanine;a purine base found in dna and rna. pairs with cytosine
glutamate;a salt or ester of glutamic acid
carbon monoxide;an odorless very poisonous gas that is a product of incomplete combustion of carbon
iron;a heavy ductile magnetic metallic element. is silver-white in pure form but readily rusts. used in construction and tools and armament. plays a role in the transport of oxygen by the blood
glogg;scandinavian punch made of claret and aquavit with spices and raisins and orange peel and sugar
butylene;any of three isomeric hydrocarbons c4h8. all used in making synthetic rubbers
stearin;an ester of glycerol and stearic acid
ammonia alum;a white crystalline double sulfate of aluminum: the ammonium double sulfate of aluminum
styrene;a colorless oily liquid. the monomer for polystyrene
polyurethane;any of various polymers containing the urethane radical. a wide variety of synthetic forms are made and used as adhesives or plastics or paints or rubber
defoliant;a chemical that is sprayed on plants and causes their leaves to fall off
myrrh;aromatic resin used in perfume and incense
polyose;any of a class of carbohydrates whose molecules contain chains of monosaccharide molecules
may wine;moselle and sugar and sparkling water or champagne flavored with sweet woodruff
digitalis glycoside;a powerful cardiac stimulant obtained from foxglove
polyvinyl resin;a thermoplastic derived by polymerization from compounds containing the vinyl group
terbium metal;a separate group of related lanthanides, including terbium, europium, gadolinium, and sometimes dysprosium
liquor;a liquid substance that is a solution (or emulsion or suspension) used or obtained in an industrial process. 'waste liquors'
methyl phenol;any of three poisonous colorless isomeric phenols. derived from coal or wood tar. used as a disinfectant
gold;a soft yellow malleable ductile (trivalent and univalent) metallic element. occurs mainly as nuggets in rocks and alluvial deposits. does not react with most chemicals but is attacked by chlorine and aqua regia
calcium chloride;a deliquescent salt. used in de-icing and as a drying agent
electrolyte acid;dilute sulfuric acid used in storage batteries
phosphoprotein;containing chemically bound phosphoric acid
al;a silvery ductile metallic element found primarily in bauxite
pr;a soft yellowish-white trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. can be recovered from bastnasite or monazite by an ion-exchange process
margarin;a glyceryl ester of margaric acid
cupronickel;a 60/40 alloy of copper and nickel
japan tallow;a yellow wax obtained from sumac berries. used in polishes
plaster;any of several gypsum cements. a white powder (a form of calcium sulphate) that forms a paste when mixed with water and hardens into a solid. used in making molds and sculptures and casts for broken limbs
aspirin powder;a powdered form of aspirin
pentose;any monosaccharide sugar containing five atoms of carbon per molecule
sago;powdery starch from certain sago palms. used in asia as a food thickener and textile stiffener
attar of roses;a volatile fragrant oil obtained from fresh roses by steam distillation
sardine oil;oil obtained from sardines and used chiefly as a lubricant and in soap
hydrated oxide;a compound of an oxide with water
liquor;distilled rather than fermented
mn;a hard brittle gray polyvalent metallic element that resembles iron but is not magnetic. used in making steel. occurs in many minerals
bourbon;distilled from a mash of corn and malt and rye and aged in charred oak barrels
atomic number;a heavy precious metallic element. gray-white and resistant to corroding. occurs in some nickel and copper ores and is also found native in some deposits
phenol;a toxic white soluble crystalline acidic derivative of benzene. used in manufacturing and as a disinfectant and antiseptic
liquid air;air in a liquid state
chlorine dioxide;an explosive gas (clo2) used chiefly in bleaching paper or starch or soap or flour and in water purification
calcium phosphate;a phosphate of calcium. a main constituent of animal bones
hydroxy acid;any acid that has hydroxyl groups in addition to the hydroxyl group in the acid itself
atomic number;a soft silvery metallic element of the alkali earth group. found in barite
ink;a liquid used for printing or writing or drawing
tetrachloride;any compound that contains four chlorine atoms per molecule
fish oil;oil obtained from fish
claret cup;a punch made of claret and brandy with lemon juice and sugar and sometimes sherry or curacao and fresh fruit
crucible steel;steel made by the mixture of molten wrought iron, charcoal, and other substances in a crucible
methylated spirits;ethyl alcohol denatured with methyl alcohol to prevent its use as an alcoholic beverage
thiazine;a compound made up of a ring of four carbon atoms and one sulfur atom and one nitrogen atom
galvanized iron;iron that is coated with zinc to protect it from rust
dichromic acid;the hypothetical acid (h2cr2o7) from which dichromates are derived. known only in solution and in the form of dichromate salts
hahnium;a transuranic element that has not been found in nature
goose grease;grease derived from geese
whiskey sour;a sour made with whiskey
breath;the air that is inhaled and exhaled in respiration. 'his sour breath offended her'
congo gum;copal found usually as a fossil
sonora gum;acidulous gum resin of the creosote bush
carbon black;a black colloidal substance consisting wholly or principally of amorphous carbon and used to make pigments and ink
zn;a bluish-white lustrous metallic element. brittle at ordinary temperatures but malleable when heated. used in a wide variety of alloys and in galvanizing iron. it occurs as zinc sulphide in zinc blende
zinfandel;dry fruity red wine from california
ephedrine;white odorless powdered or crystalline alkaloid from plants of the genus ephedra (especially ephedra sinica) or made synthetically. used to treat allergies and asthma
ytterbium;a soft silvery metallic element. a rare earth of the lanthanide series. it occurs in gadolinite and monazite and xenotime
organic compound;any compound of carbon and another element or a radical
pop;a sweet drink containing carbonated water and flavoring. 'in new england they call sodas tonics'
atomic number;a rare soft silvery metallic element. occurs in small quantities in sphalerite
flowers of zinc;oxide of zinc. a white powder used as a pigment or in cosmetics or glass or inks and in zinc ointment
atomic number;a metallic element having four allotropic forms. used in a wide variety of alloys. found in stibnite
palm oil;oil from nuts of oil palms especially the african oil palm
paraffin wax;from crude petroleum. used for candles and for preservative or waterproof coatings
empirin;an analgesic anti-inflammatory drug (trade names bayer and empirin) usually taken in tablet form. also used as an antipyretic
menhaden oil;a fatty oil obtained from the menhaden fish and used in paint and ink and in treating leather
phosphoric acid;an acid used in fertilizers and soaps: h3po4
ardent spirits;strong distilled liquor or brandy
threonine;a colorless crystalline amino acid that occurs in the hydrolysates of certain proteins. an essential component of human nutrition
pernod;anise- and licorice-flavored liqueur
caprylic acid;a fatty acid having a rancid taste. found in butter and other fats and oils
cohune oil;semisolid fat from nuts of the cohune palm. used in cooking and soap making
iodin;a nonmetallic element belonging to the halogens. used especially in medicine and photography and in dyes. occurs naturally only in combination in small quantities (as in sea water or rocks)
absinthe;strong green liqueur flavored with wormwood and anise
animal oil;any oil obtained from animal substances
polystyrene;a polymer of styrene. a rigid transparent thermoplastic. 'expanded polystyrene looks like a rigid white foam and is used as packing or insulation'
hexane;a colorless flammable liquid alkane derived from petroleum and used as a solvent
flintstone;pebbles of flint used in masonry construction
strong drink;distilled rather than fermented
tetrafluoroethylene;a flammable gaseous fluorocarbon used in making plastics (polytetrafluoroethylene resins)
glycerine;a glyceryl ester obtained by saponification of fats and oils
lactalbumin;albumin occurring in milk
pinot blanc;dry white california table wine made from white pinot grapes
wine;fermented juice (of grapes especially)
smelling salts;a pungent preparation of ammonium carbonate and perfume. sniffed as a stimulant to relieve faintness
babacu oil;fatty oil from kernels of babassu nuts similar to coconut oil
malt whisky;whiskey distilled in scotland. especially whiskey made from malted barley in a pot still
salicylic acid;a white crystalline substance with a bitter aftertaste. used as a fungicide or in making aspirin or dyes or perfumes
pd;a sliver-white metallic element of the platinum group that resembles platinum. occurs in some copper and nickel ores. does not tarnish at ordinary temperatures and is used (alloyed with gold) in jewelry
lanolin;a yellow viscous animal oil extracted from wool. a mixture of fatty acids and esters. used in some ointments and cosmetics
atomic number;a white hard metallic element that is one of the platinum group and is found in platinum ores. used in alloys with platinum
linalool;a colorless fragrant liquid found in many essential oils
eau de javelle;an aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite
spike lavender oil;pale yellow essential oil obtained from spike lavender used in scenting soaps and cosmetics
globulin;a family of proteins found in blood and milk and muscle and in plant seed
ammonia;a water solution of ammonia
propylthiouracil;a crystalline compound used as an antithyroid drug in the treatment of goiter
digitalis;a powerful cardiac stimulant obtained from foxglove
antitoxin;an antibody that can neutralize a specific toxin
atomic number;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. occurs with yttrium
iced tea;strong tea served over ice
cellulose;a polysaccharide that is the chief constituent of all plant tissues and fibers
ferricyanide;salt of ferricyanic acid obtained by oxidation of a ferrocynide
strontium;a soft silver-white or yellowish metallic element of the alkali metal group. turns yellow in air. occurs in celestite and strontianite
polyamide;a polymer containing repeated amide groups
brimstone;an old name for sulfur
lime;a white crystalline oxide used in the production of calcium hydroxide
atomic number;a silvery metallic element that is common in rare-earth minerals. used in magnesium and aluminum alloys
greensward;surface layer of ground containing a matt of grass and grass roots
atomic number;a silvery soft waxy metallic element of the alkali metal group. occurs abundantly in natural compounds (especially in salt water). burns with a yellow flame and reacts violently in water. occurs in sea water and in the mineral halite (rock salt)
canavanine;an amino acid found in the jack bean
gold dust;the particles and flakes (and sometimes small nuggets) of gold obtained in placer mining
cobalt;a hard ferromagnetic silver-white bivalent or trivalent metallic element. a trace element in plant and animal nutrition
polythene;a lightweight thermoplastic. used especially in packaging and insulation
dessert wine;still sweet wine often served with dessert or after a meal
iodotyrosine;tyrosine with iodine added
titania;a white powder used as a pigment for its high covering power and durability
austenitic manganese steel;a steel with a relatively large component (10-14%) of manganese. highly resistant to wear and shock
unslaked lime;a white crystalline oxide used in the production of calcium hydroxide
blowing gas;the gas leaving a generator during a blow period
digitalin;a powerful cardiac stimulant obtained from foxglove
serum albumin;albumin occurring in blood serum. serves to maintain the somatic pressure of the blood
diamond;very hard native crystalline carbon valued as a gem
trace element;an element that occurs at very small quantities in the body but is nonetheless important for many biological processes
grand marnier;french liqueur: orange-flavored brandy
sodium hydride;a flammable gray crystalline compound (nah)
w;a heavy gray-white metallic element. the pure form is used mainly in electrical applications. it is found in several ores including wolframite and scheelite
tannin;any of various complex phenolic substances of plant origin. used in tanning and in medicine
petroleum;a dark oil consisting mainly of hydrocarbons
benzene formula;a closed chain of 6 carbon atoms with hydrogen atoms attached
gum benjamin;gum resin used especially in treating skin irritation
sherry;dry to sweet amber wine from the jerez region of southern spain or similar wines produced elsewhere. usually drunk as an aperitif
bitters;alcoholic liquor flavored with bitter herbs and roots
hydrogen bromide;a colorless gas that yields hydrobromic acid in solution with water
calcium stearate;an insoluble calcium salt of stearic acid and palmitic acid. it is formed when soap is mixed with water that contains calcium ions and is the scum produced in regions of hard water
lutetium;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. usually occurs in association with yttrium
benzoate;any salt or ester of benzoic acid
myosin;the commonest protein in muscle. a globulin that combines with actin to form actomyosin
gimlet;gin or vodka and lime juice
oligosaccharide;any of the carbohydrates that yield only a few monosaccharide molecules on complete hydrolysis
hydrated lime;a caustic substance (ca(oh)2) produced by heating limestone
nada daiquiri;daiquiri made without alcohol
sandarac;a brittle and faintly aromatic translucent resin used in varnishes
saccharose;a complex carbohydrate found in many plants and used as a sweetening agent
potassium carbonate;a white salt (k2co3) that is basic in solution. used to make glass and cleansing agents
kauri copal;resin of the kauri trees of n zealand. found usually as a fossil. also collected for making varnishes and linoleum
bilge water;water accumulated in the bilge of a ship
hooch;an illicitly distilled (and usually inferior) alcoholic liquor
orthoboric acid;a white or colorless slightly acid solid that is soluble in water and ethanol. used in the manufacture of glass and paper and adhesives and in detergents and as a flux in welding. also used as an antiseptic and food preservative
polyphosphoric acid;a series of oxyacids of phosphorus
cholic acid;an insoluble crystalline acid present in bile
silicone;any of a large class of siloxanes that are unusually stable over a wide range of temperatures. used in lubricants and adhesives and coatings and synthetic rubber and electrical insulation
saltpeter;(kno3) used especially as a fertilizer and explosive
ammonium alum;a white crystalline double sulfate of aluminum: the ammonium double sulfate of aluminum
silver nitrate;a nitrate used in making photographic emulsions. also used in medicine as a cautery and as a topical anti-infective agent
mixed drink;made of two or more ingredients
nitrogen dioxide;a highly poisonous gas
cholesterol;an animal sterol that is normally synthesized by the liver. the most abundant steroid in animal tissue. a high level in the blood is thought to be related to various pathogenic conditions
intropin;a monoamine neurotransmitter found in the brain. as a drug (trade names dopastat and intropin) it is used to treat shock and hypotension
cesium;a radioactive isotope of cesium used in radiation therapy
acrylic resin;a glassy thermoplastic. can be cast and molded or used in coatings and adhesives
bromine;a nonmetallic largely pentavalent heavy volatile corrosive dark brown liquid element belonging to the halogens. found in sea water
marsh;low-lying wet land with grassy vegetation. usually is a transition zone between land and water
bichromate;a salt of the hypothetical dichromic acid
adenine;purine base found in dna and rna. pairs with thymine in dna and with uracil in rna
es;a radioactive transuranic element produced by bombarding plutonium with neutrons
carbamate;a salt (or ester) of carbamic acid
malabar kino;reddish or black juice or resin from certain trees of the genus pterocarpus and used in medicine and tanning etc
soybean oil;oil from soya beans
scleroprotein;a simple protein found in horny and cartilaginous tissues and in the lens of the eye
anime;a hard copal derived from an african tree
sour;a liquor (especially whiskey or gin) mixed with lemon or lime juice and sugar
br;a nonmetallic largely pentavalent heavy volatile corrosive dark brown liquid element belonging to the halogens. found in sea water
triple sec;type of curacao having higher alcoholic content
snake oil;any of various liquids sold as medicine (as by a travelling medicine show) but medically worthless
rare earth;any element of the lanthanide series (atomic numbers 57' through 71')
sodium iodide;a crystalline salt used like potassium iodide
saltpetre;(kno3) used especially as a fertilizer and explosive
cyanide;any of a class of organic compounds containing the cyano radical -cn
cyclohexanol phthalate;the cyclohexanol ester of phthalic acid
atomic number;a colorless odorless inert gaseous element occurring in the earth's atmosphere in trace amounts
alnico;an alloy used to make high-energy permanent magnets. contains aluminum and iron and nickel plus cobalt or copper or titanium
sperm oil;an animal oil found in the blubber of the sperm whale
resorcinol;a crystalline phenol obtained from various resins
perfect gas;a hypothetical gas with molecules of negligible size that exert no intermolecular forces
enamel;a colored glassy compound (opaque or partially opaque) that is fused to the surface of metal or glass or pottery for decoration or protection
hyoscine;an alkaloid with anticholinergic effects that is used as a sedative and to treat nausea and to dilate the pupils in ophthalmic procedures. 'transdermal scopolamine is used to treat motion sickness'. 'someone sedated with scopolamine has difficulty lying'
diol;any of a class of alcohols having 2 hydroxyl groups in each molecule
shellac wax;a hard wax separated from shellac by its insolubility in alcohol
creatin;a compound that is found in the muscle tissue of vertebrates. supplies energy for muscle contraction
acrylate resin;a glassy thermoplastic. can be cast and molded or used in coatings and adhesives
brass;an alloy of copper and zinc
cafe au lait;equal parts of coffee and hot milk
accroides resin;an alcohol-soluble resin from australian trees. used in varnishes and in manufacturing paper
glycolic acid;a translucent crystalline compound found in sugar cane and sugar beets and unripe grapes
monosaccharide;a simple sugar (like sucrose or fructose) that does not hydrolyse to give other sugars. the simplest group of carbohydrates
chianti;dry red italian table wine from the chianti region of tuscany
invar;(trademark) an alloy of iron and nickel having a low coefficient of thermal expansion. used in tuning forks and measuring tapes and other instruments
fluoroboride;a salt of fluoroboric acid
oil of vitriol;(h2so4) a highly corrosive acid made from sulfur dioxide. widely used in the chemical industry
spirits of wine;rectified ethyl alcohol
pyrophosphoric acid;a solid acid formed by reactions of orthophosphoric acid
atmosphere;"the mass of air surrounding the earth. 'there was great heat as the comet entered the atmosphere'"
compound protein;a protein complex combining amino acids with other substances
crazy glue;(trademark) a commercial brand of epoxy glue
dope;carbonated drink flavored with extract from kola nuts ('dope' is a southernism in the united states)
tribasic acid;an acid containing three replaceable hydrogen atoms per molecule
orange liqueur;liqueur flavored with orange
fluosilicic acid;an unstable poisonous corrosive acid know primarily in the form of its salts
nipa;made from sap of the australasian nipa palm
oxime;any compound containing the group -c=noh
atomic number;a light strong brittle gray toxic bivalent metallic element
coca cola;coca_cola is a trademarked cola
marking ink;an indelible ink for marking clothes or linens etc.
ribose;a pentose sugar important as a component of ribonucleic acid
near beer;drink that resembles beer but with less than 1/2 percent alcohol
ilang ilang;oil distilled from flowers of the ilang-ilang tree. used in perfumery
sauvignon blanc;a california wine
tributyrin;a bitter oily triglyceride of butyric acid. a form of butyrin
ni hard iron;cast iron to which nickel has been added to make it resist abrasion
tetrasaccharide;any of a variety of carbohydrates that yield four monosaccharide molecules on complete hydrolysis
cellulose triacetate;slow-burning. used instead of celluloid for motion-picture film
liquid;a substance that is liquid at room temperature and pressure
flaxseed oil;a drying oil extracted from flax seed and used in making such things as oil paints
fr;a radioactive element of the alkali-metal group discovered as a disintegration product of actinium
uranium;a uranium isotope with mass number 235. capable of sustaining chain reactions
mercuric chloride;a white poisonous soluble crystalline sublimate of mercury. used as a pesticide or antiseptic or wood preservative
glycoside;a group of compounds derived from monosaccharides
amylum;a complex carbohydrate found chiefly in seeds, fruits, tubers, roots and stem pith of plants, notably in corn, potatoes, wheat, and rice. an important foodstuff and used otherwise especially in adhesives and as fillers and stiffeners for paper and textiles
calcium nitrate;a deliquescent salt (ca(no3)2) that is soluble in water. sometimes used as a source of nitrogen in fertilizers
ni resist;cast iron consisting of graphite in a matrix of austenite
liqueur;strong highly flavored sweet liquor usually drunk after a meal
ice tea;strong tea served over ice
rainwater;drops of fresh water that fall as precipitation from clouds
cobalt;a radioactive isotope of cobalt with mass number 60. a source of exceptionally intense gamma rays. used in radiation therapy
toluic acid;an isomeric acid derived from toluene
jaggery;unrefined brown sugar made from palm sap
ne;a colorless odorless gaseous element that give a red glow in a vacuum tube. one of the six inert gasses. occurs in the air in small amounts
soda water;a sweet drink containing carbonated water and flavoring. 'in new england they call sodas tonics'
elixir;a substance believed to cure all ills
atomic number;a light silver-white ductile bivalent metallic element. in pure form it burns with brilliant white flame. occurs naturally only in combination (as in magnesite and dolomite and carnallite and spinel and olivine)
silver bromide;a bromide that darkens when exposed to light. used in making photographic emulsions
hydrazine;a colorless fuming corrosive liquid. used chiefly in rocket fuels
firewater;(informal) any strong spirits (such as strong whisky or rum)
sodium carboxymethyl cellulose;a gummy substance that is a sodium salt of carboxymethyl cellulose. used as a thickening or emulsifying agent
ammonium nitrate;used as an explosive and fertilizer and rocket propellant
atomic number;a radioactive transuranic element. discovered by bombarding americium with helium
plaster of paris;any of several gypsum cements. a white powder (a form of calcium sulphate) that forms a paste when mixed with water and hardens into a solid. used in making molds and sculptures and casts for broken limbs
bicarbonate;a salt of carbonic acid in which one hydrogen atom has been replaced. an acid carbonate
compound;"(chemistry) a substance formed by chemical union of two or more elements or ingredients in definite proportion by weight"
spill;liquid that is spilled. 'clean up the spills'
transuranic element;any element having an atomic number greater than 92' (the atomic number of uranium). all are radioactive
adenosine;(biochemistry) a nucleoside that is present in all living cells in a combined form. a constituent of dna and rna and atp and amp
tin;a silvery malleable metallic element that resists corrosion. used in many alloys and to coat other metals to prevent corrosion. obtained chiefly from cassiterite where it occurs as tin oxide
britannia metal;an alloy similar to pewter
pewter;any of various alloys of tin with small amounts of other metals (especially lead)
kummel;liqueur flavored with caraway seed or cumin
rochelle salts;a double salt used in seidlitz powder. acts as a cathartic
furfuraldehyde;a liquid aldehyde with a penetrating odor. made from plant hulls and corn cobs. used in making furan and as a solvent
petrochemical;any compound obtained from petroleum or natural gas
cinder pig;pig iron containing a substantial proportion of slag
scopolamine;an alkaloid with anticholinergic effects that is used as a sedative and to treat nausea and to dilate the pupils in ophthalmic procedures. 'transdermal scopolamine is used to treat motion sickness'. 'someone sedated with scopolamine has difficulty lying'
admiralty brass;alpha-beta brass containing tin. resistant to sea water. admiralty metal is a trademark
fructose;a simple sugar found in honey and in many ripe fruits
sulphanilic acid;a crystalline acid made from aniline and used as a dye
potash;a potassium compound often used in agriculture and industry
copra oil;oil from coconuts
ferrocyanic acid;(h4fe(cn)6), a white unstable acid formed from ferrocyanide salts
carbonate;a salt or ester of carbonic acid
pyrimidine;a heterocyclic organic compound with a penetrating odor
tallow oil;an animal oil obtained by pressing tallow. used as a lubricant
hard water;water that contains salts that prevent the formation of lather with soap
calcium carbonate;a salt found in nature as chalk or calcite or limestone
poteen;unlawfully distilled irish whiskey
artificial blood;a liquid that can carry large amounts of oxygen and can serve as a temporary substitute for blood
yb;a soft silvery metallic element. a rare earth of the lanthanide series. it occurs in gadolinite and monazite and xenotime
bdellium;aromatic gum resin. similar to myrrh
writing ink;any permanent or washable ink used with pens
glyceride;an ester of glycerol and fatty acids that occurs naturally as fats and fatty oils
morass;a soft wet area of low-lying land that sinks underfoot
aniline;oily poisonous liquid amine obtained from nitrobenzene and used to make dyes and plastics and medicines
lampblack;a black colloidal substance consisting wholly or principally of amorphous carbon and used to make pigments and ink
hg;a heavy silvery toxic univalent and bivalent metallic element. the only metal that is liquid at ordinary temperatures
chelate;a heterocyclic compound having a metal ion attached by coordinate bonds to at least two nonmetal ions
absinthe oil;a dark bitter oil obtained obtained from wormwood leaves. flavors absinthe liqueurs
thymine;a base found in dna (but not in rna) and derived from pyrimidine. pairs with adenine
i;a nonmetallic element belonging to the halogens. used especially in medicine and photography and in dyes. occurs naturally only in combination in small quantities (as in sea water or rocks)
polysaccharide;any of a class of carbohydrates whose molecules contain chains of monosaccharide molecules
fruit crush;drink produced by squeezing or crushing fruit
insect repellant;a chemical substance that repels insects
streptolysin;any of several hemolysins derived from strains of streptococcus
transfer dna;the form of rna that attaches the correct amino acid to the protein chain that is being synthesized at the ribosome of the cell (according to directions coded in the mrna)
atomic number;a ductile malleable reddish-brown corrosion-resistant diamagnetic metallic element. occurs in various minerals but is the only metal that occurs abundantly in large masses. used as an electrical and thermal conductor
thorazine;a drug (trade name thorazine) derived from phenothiazine that has anti-psychotic effects and is used as a sedative and tranquilizer
sodium;a silvery soft waxy metallic element of the alkali metal group. occurs abundantly in natural compounds (especially in salt water). burns with a yellow flame and reacts violently in water. occurs in sea water and in the mineral halite (rock salt)
demitasse;small cup of strong black coffee without milk or cream
swizzle;any of various tall frothy mixed drinks made usually of rum and lime juice and sugar shaken with ice
cr;a hard brittle blue-white multivalent metallic element. resistant to corrosion and tarnishing
vanillin;a crystalline compound found in vanilla beans and some balsam resins. used in perfumes and flavorings
gondang wax;a hard cream-colored wax obtained from a javanese fig tree
pink wine;pinkish table wine from red grapes whose skins were removed after fermentation began
tonic;a sweet drink containing carbonated water and flavoring. 'in new england they call sodas tonics'
hard solder;solder that contains copper. melts at a relatively high temperature. used for brazing
triglyceride;naturally occurring in animal and vegetable tissues. an important energy source forming much of the fat stored by the body
valeric acid;a clear liquid carboxylic acid used in perfumes and drugs
astatine;a highly unstable radioactive element (the heaviest of the halogen series). a decay product of uranium and thorium
formulation;a substance prepared according to a formula
cornflour;starch prepared from the grains of corn. used in cooking as a thickener
nitrogen;a common nonmetallic element that is normally a colorless odorless tasteless inert diatomic gas. constitutes 78 percent of the atmosphere by volume. a constituent of all living tissues
nitrocellulose;nitric acid esters. used in lacquers and explosives
atomic number;a heavy toxic silvery-white radioactive metallic element. occurs in many isotopes. used for nuclear fuels and nuclear weapons
cf;a radioactive transuranic element. discovered by bombarding curium with alpha particles
cadaverine;a colorless toxic ptomaine with an unpleasant odor formed during the putrefaction of animal tissue
muriatic acid;a former name for hydrochloric acid
arsenate;a salt or ester of arsenic acid
lithium carbonate;a white powder (lico3) used in manufacturing glass and ceramics and as a drug. the drug (trade names lithane or lithonate) is used to treat some forms of depression and manic episodes of manic-depressive disorder
jagghery;unrefined brown sugar made from palm sap
inebriant;a liquor or brew containing alcohol as the active agent. 'alcohol (or drink) ruined him'
manioca;a starch made by leaching and drying the root of the cassava plant. the source of tapioca. a staple food in the tropics
pantothenic acid;a vitamin of the vitamin b complex that performs an important role in the oxidation of fats and carbohydrates and certain amino acids. occurs in many foods
sucrose;a complex carbohydrate found in many plants and used as a sweetening agent
icefall;a steep part of a glacier resembling a frozen waterfall
brine;water containing salts. 'the water in the ocean is all saltwater'
glycerol tripalmitate;a triglyceride of palmitic acid
nucleotide;a phosphoric ester of a nucleoside. the basic structural unit of nucleic acids (dna or rna)
succinic acid;a dicarboxylic acid (c4h6o4) active in metabolic processes
cyanamid;a weak soluble dibasic acid (the parent acid of cyanamide salts)
chian turpentine;a turpentine exuded by the terebinth
wheat gluten;gluten prepared from wheat
technetium;a crystalline metallic element not found in nature. occurs as one of the fission products of uranium
benzene;a colorless liquid hydrocarbon. highly inflammable. carcinogenic
pyridine;a toxic colorless flammable liquid organic base with a disagreeable odor. usually derived from coal
manganese tetroxide;an oxide of manganese found naturally as hausmannite
fulminic acid;(cnoh) an unstable acid occurring mainly in the form of explosive salts and esters that is isomeric with cyanic acid
pasteurized milk;milk that has been exposed briefly to high temperatures to destroy microorganisms and prevent fermentation
chromate;any salt or ester of chromic acid
ldl;a lipoprotein that transports cholesterol in the blood. high levels are thought to be associated with increased risk of coronary heart disease and atherosclerosis
chrome tungsten steel;a steel alloy made with chromium and tungsten
gamma aminobutyric acid;an amino acid that is found in the central nervous system. acts as an inhibitory neurotransmitter
citric acid;a weak water-soluble acid found in many fruits (especially citrus fruits). used as a flavoring agent
atomic number;a trivalent metalloid element. occurs both in a hard black crystal and in the form of a yellow or brown powder
li;a soft silver-white univalent element of the alkali metal group. the lightest metal known. occurs in several minerals
glycol;a sweet but poisonous syrupy liquid used as an antifreeze and solvent
airspace;the atmosphere above a nation and deemed to be under its jurisdiction
asparagine;a crystalline amino acid found in many plants (e.g., asparagus)
brewage;drink made by steeping and boiling and fermenting rather than distilling
creme de fraise;strawberry-flavored liqueur
lectin;any of several plant glycoproteins that act like specific antibodies but are not antibodies in that they are not evoked by an antigenic stimulus
paba;a metabolic acid found in yeast and liver cells. used to make dyes and drugs
zirconium oxide;a white crystalline oxide. used in refractories and in insulation and abrasives and enamels and glazes
scale wax;partly refined paraffin wax
camphor oil;oil distilled from camphor resin
tb;a metallic element of the rare earth group. used in lasers. occurs in apatite and monazite and xenotime and ytterbite
chitin;a tough semitransparent horny substance. the principal component of the exoskeletons of arthropods and the cell walls of certain fungi
cyanohydrin;any organic compound in which the cyano radical -cn and the hydroxyl radical -oh are attached to the same carbon atom
corn oil;oil from the germs of corn grains
ferric oxide;a red oxide of iron
fe;a heavy ductile magnetic metallic element. is silver-white in pure form but readily rusts. used in construction and tools and armament. plays a role in the transport of oxygen by the blood
anime;any of various resins or oleoresins
chisel steel;steel used in making chisels
exhaust;gases ejected from an engine as waste products
element;a transuranic element that has not been found in nature
cocoa butter;a yellow-white fat from cocoa beans
atomic number;a highly unstable radioactive element (the heaviest of the halogen series). a decay product of uranium and thorium
atomic number;a radioactive transuranic metallic element. found in trace amounts in uranium ores. a by-product of the production of plutonium
lactic acid;a clear odorless hygroscopic syrupy carboxylic acid found in sour milk and in many fruits
kerosine;a flammable hydrocarbon oil used as fuel in lamps and heaters
maraschino;distilled from fermented juice of bitter wild marasca cherries
acetic acid;a colorless pungent liquid widely used in manufacturing plastics and pharmaceuticals
mate;south american tea-like drink made from leaves of a south american holly called mate
arak;any of various strong liquors distilled from the fermented sap of toddy palms or from fermented molasses
cassava;a starch made by leaching and drying the root of the cassava plant. the source of tapioca. a staple food in the tropics
ideal gas;a hypothetical gas with molecules of negligible size that exert no intermolecular forces
porter s beer;dark sweet ale brewed from black malt
5 hydroxytryptamine;a neurotransmitter involved in e.g. sleep and depression and memory
rhodium;a white hard metallic element that is one of the platinum group and is found in platinum ores. used in alloys with platinum
acrylic acid;an unsaturated liquid carboxylic acid used in the manufacture of acrylic resins
espresso;brewed by forcing steam through powdered coffee beans
complex;a compound described in terms of the central atom to which other atoms are bound or coordinated
fluorine;a nonmetallic univalent element. usually a yellow irritating toxic flammable gas. a powerful oxidizing agent. recovered from fluorite or cryolite or fluorapatite
zinc cadmium sulfide;cadmium sulfide containing zinc
aspirin;an analgesic anti-inflammatory drug (trade names bayer and empirin) usually taken in tablet form. also used as an antipyretic
baking soda;a white soluble compound used in effervescent drinks and in baking powders and as an antacid
propanal;a colorless liquid aldehyde
olefine;any unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbon
caproic acid;a fatty acid found in animal oils and fats or made synthetically. smells like goats
carboxylic acid;an organic acid characterized by one or more carboxyl groups
furane;a colorless toxic flammable liquid used in the synthesis of nylon
rangeland;lan suitable for grazing livestock
strontium;a radioactive isotope of strontium (with the mass number 90) that is present in the fallout from nuclear explosions. can be assimilated like calcium into bones
beryllium;a light strong brittle gray toxic bivalent metallic element
triacetate;slow-burning. used instead of celluloid for motion-picture film
cottonseed oil;edible oil pressed from cottonseeds
belladonna;an alkaloidal extract or tincture of the poisonous belladonna herb that is used medicinally
pulque;fermented mexican drink from juice of various agave plants especially the maguey
atomic number;a very light colorless element that is one of the six inert gasses. the most difficult gas to liquefy. occurs in economically extractable amounts in certain natural gases (as those found in texas and kansas)
fortified wine;wine to which alcohol (usually grape brandy) has been added
prussic acid;a weak poisonous acid (hcn) used in fumigating and in synthesis of organic compounds
schnapps;any of various strong liquors especially a dutch spirit distilled from potatoes
port;sweet dark-red dessert wine originally from portugal
vanadium pentoxide;any of various oxyacids of vanadium. known mostly in the form of its salts
flip;hot or cold alcoholic drink containing beaten egg
aminoalkanoic acid;building block of proteins. containing an amino group and a carboxylic acid group
carbamic acid;an acid that is known only by virtue of its salts (as ammonium carbamate) or its esters (as urethane)
carbon;a radioactive isotope of carbon
ketose;any monosaccharide sugar that contains a ketone group or its hemiacetal
caesium;a soft silver-white ductile metallic element (liquid at normal temperatures). the most electropositive and alkaline metal
pencil lead;a mixture of graphite with clay in different degrees of hardness. the marking substance in a pencil
blacking;a substance used to produce a shiny protective surface on footwear
wool oil;any oil used to oil wool before spinning
synthetic resin;a resin having a polymeric structure. especially a resin in the raw state. used chiefly in plastics
einsteinium;a radioactive transuranic element produced by bombarding plutonium with neutrons
lithane;a white powder (lico3) used in manufacturing glass and ceramics and as a drug. the drug (trade names lithane or lithonate) is used to treat some forms of depression and manic episodes of manic-depressive disorder
planter s punch;rum and lime or lemon juice with sugar and sometimes bitters
benzine;a colorless liquid hydrocarbon. highly inflammable. carcinogenic
herbal tea;tea-like drink made of leaves of various herbs
phthalic acid;a colorless acid used to make dyes and perfumes
ceresin;a white wax extracted from ozokerite
glycerin;a glyceryl ester obtained by saponification of fats and oils
halitosis;offensive breath
hydnocarpus oil;oil from seeds of trees of the genus hydnocarpus especially hydnocarpus_wightiana (hydnocarpus_laurifolia)
alkali metal;any of the monovalent metals of group i of the periodic table (lithium or sodium or potassium or rubidium or cesium or francium)
nitrile;any of a class of organic compounds containing the cyano radical -cn
sulfide;a compound of sulphur and some other element that is more electropositive
sulphide;a compound of sulphur and some other element that is more electropositive
propenoate;a salt or ester of propenoic acid
light beer;beer with reduced alcohol content
metal;any of several chemical elements that are usually shiny solids that conduct heat or electricity and can be formed into sheets etc.
orange juice;bottled or fresh-squeezed juice of oranges
nd;a yellow trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. occurs in monazite and bastnasite in association with cerium and lanthanum and praseodymium
sling;liquor and water with sugar and lemon or lime juice
austenitic steel;steel that has enough nickel and chromium or manganese to retain austenite at atmospheric temperatures
po;a radioactive metallic_element that is similar to tellurium and bismuth. occurs in uranium ores but can be produced by bombarding bismuth with neutrons in a nuclear reactor
turf;surface layer of ground containing a matt of grass and grass roots
camomile tea;tea-like drink made from camomile leaves and flowers
wolfram;a heavy gray-white metallic element. the pure form is used mainly in electrical applications. it is found in several ores including wolframite and scheelite
atomic number;a hard gray lustrous metallic element that is highly corrosion-resistant. occurs in niobite and fergusonite and tantalite
cacodyl;a poisonous oily liquid with a garlicky odor composed of 2 cacodyl groups. undergoes spontaneous combustion in dry air
propanone;a highly inflammable liquid ketone widely used as an organic solvent and as material for making plastics
decanoic acid;a fatty acid found in animal oils and fats. has an unpleasant smell resembling goats
low brass;brass with 30% (or less) zinc
alkaline earth;any of the bivalent metals (calcium or strontium or barium or magnesium)
berkelium;a radioactive transuranic element. discovered by bombarding americium with helium
adenosine diphosphate;an ester of adenosine that is converted to atp for energy storage
lactose;a sugar comprising one glucose molecule linked to a galactose molecule. occurs only in milk. 'cow's milk contains about 4.7% lactose'
gelatine;a colorless water-soluble glutinous protein obtained from animal tissues such as bone and skin
distillate;a liquid produced by condensation from a vapor during distilling. the product of distilling
kekule formula;a closed chain of 6 carbon atoms with hydrogen atoms attached
unsaturated fatty acid;a fatty acid whose carbon chain can absorb additional hydrogen
fermium;a radioactive transuranic metallic element produced by bombarding plutonium with neutrons
curacao;flavored with sour orange peel
s;an abundant tasteless odorless multivalent nonmetallic element. best known in yellow crystals. occurs in many sulphide and sulphate minerals and even in native form (especially in volcanic regions)
saccharic acid;a white dicarboxylic acid formed from oxidation of sugar or starch
strychnine;an alkaloid poison extracted chiefly from nux vomica. formerly used as a stimulant
aqua fortis;used especially in the production of fertilizers and explosives and rocket fuels
drill steel;carbon steel used for rock drills and dowels
monoamine neurotransmitter;a monoamine that is functionally important in neural transmission
antivenin;an antitoxin that counteracts the effects of venom from the bite of a snake or insect or other animal
buffered aspirin;aspirin coated with a substance capable of neutralizing acid (trade name bufferin)
sacramental wine;used in a communion service
cheoplastic metal;any low-fusing alloy used in cheoplasty (molding artificial teeth)
filtrate;a gas or liquid that has been passed through a filter
agglutinin;an antibody that causes agglutination of a specific antigen
calcium;a white metallic element that burns with a brilliant light. the fifth most abundant element in the earth's crust. an important component of most plants and animals
type metal;an alloy of tin and lead and antimony used to make printing type
nectar;fruit juice especially when undiluted
phenothiazine;a compound used primarily in veterinary medicine to rid farm animals of internal parasites
rape oil;edible light yellow to brown oil from rapeseed used also as a lubricant or illuminant
thiocyanate;a salt of thiocyanic acid. formed when alkaline cyanides are fused with sulfur
coffee liqueur;coffee-flavored liqueur
spritzer;wine mixed with a sparkling water
copalite;partly mineralized copal dug from the ground
punch;an iced mixed drink usually containing alcohol and prepared for multiple servings. normally served in a punch bowl
tetradecanoic acid;a saturated fatty acid occurring naturally in animal and vegetable fats
fumaric acid;a colorless crystalline acid with a fruity taste. used in making polyester resins
lead acetate;a poisonous white solid (pb[ch3co]2) used in dyeing cotton and in making enamels and varnishes
tetrahalide;any halide containing four halogen atoms in it molecules
glycerole;a medicine made by mixing a substance in glycerin
manganic acid;a dibasic acid (h2mno4) found only in solution and in manganate salts
preparation;a substance prepared according to a formula
thymic acid;a colorless crystalline solid used in perfume or preserving biological specimens or in embalming or medically as a fungicide or antiseptic
elinvar;elinvar is a trademark for a kind of nickel-chromium steel used for watch springs because its elasticity is constant over a wide range of temperatures
schenk beer;beer brewed for immediate consumption
benzoyl peroxide;a white crystalline peroxide used in bleaching (flour or oils or fats) and as a catalyst for free radical reactions
rubidium;a soft silvery metallic element of the alkali metal group. burns in air and reacts violently in water. occurs in carnallite and lepidolite and pollucite
sassafras oil;oil from root bark of sassafras trees. used in perfumery and as a disinfectant
cognac;high quality grape brandy distilled in the cognac district of france
gunflint;the piece of flint that provides the igniting spark in a flintlock weapon
k;a light soft silver-white metallic element of the alkali metal group. oxidizes rapidly in air and reacts violently with water. is abundant in nature in combined forms occurring in sea water and in carnallite and kainite and sylvite
paraffin;a non-aromatic saturated hydrocarbon with the general formula cnh(2n+2)
potassium nitrate;(kno3) used especially as a fertilizer and explosive
atomic number;a sliver-white metallic element of the platinum group that resembles platinum. occurs in some copper and nickel ores. does not tarnish at ordinary temperatures and is used (alloyed with gold) in jewelry
aqua regia;a yellow fuming corrosive mixture of nitric and hydrochloric acid that dissolves metals (including gold)
coolant;a fluid (gas or liquid) used to cool a system. transfers heat away from one part to another
turpentine;volatile liquid distilled from turpentine oleoresin. used as paint thinner and solvent and medicinally
lw;a radioactive transuranic element synthesized from californium
benzofuran;a colorless oily compound extracted from coal tar and used in manufacturing synthetic resins
suds;fermented alcoholic beverage brewed from malt and hops
sulfanilic acid;a crystalline acid made from aniline and used as a dye
fumes;gases ejected from an engine as waste products
glutamic acid;an amino acid occurring in proteins. important in the nitrogen metabolism of plants. used in monosodium glutamate to enhance the flavor of meats
oxygen acid;any acid that contains oxygen
ployurethan;any of various polymers containing the urethane radical. a wide variety of synthetic forms are made and used as adhesives or plastics or paints or rubber
sorbic acid;a white crystalline carboxylic acid used as a preservative
bitumen;any of various naturally occurring impure mixtures of hydrocarbons
ammonia;a pungent gas compounded of nitrogen and hydrogen
sternutator;a chemical substance that causes sneezing and coughing and crying. 'police used a sternutatory to subdue the mob'
iodocompound;a compound containing the covalent iodine radical
dammar resin;any of various hard resins from trees of the family dipterocarpaceae and of the genus agathis. especially the amboyna pine
malt;alcoholic beverage made with malt
cerium;a ductile gray metallic element of the lanthanide series. used in lighter flints. the most abundant of the rare-earth group
polyurethane foam;a foam made by adding water to polyurethane plastics
hydride;any compound formed by the union of hydrogen and other elements
plumbago;used as a lubricant and as a moderator in nuclear reactors
martini;gin (or vodka) with dry vermouth
cd;a soft bluish-white ductile malleable toxic bivalent metallic element. occurs in association with zinc ores
atomic number;a nonmetallic univalent element. usually a yellow irritating toxic flammable gas. a powerful oxidizing agent. recovered from fluorite or cryolite or fluorapatite
polypeptide;a peptide containing 10 to more than 100 amino acids
cinnamene;a colorless oily liquid. the monomer for polystyrene
fuel oil;a petroleum product used for fuel
propane;colorless gas found in natural gas and petroleum. used as a fuel
vinylbenzene;a colorless oily liquid. the monomer for polystyrene
ethanamide;a colorless solid amide of acetic acid used as a solvent and in the synthesis of organic compounds
picric acid;a yellow toxic highly explosive strong acid. used in high explosives and as a dye and in chemical reactions
triolein;a naturally occuring glyceride of oleic acid that is found in fats and oils
carotin;an orange isomer of an unsaturated hydrocarbon found in many plants. is converted into vitamin a in the liver
beeswax;a yellow to brown wax secreted by honeybees to build honeycombs
carboxymethyl cellulose;an acid derivative of cellulose
barium sulphate;a white insoluble radiopaque powder used as a pigment
kumis;an alcoholic beverage made from fermented mare's milk. made originally by nomads of central asia
radon;a radioactive gaseous element formed by the disintegration of radium. the heaviest of the inert gasses. occurs naturally (especially in areas over granite) and is considered a hazard to health
ca;a white metallic element that burns with a brilliant light. the fifth most abundant element in the earth's crust. an important component of most plants and animals
damar;any of various hard resins from trees of the family dipterocarpaceae and of the genus agathis. especially the amboyna pine
iodide;a salt or ester of hydriodic acid
wood alcohol;a light volatile flammable poisonous liquid alcohol. used as an antifreeze and solvent and fuel and as a denaturant for ethyl alcohol
phosphate;carbonated drink with fruit syrup and a little phosphoric acid
atomic number;a soft silvery metallic element. a rare earth of the lanthanide series. it occurs in gadolinite and monazite and xenotime
deae cellulose;used for chromatography
sour mash whiskey;any whiskey distilled from sour mash
calcium cyanamide;a compound used as a fertilizer and as a source of nitrogen compounds
sunflower seed oil;oil from sunflower seeds
guinea gold;brass with enough copper to give it a reddish tint. used for plumbing pipe and other brass hardware and in cheap jewelry
pentanoic acid;a clear liquid carboxylic acid used in perfumes and drugs
naphthalene;a white crystalline strong-smelling hydrocarbon made from coal tar or petroleum and used in organic synthesis and as a fumigant
scotch;whiskey distilled in scotland. especially whiskey made from malted barley in a pot still
au;a soft yellow malleable ductile (trivalent and univalent) metallic element. occurs mainly as nuggets in rocks and alluvial deposits. does not react with most chemicals but is attacked by chlorine and aqua regia
glyoxaline;an organic base c3h4n2. a histamine inhibitor
uracil;a base found in rna (but not in dna) and derived from pyrimidine. pairs with adenine
beverage;any liquid suitable for drinking: 'may i take your beverage order?'
phosgene;a colorless poisonous gas that smells like new-mown hay. used in chemical warfare
lac wax;a hard wax separated from shellac by its insolubility in alcohol
hyssop oil;used chiefly in liqueurs
nitrate;a salt or ester of nitric acid
slush;partially melted snow
neon;a colorless odorless gaseous element that give a red glow in a vacuum tube. one of the six inert gasses. occurs in the air in small amounts
nucleoside;a glycoside formed by partial hydrolysis of a nucleic acid
casein;a milk protein used in making e.g. plastics and adhesives
curacoa;flavored with sour orange peel
atomic number;a radioactive transuranic element synthesized by bombarding curium with carbon ions. 7 isotopes are known
thyroprotein;a preparation made from iodinated protein and having an action similar to thyroxine
bottomland;low-lying alluvial land near a river
thiodiphenylamine;a compound used primarily in veterinary medicine to rid farm animals of internal parasites
laevulose;a simple sugar found in honey and in many ripe fruits
monell metal;an alloy of nickel and copper and other metals (such as iron and/or manganese and/or aluminum)
atomic number;a hard brittle gray polyvalent metallic element that resembles iron but is not magnetic. used in making steel. occurs in many minerals
saponin;any of various plant glucosides that form soapy lathers when mixed and agitated with water. used in detergents and foaming agents and emulsifiers
hydrogen iodide;a colorless gas that yields hydroiodic acid in aqueous solution
mescal;a colorless mexican liquor distilled from fermented juices of certain desert plants of the genus agavaceae (especially the century plant)
cows;milk obtained from dairy cows
nonfat dry milk;dehydrated skimmed milk
distilled water;water that has been purified by distillation
tear gas;a gas that makes the eyes fill with tears but does not damage them. used in dispersing crowds
manganese;a hard brittle gray polyvalent metallic element that resembles iron but is not magnetic. used in making steel. occurs in many minerals
thiocyanic acid;an unstable acid that can be obtained by distilling a thiocyanate salt
dioxin;any of several toxic or carcinogenic hydrocarbons that occur as impurities in herbicides
fatty acid;any of a class of aliphatic monocarboxylic acids that form part of a lipid molecule and can be derived from fat by hydrolysis
potassium iodide;a crystalline salt in organic synthesis and in making photographic emulsions and in iodized table salt
dy;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. forms compounds that are highly magnetic
atomic number;a common nonmetallic element belonging to the halogens. best known as a heavy yellow irritating toxic gas. used to purify water and as a bleaching agent and disinfectant. occurs naturally only as a salt (as in sea water)
cyder;alcoholic drink from fermented cider ('cider' and 'cyder' are european (especially british) usage for the fermented beverage)
dihydric alcohol;any of a class of alcohols having 2 hydroxyl groups in each molecule
blue vitriol;hydrated blue crystalline form of copper sulfate
tubocurarine;a toxic alkaloid found in certain tropical south american trees that is a powerful relaxant for striated muscles. used by south american indians as an arrow poison. 'curare acts by blocking cholinergic transmission at the myoneural junction'
atomic number;a soft silver-white ductile metallic element (liquid at normal temperatures). the most electropositive and alkaline metal
rare earth element;any element of the lanthanide series (atomic numbers 57' through 71')
blue copperas;hydrated blue crystalline form of copper sulfate
caustic potash;a potassium compound often used in agriculture and industry
balm of gilead;a fragrant oleoresin
vinyl cyanide;a colorless liquid unsaturated nitrile made from propene
ge;a brittle gray crystalline element that is a semiconducting metalloid (resembling silicon) used in transistors. occurs in germanite and argyrodite
east india kino;reddish or black juice or resin from certain trees of the genus pterocarpus and used in medicine and tanning etc
formaldehyde;a colorless poisonous gas. made by the oxidation of methanol
bone oil;dark-colored ill-smelling oil obtained by carbonizing bone. used especially in sheep dips and in denaturing alcohol
ra;an intensely radioactive metallic element that occurs in minute amounts in uranium ores
ethanedioic acid;a toxic colorless crystalline organic acid found in oxalis and other plants. used as a bleach and rust remover and in chemical analysis
copolymer;a polymer consisting of two or more different monomers
cotes de provence;a wine from southeastern france on the mediterranean coast
suberic acid;a dicarboxylic acid found in cork
hydroxyacetic acid;a translucent crystalline compound found in sugar cane and sugar beets and unripe grapes
atomic number;a soft gray malleable metallic element that resembles tin but discolors on exposure to air. it is highly toxic and is used in rodent and insect poisons. occurs in zinc blende and some iron ores
dichromate;a salt of the hypothetical dichromic acid
hexose;a monosaccharide that contains six carbon atoms per molecule
lipoid;any oily organic compound insoluble in water but soluble in organic solvents. essential structural component of living cells (along with proteins and carbohydrates)
soft solder;solder that melts at a relatively low temperature
atomic number;a radioactive transuranic metallic element produced by bombarding plutonium with neutrons
halite;as white crystalline solid consisting mainly of sodium chloride
tripalmitin;a triglyceride of palmitic acid
lead tetraethyl;a clear oily poisonous liquid added to gasoline to prevent knocking
quenched steel;steel that has been hardened by immersing it in water or oil to cool it
gin and it;gin and sweet vermouth
kerosene;a flammable hydrocarbon oil used as fuel in lamps and heaters
gamboge;a gum resin used as a yellow pigment and a purgative
kutch;tannin extract derived from any of several mangrove barks of pacific areas
tartrate;a salt or ester of tartaric acid
sulfur;an abundant tasteless odorless multivalent nonmetallic element. best known in yellow crystals. occurs in many sulphide and sulphate minerals and even in native form (especially in volcanic regions)
wax;any of various substances of either mineral origin or plant or animal origin. they are solid at normal temperatures and insoluble in water
ricin;a toxic protein extracted from castor beans. used as a chemical reagent
glyceraldehyde;a sweet crystalline aldehyde formed by the breakdown of sugars
boracic acid;any of various acids containing boron and oxygen
atomic number;a radioactive transuranic element. discovered by bombarding curium with alpha particles
prothrombin;a protein in blood plasma that is the inactive precursor of thrombin
erythrocytolysin;any substance that can cause lysis (destruction) of erythrocytes (red blood cells) and the release of their hemoglobin
pyrites;any of various metallic-looking sulfides (of which pyrite is the commonest)
hyaluronic acid;a viscous polysaccharide acid found in connective tissues and in lubricating fluids in the body
gin;strong liquor flavored with juniper berries
unh;a transuranic element
blood sugar;glucose in the bloodstream
pentoxide;an oxide containing five atoms of oxygen in the molecule
limeade;sweetened beverage of lime juice and water
heptane;a colorless volatile highly flammable liquid obtained from petroleum and used as an anesthetic or a solvent or in determining octane ratings
e;a radioactive transuranic element produced by bombarding plutonium with neutrons
swedish iron;wrought iron of high purity made in sweden
sparkling water;effervescent beverage artificially charged with carbon dioxide
titanium;a light strong gray lustrous corrosion-resistant metallic element used in strong light-weight alloys (as for airplane parts). the main sources are rutile and ilmenite
copper oxide;an oxide of copper
pilsener;pale beer with strong flavor of hops. especially a bohemian beer
philter;a drink credited with magical power. can make the one who takes it love the one who gave it
proline;an amino acid that is found in many proteins (especially collagen)
orthophosphate;a salt of phosphoric acid
lanthanon;any element of the lanthanide series (atomic numbers 57' through 71')
egg cream;made of milk and flavored syrup with soda water
sulfur oxide;any of several oxides of sulphur
serine;a sweetish crystalline amino acid involved in the synthesis by the body of cysteine
collagen;a fibrous scleroprotein in bone and cartilage and tendon and other connective tissue. yields gelatin on boiling
tc;a crystalline metallic element not found in nature. occurs as one of the fission products of uranium
ribonucleic acid;a nucleic acid that transmits genetic information from dna to the cytoplasm. controls certain chemical processes in the cell
methacrylic acid;an unsaturated acid (c4h6o2) used to make resins and plastics
np;a radioactive transuranic metallic element. found in trace amounts in uranium ores. a by-product of the production of plutonium
dental amalgam;an alloy of metal with another metal (usually silver) used by dentists to fill cavities in teeth
alkali;any of various water-soluble compounds capable of turning litmus blue and reacting with an acid to form a salt and water. 'bases include oxides and hydroxides of metals and ammonia'
jaggary;unrefined brown sugar made from palm sap
nitric acid;used especially in the production of fertilizers and explosives and rocket fuels
matter;that which has mass and occupies space. 'an atom is the smallest indivisible unit of matter'
ac;a radioactive element of the actinide series. found in uranium ores
nitre;(kno3) used especially as a fertilizer and explosive
steroid alcohol;any of a group of natural steroid alcohols derived from plants or animals. they are waxy insoluble substances
pb;a soft heavy toxic malleable metallic element. bluish white when freshly cut but tarnishes readily to dull gray. 'the children were playing with lead soldiers'
absolute alcohol;ethyl alcohol containing no more than 1% water
mo;a polyvalent metallic element that resembles chromium and tungsten in its properties. used to strengthen and harden steel
fm;a radioactive transuranic metallic element produced by bombarding plutonium with neutrons
alcohol;any of a series of volatile hydroxyl compounds that are made from hydrocarbons by distillation
chemical compound;"(chemistry) a substance formed by chemical union of two or more elements or ingredients in definite proportion by weight"
f;a nonmetallic univalent element. usually a yellow irritating toxic flammable gas. a powerful oxidizing agent. recovered from fluorite or cryolite or fluorapatite
aluminium chloride;a chloride used as a wood preservative or catalyst
fizz;an effervescent beverage (usually alcoholic)
spiegel iron;pig iron containing manganese. used as a deoxidizing agent and to raise the manganese content in making steel
oil hardened steel;steel that is quenched in oil
rhenium;a rare heavy polyvalent metallic element that resembles manganese chemically and is used in some alloys. is obtained as a by-product in refining molybdenum
element;"any of the more than 100 known substances (of which 93 occur naturally) that cannot be separated into simpler substances and that singly or in combination constitute all matter"
plutonium;a highly fissionable isotope of plutonium that is used in atomic weapons and as a reactor fuel. produced by irradiating uranium 238 with slow electrons
burgundy wine;table wine from the burgundy region of france or any burgundy-type wine made elsewhere
chocolate milk;milk flavored with chocolate syrup
sauterne;semisweet golden-colored table or dessert wine from around bordeaux in france. similar wine from california
acetaldehyde;a colorless volatile water-soluble liquid aldehyde used chiefly in manufacture of acetic acid and perfumes and drugs
thyronine;a phenolic amino acid of which thyroxine is a derivative
stinger;made of creme de menthe and brandy
cofactor;a substance (as a coenzyme) that must join with another to produce a given result
denatured alcohol;ethyl alcohol that is unfit for drinking but is still useful for other purposes
antifreeze;a liquid added to the water in a cooling system to lower its freezing point
liquid oxygen;a bluish transparent magnetic liquid obtained by compressing gaseous oxygen. used as an oxidizer in rocket propellants
dichloroethyl sulfide;a toxic war gas that raises blisters and attacks the eyes and lungs
dioxide;an oxide containing two atoms of oxygen in the molecule
atomic number;a soft white precious univalent metallic element having the highest electrical and thermal conductivity of any metal. occurs in argentite and in free form. used in coins and jewelry and tableware and photography
acetylcholine;a neurotransmitter that is a derivative of choline. released at the ends of nerve fibers in the somatic and parasympathetic nervous systems
hydrofluoric acid;a weak poisonous liquid acid. formed by solution of hydrogen fluoride in water
racemic acid;the optically inactive form of tartaric acid that is often found in grape juice
sodium cyanide;a white poisonous salt (nacn) used in electroplating
bottom;low-lying alluvial land near a river
evaporated milk;milk concentrated by evaporation
pepsi cola;pepsi_cola is a trademarked cola
oxalate;a salt or ester of oxalic acid
palmitin;an ester of glycerol and palmitic acid
motor oil;oil used to lubricate the moving parts of a motor
potassium hydroxide;a potassium compound often used in agriculture and industry
activated carbon;powdered or granular carbon used for purifying by adsorption. given orally (as a slurry) it is an antidote for some kinds of poisons
niter;(kno3) used especially as a fertilizer and explosive
zombi;several kinds of rum with fruit juice and usually apricot liqueur
fen;low-lying wet land with grassy vegetation. usually is a transition zone between land and water
alpha iron;a magnetic allotrope of iron. stable below 906 degrees centigrade
argonon;any of the chemically inert gaseous elements of the helium group (group 8a or 0 of the periodic table)
malt liquor;alcoholic beverage made with malt
margarita;tequila and triple sec with lime and lemon juice
glauber s salts;(na2so4.10h2o) a colorless salt used as a cathartic
soyabean oil;oil from soya beans
fossil oil;a dark oil consisting mainly of hydrocarbons
repellant;a chemical substance that repels
ornithine;an amino acid important in the formation of urea
tea;a beverage made by steeping tea leaves in water. 'iced tea is a cooling drink'
oxaloacetate;a salt or ester of oxalacetic acid
lutecium;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. usually occurs in association with yttrium
whisky sour;a sour made with whiskey
sarsaparilla;carbonated drink flavored with an extract from sarsaparilla root or with birch oil and sassafras
octane;any isomeric saturated hydrocarbon found in petroleum and used as a fuel and solvent
manzanilla;very dry pale sherry from spain
blow gas;the gas leaving a generator during a blow period
animal starch;the form in which carbohydrate are stored
shale oil;oil extracted from oil shale by heating
lipid;any oily organic compound insoluble in water but soluble in organic solvents. essential structural component of living cells (along with proteins and carbohydrates)
basic iron;pig iron containing a high percentage of phosphorus. used in making steel by a process that removes the phosphorus
glycogen;the form in which carbohydrate are stored
pvc;a polymer of vinyl chloride used instead of rubber in electric cables
lipoprotein;a conjugated protein having a lipid component. the principal means for transporting lipids in the blood
soot;a black colloidal substance consisting wholly or principally of amorphous carbon and used to make pigments and ink
stachyose;a tetrasaccharide found in the tubers of the chinese artichoke
flint;a hard kind of stone. a form of silica more opaque than chalcedony
hafnium;a gray tetravalent metallic element that resembles zirconium chemically and is found in zirconium minerals. used in filaments for its ready emission of electrons
tool steel;alloy steel that is suitable for making tools. is hard a tough and can retain a cutting edge
maple sugar;sugar made from the sap of the sugar maple tree
dodecanoic acid;a crystalline fatty acid occuring as glycerides in natural fats and oils (especially coconut oil and palm-kernel oil)
atomic number;a common nonmetallic element that is normally a colorless odorless tasteless inert diatomic gas. constitutes 78 percent of the atmosphere by volume. a constituent of all living tissues
pm;a soft silvery metallic element of the rare earth group having no stable isotope. was discovered in radioactive form as a fission product of uranium
b;a trivalent metalloid element. occurs both in a hard black crystal and in the form of a yellow or brown powder
mv;a radioactive transuranic element synthesized by bombarding einsteinium with alpha particles
atomic number;a tetravalent nonmetallic element. next to oxygen it is the most abundant element in the earth's crust. occurs in clay and feldspar and granite and quartz and sand. used as a semiconductor in transistors
barium peroxide;a white toxic powder obtained by heating barium oxide in air
spice;aromatic substances of vegetable origin used as a preservative
negus;wine and hot water with sugar and lemon juice and nutmeg
rennet;a substance that curdles milk in making cheese and junket
keratin;a fibrous scleroprotein that occurs in the outer layer of the skin and in horny tissues such as hair feathers nails and hooves
unnilhexium;a transuranic element
land;"what plants grow in (especially with reference to its quality or use). 'the land had never been plowed'. 'good agricultural soil'"
kr;a colorless element that is one of the six inert gasses. occurs in trace amounts in air
scotch whisky;whiskey distilled in scotland. especially whiskey made from malted barley in a pot still
periodic acid;any oxygen-containing acid of iodine
2 hydroxybenzoic acid;a white crystalline substance with a bitter aftertaste. used as a fungicide or in making aspirin or dyes or perfumes
unnilseptium;a transuranic element that has not been found in nature
atomic number;a hard malleable ductile silvery metallic element that is resistant to corrosion. used in alloys. occurs in pentlandite and smaltite and garnierite and millerite
screwdriver;vodka and orange juice
tolu;aromatic yellowish brown balsam from the tolu balsam tree used especially in cough syrups
silicide;any of various compounds of silicon with a more electropositive element or radical
acetylsalicylic acid;an analgesic anti-inflammatory drug (trade names bayer and empirin) usually taken in tablet form. also used as an antipyretic
cu;a ductile malleable reddish-brown corrosion-resistant diamagnetic metallic element. occurs in various minerals but is the only metal that occurs abundantly in large masses. used as an electrical and thermal conductor
soda niter;(nano3) used especially as a fertilizer and explosive
polymeric amide;a polymer containing repeated amide groups
quagmire;a soft wet area of low-lying land that sinks underfoot
proof spirit;a mixture containing half alcohol by volume at 60 degrees fahrenheit
gas;a volatile flammable mixture of hydrocarbons (hexane and heptane and octane etc.) derived from petroleum. used mainly as a fuel in internal-combustion engines
bagasse;the dry dusty pulp that remains after juice is extracted from sugar cane or similar plants
glyceric aldehyde;a sweet crystalline aldehyde formed by the breakdown of sugars
unnilquintium;a transuranic element that has not been found in nature
glycerol trimargarate;a glyceryl ester of margaric acid
caffeine;a bitter alkaloid found in coffee and tea that is responsible for their stimulating effects
linseed oil;a drying oil extracted from flax seed and used in making such things as oil paints
bearing brass;a brass bushing or a lining for a bearing
philtre;a drink credited with magical power. can make the one who takes it love the one who gave it
balm;any of various aromatic resinous substances used for healing and soothing
californium;a radioactive transuranic element. discovered by bombarding curium with alpha particles
holmium;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. occurs together with yttrium. forms highly magnetic compounds
mint julep;bourbon and sugar and mint over crushed ice
oxalic acid;a toxic colorless crystalline organic acid found in oxalis and other plants. used as a bleach and rust remover and in chemical analysis
monosaccharose;a simple sugar (like sucrose or fructose) that does not hydrolyse to give other sugars. the simplest group of carbohydrates
amino acid;building block of proteins. containing an amino group and a carboxylic acid group
benzoate of soda;a white crystalline salt used as a food preservative and antiseptic
coal tar;a tar formed from distillation of bituminous coal. coal tar can be further distilled to give various aromatic compounds
asafetida;the gum resin of various plants. has strong taste and odor. formerly used as an antispasmodic
tallow;obtained from suet and used in making soap, candles and lubricants
rn;a radioactive gaseous element formed by the disintegration of radium. the heaviest of the inert gasses. occurs naturally (especially in areas over granite) and is considered a hazard to health
soil;"what plants grow in (especially with reference to its quality or use). 'the land had never been plowed'. 'good agricultural soil'"
bitter;(british) dry sharp-tasting ale with strong flavor of hops
peroxide;an inorganic compound containing the divalent ion -o-o-
java;a beverage consisting of an infusion of ground coffee beans. 'he ordered a cup of coffee'
seal oil;a pale yellow to red-brown fatty oil obtained from seal blubber. used in making soap and dressing leather and as a lubricant
albuminoid;a simple protein found in horny and cartilaginous tissues and in the lens of the eye
balsam capivi;an oleoresin used in varnishes and ointments
low carbon steel;steel with less than 0.15% carbon
propanamide;the amide of propionic acid (c2h5conh2)
nickel;a hard malleable ductile silvery metallic element that is resistant to corrosion. used in alloys. occurs in pentlandite and smaltite and garnierite and millerite
disaccharide;any of a variety of carbohydrates that yield two monosaccharide molecules on complete hydrolysis
potassium dichromate;an orange-red salt used in making dyes and in photography
soave;dry white italian wine from verona
carnauba wax;hard yellowish to brownish wax from leaves of the carnauba palm used especially in floor waxes and polishes
rhine wine;any of several white wines from the rhine river valley in germany ('hock' is british usage)
lithia water;mineral water containing lithium salts
bronze;an alloy of copper and tin and sometimes other elements. also any copper-base alloy containing other elements in place of tin
trimer;a polymer (or a molecule of a polymer) consisting of three identical monomers
lox;a bluish transparent magnetic liquid obtained by compressing gaseous oxygen. used as an oxidizer in rocket propellants
promethium;a soft silvery metallic element of the rare earth group having no stable isotope. was discovered in radioactive form as a fission product of uranium
azote;an obsolete name for nitrogen
zirconium;a lustrous gray strong metallic element resembling titanium. it is used in nuclear reactors as a neutron absorber. it occurs in baddeleyite but is obtained chiefly from zircon
putrescine;a colorless crystalline ptomaine with a foul odor that is produced in decaying animal matter
claret;dry red bordeaux or bordeaux-like wine
spirits;distilled rather than fermented
aminoalkane;a compound derived from ammonia by replacing hydrogen atoms by univalent hydrocarbon radicals
madeira;amber-colored dessert wine from madeira
hot work steel;an alloy steel that remains hard at a red heat. used to make metal-cutting tools
recombinant dna;genetically engineered dna made by recombining fragments of dna from different organisms
wool fat;a yellow viscous animal oil extracted from wool. a mixture of fatty acids and esters. used in some ointments and cosmetics
cardiac glycoside;obtained from a number of plants and used to stimulate the heart in cases of heart failure
tung oil;a yellow oil obtained from the seeds of the tung tree
isoleucine;an essential amino acid. isomeric with leucine
arsenous oxide;a white powdered poisonous trioxide of arsenic. used in manufacturing glass and as a pesticide and weed killer
pink lady;gin and brandy with lemon juice and grenadine shaken with an egg white and ice
oleic acid;a colorless oily liquid occurring as a glyceride in almost all natural fats. used in making soap and cosmetics and ointments and lubricating oils
gluten;a protein substance that remains when starch is removed from cereal grains. gives cohesiveness to dough
rickey;made of sweetened lime juice and soda water usually with liquor
serum globulin;globulins occurring blood serum and containing most of the antibodies of the blood
crude oil;a dark oil consisting mainly of hydrocarbons
calcium oxide;a white crystalline oxide used in the production of calcium hydroxide
co;a heavy odorless colorless gas formed during respiration and by the decomposition of organic substances. absorbed from the air by plants in photosynthesis
o;a nonmetallic bivalent element that is normally a colorless odorless tasteless nonflammable diatomic gas. constitutes 28 percent of the atmosphere by volume. the most abundant element in the earth's crust
arsine;a poisonous colorless flammable gas used in organic synthesis and to dope transistors and as a poison gas in warfare
propenyl alcohol;an unsaturated primary alcohol present in wood spirit. use to make resins and plasticizers and pharmaceuticals
muscadet;dry white wine from the loire valley in france
potassium alum;a white crystalline double sulfate of aluminum: the potassium double sulfate of aluminum
undecylenic acid;an acid that is a component of perspiration
titanium dioxide;a white powder used as a pigment for its high covering power and durability
nickel steel;an alloy steel containing nickel
rye whiskey;distilled from rye or rye and malt
bayer;an analgesic anti-inflammatory drug (trade names bayer and empirin) usually taken in tablet form. also used as an antipyretic
copper base alloy;any alloy whose principal component is copper
silicon;a tetravalent nonmetallic element. next to oxygen it is the most abundant element in the earth's crust. occurs in clay and feldspar and granite and quartz and sand. used as a semiconductor in transistors
myeline;a white fatty substance that forms a medullary sheath around the axis cylinder of some nerve fibers
propene;a flammable gas obtained by cracking petroleum. used in organic synthesis
canada balsam;yellow transparent exudate of the balsam fir. used as a transparent cement in optical devices (especially in microscopy) and as a mounting medium
blended whiskey;mixture of two or more whiskeys or of a whiskey and neutral spirits
sarcosine;a sweetish crystalline amino acid
permanganic acid;an unstable purple acid (hmno4) known only in solution or of permanganate salts
butterfat;the fatty substance of milk from which butter is made
quicklime;a white crystalline oxide used in the production of calcium hydroxide
sodium nitrite;used to preserve and color food especially in meat and fish products. implicated in the formation of suspected carcinogens
california wine;any of various wines produced in california
aspartic acid;a crystalline amino acid occurring naturally in sugar beets and sugar cane
polyethylene;a lightweight thermoplastic. used especially in packaging and insulation
atomic number;a gray lustrous metallic element of the rare earth group. is used in special alloys. occurs in monazite and bastnasite
nucleic acid;any of various acids that are vital constituents of all living cells
dry vermouth;dry pale amber variety
old fashioned;whiskey bitters and sugar with fruit slices
camphor;a resin obtained from the camphor tree. used in making celluloid and liniment
uns;a transuranic element that has not been found in nature
atomic number;a white soft metallic element that tarnishes readily. occurs in rare earth minerals and is usually classified as a rare earth
hydrofluosilicic acid;an unstable poisonous corrosive acid know primarily in the form of its salts
benzol;a colorless liquid hydrocarbon. highly inflammable. carcinogenic
phosphor bronze;a corrosion-resistant bronze containing phosphorus. used in bearings and gears
mulled wine;wine heated with sugar and spices and often citrus fruit
cream of tartar;a salt used especially in baking powder
sulfonate;a salt of sulphonic acid
barium protoxide;an oxide of barium. a whitish toxic powder
curium;a radioactive transuranic metallic element. produced by bombarding plutonium with helium nuclei
alloy steel;steel who characteristics are determined by the addition of other elements in addition to carbon
epoxy resin;a thermosetting resin. used chiefly in strong adhesives and coatings and laminates
costus oil;a yellow volatile essential oil obtained from costusroot. used in perfumes
monoclonal antibody;any of a class of antibodies produced in the laboratory by identical offspring of a hybridoma. very specific for a particular location in the body
atomic number;a radioactive gaseous element formed by the disintegration of radium. the heaviest of the inert gasses. occurs naturally (especially in areas over granite) and is considered a hazard to health
immune serum globulin;a sterile solution of globulins that contains many antibodies normally present in adult human blood
atomic number;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. forms compounds that are highly magnetic
cystine;a crystalline amino acid found in proteins (especially keratin). discovered in bladder stones
hydrogen carbonate;a salt of carbonic acid in which one hydrogen atom has been replaced. an acid carbonate
carbon tetrachloride;a colorless nonflammable liquid used as a solvent for fats and oils. because of its toxicity its use as a cleaning fluid or fire extinguisher has declined
akvavit;scandinavian liquor usually flavored with caraway seeds
pinot chardonnay;dry white chablis-type table wine made from chardonnay grapes
hydrogen chloride;a colorless corrosive gas: hcl
amontillado;pale medium-dry sherry from spain
dishwater;water in which dishes and cooking utensils are washed
hard lead;unrefined lead that is hard because of the impurities it contains
firestone;a piece of flint that is struck to light a fire
drying oil;an oil that hardens in air due to oxidation and is often used as a paint or varnish base
tillage;land that is worked by plowing and sowing and raising crops
benzoic acid;a white crystalline solid occurring in many resins
atomic number;a short-lived radioactive metallic element formed from uranium and disintegrating into actinium and then into lead
atomic number;a heavy gray-white metallic element. the pure form is used mainly in electrical applications. it is found in several ores including wolframite and scheelite
lanthanide;any element of the lanthanide series (atomic numbers 57' through 71')
trichloroacetic acid;a strong acid made by chlorinating acetic acid
lithonate;a white powder (lico3) used in manufacturing glass and ceramics and as a drug. the drug (trade names lithane or lithonate) is used to treat some forms of depression and manic episodes of manic-depressive disorder
birch beer;carbonated drink containing an extract from bark of birch trees
producer gas;a gas made of carbon monoxide and hydrogen and nitrogen. made by passing air over hot coke
rh antibody;rhesus factor antibody
grease;a thick fatty oil (especially one used to lubricate machinery)
mixer;club soda or fruit juice used to mix with alcohol
serotonin;a neurotransmitter involved in e.g. sleep and depression and memory
chert;variety of silica containing microcrystalline quartz
capuccino;equal parts of espresso and hot milk topped with cinnamon and nutmeg and usually whipped cream
kava;(polynesian) an alcoholic drink made from the aromatic roots of the kava shrub
bilge;water accumulated in the bilge of a ship
battery acid;dilute sulfuric acid used in storage batteries
double salt;a solid solution of two simple salts
beer;fermented alcoholic beverage brewed from malt and hops
resin;any of a class of solid or semisolid viscous substances obtained either as exudations from certain plants or prepared by polymerization of simple molecules
formic acid;a colorless. pungent fuming vesicatory liquid acid hcooh found in ants and many plants. used in finishing textiles
skim milk;milk from which the cream has been skimmed
glycine;the principal amino acid in sugar cane
soda pop;a sweet drink containing carbonated water and flavoring. 'in new england they call sodas tonics'
jug wine;inexpensive wine sold in large bottles or jugs
butene;any of three isomeric hydrocarbons c4h8. all used in making synthetic rubbers
fibrinogen;a globulin present in blood plasma. converts to fibrin when blood clots
element;a radioactive transuranic element which has been synthesized
rhone wine;any of various wines from the rhone river valley in france
plexiglas;(trademark) a light transparent weather resistant thermoplastic
atomic number;a toxic nonmetallic element related to sulfur and tellurium. occurs in several allotropic forms. a stable gray metallike allotrope conducts electricity better in the light than in the dark and is used in photocells. occurs in sulfide ores (as pyrite)
oxaloacetic acid;an acid formed by oxidation of maleic acid (as in metabolism of fats and carbohydrates)
tar;any of various dark heavy viscid substances obtained as a residue
polyester;any of numerous synthetic resins. they are light and strong and weather resistant
iodine;a nonmetallic element belonging to the halogens. used especially in medicine and photography and in dyes. occurs naturally only in combination in small quantities (as in sea water or rocks)
ketone body;any of three compounds (acetoacetic acid, acetone, and/or beta-hydroxybutyric acid) found in excess in blood and urine of persons with metabolic disorders
at;a highly unstable radioactive element (the heaviest of the halogen series). a decay product of uranium and thorium
imidazole;an organic base c3h4n2. a histamine inhibitor
abo antibodies;blood type antibodies
ammonium chloride;a white salt used in dry cells
pulp;any soft or soggy mass. 'he pounded it to a pulp'
sulfonic acid;n acid derived from sulphuric acid
arum;sagolike starch obtained from cuckoopint root
ethane;a colorless odorless gas used as fuel
tartar;a salt used especially in baking powder
acrylic;a glassy thermoplastic. can be cast and molded or used in coatings and adhesives
iced coffee;strong sweetened coffee served over ice with cream
wool grease;a yellow viscous animal oil extracted from wool. a mixture of fatty acids and esters. used in some ointments and cosmetics
barium oxide;an oxide of barium. a whitish toxic powder
lacrimator;a gas that makes the eyes fill with tears but does not damage them. used in dispersing crowds
bayberry tallow;a fragrant green wax obtained from the wax myrtle and used in making candles
high density lipoprotein;a lipoprotein that transports cholesterol in the blood. high levels are thought to be associated with decreased risk of coronary heart disease and atherosclerosis
provitamin a;an orange isomer of an unsaturated hydrocarbon found in many plants. is converted into vitamin a in the liver
vanadium;a soft silvery white toxic metallic element used in steel alloys. it occurs in several complex minerals including carnotite and vanadinite
cracklings;the crisp residue left after lard has been rendered
iminazole;an organic base c3h4n2. a histamine inhibitor
hexacosanoic acid;a white solid fatty acid found in waxes (such as beeswax)
polyphosphate;a salt or ester of polyphosphoric acid
swamp;low land that is seasonally flooded. has more woody plants than a marsh and better drainage than a bog
silica;a white or colorless vitreous insoluble solid. various forms occur widely in the earth's crust as quartz or cristobalite or tridymite or lechartelierite
atar;essential oil or perfume obtained from flowers
nickel alloy;an alloy whose main constituent is nickel
sublimate;the product of vaporization of a solid
coal oil;a dark oil consisting mainly of hydrocarbons
calvados;dry apple brandy made in normandy
alpha bronze;a copper-tin alloy that can be worked
neptunium;a radioactive transuranic metallic element. found in trace amounts in uranium ores. a by-product of the production of plutonium
inert gas;any of the chemically inert gaseous elements of the helium group (group 8a or 0 of the periodic table)
irish whiskey;made in ireland chiefly from barley
polymethyl methacrylate;a transparent plastic used as a substitute for glass
hydrochloride;a complex consisting of an organic base in association with hydrogen chloride
fallow;cultivated land that is not seeded for one or more growing seasons
muscatel;wine from muscat grapes
siloxane;any of a large class of compounds that have alternate silicon and oxygen atoms
aluminum bronze;a copper-aluminum alloy with high tensile strength and resistance to corrosion
calcium hydride;a salt-like compound (cah2) used as a reducing agent and source of hydrogen
hydrogen;a nonmetallic univalent element that is normally a colorless and odorless highly flammable diatomic gas. the simplest and lightest and most abundant element in the universe
polyunsaturated fatty acid;an unsaturated fatty acid whose carbon chain has more than one double or triple valence bond per molecule. found chiefly in fish and corn and soybean oil and safflower oil
madia oil;used as a substitute for olive oil
scandium;a white trivalent metallic element. sometimes classified in the rare earth group. occurs in the scandinavian mineral thortveitite
hydrogen fluoride;a colorless poisonous corrosive liquid made by the action of sulphuric acid on calcium fluoride. solutions in water are hydrofluoric acid
alkaline earth methal;any of the bivalent metals (calcium or strontium or barium or magnesium)
lysol;a clear oily brown solution of cresols in soap. used as an antiseptic and disinfectant
fruit drink;a sweetened beverage of diluted fruit juice
silicone polymer;any of a large class of siloxanes that are unusually stable over a wide range of temperatures. used in lubricants and adhesives and coatings and synthetic rubber and electrical insulation
steroid;any of several fat-soluble organic compounds having as a basis 17 carbon atoms in four rings. many have important physiological effects
in;a rare soft silvery metallic element. occurs in small quantities in sphalerite
neurotransmitter;transmits nerve impulses across a synapse
atomic number;a gray tetravalent metallic element that resembles zirconium chemically and is found in zirconium minerals. used in filaments for its ready emission of electrons
adenosine triphosphate;a a nucleotide derived from adenosine that occurs in muscle tissue. the major source of energy for cellular reactions
dripping;fat that exudes from meat while it is being roasted or fried
viscose;obtained by treating cellulose with caustic soda
ig;a class of globulins produced in lymph tissue in vertebrates and that function as antibodies in the immune response
blister copper;an impure form of copper having a black blistered surface
rum sling;a sling made with rum
orange juice concentrate;orange juice that has been concentrated and frozen
rapeseed oil;edible light yellow to brown oil from rapeseed used also as a lubricant or illuminant
peanut oil;a oil from peanuts. used in cooking and making soap. 'groundnut oil' is british usage
copaiba;an oleoresin used in varnishes and ointments
fluxing lime;a white crystalline oxide used in the production of calcium hydroxide
holy water;water that has been blessed by a priest for use in symbolic purification
chlorous acid;(hclo2) a strongly oxidizing acid. known only in solution
essential oil;a volatile oil having the odor or flavor of the plant from which it comes. used in perfume and flavorings
linolenic acid;a liquid polyunsaturated fatty acid that occurs in some plant oils. an essential fatty acid
gum benzoin;gum resin used especially in treating skin irritation
atomic number;a radioactive element of the actinide series. found in uranium ores
polyvinyl acetate;a vinyl polymer used especially in paints or adhesives
atomic number;a silvery ductile metallic element found primarily in bauxite
gasoline;a volatile flammable mixture of hydrocarbons (hexane and heptane and octane etc.) derived from petroleum. used mainly as a fuel in internal-combustion engines
polybutylene;a polymer of butylene. used in lubricants and synthetic rubber
halogen;any of the chemical elements fluorine or chlorine or bromine or iodine or astatine
india ink;a black liquid ink used for printing or writing or drawing
nicotine;an alkaloid poison that occurs in tobacco. used in medicine and as an insecticide
sulfur mustard;a toxic war gas that raises blisters and attacks the eyes and lungs
white gold;a pale alloy of gold usually with platinum or nickel or palladium
v;a soft silvery white toxic metallic element used in steel alloys. it occurs in several complex minerals including carnotite and vanadinite
orangeade;sweetened beverage of diluted orange juice
radiocarbon;a radioactive isotope of carbon
delta iron;an allotrope of iron that is stable between 1403 degrees centigrade and the melting point (= 1532 degrees)
alcohol;a liquor or brew containing alcohol as the active agent. 'alcohol (or drink) ruined him'
dextroglucose;an isomer of glucose that is found in honey and sweet fruits
bone fat;fatty matter in bones extracted with solvents or by boiling or steaming. used chiefly in candles and cheap soaps an in lubricating greases
chocolate;made from baking chocolate or cocoa powder and milk and sugar
everglades;a large subtropical swamp in southern florida that is noted for its wildlife
lysine;an essential amino acid. occurs especially in gelatin and casein
titanium oxide;a white powder used as a pigment for its high covering power and durability
perspex;(trademark) a transparent thermoplastic acrylic resin
beta iron;an allotrope of iron that is the same as alpha iron except that it is nonmagnetic. stable between 768 and 906 degrees centigrade
root beer;carbonated drink containing extracts of roots and herbs
dysprosium;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. forms compounds that are highly magnetic
spiegel;pig iron containing manganese. used as a deoxidizing agent and to raise the manganese content in making steel
aerospace;"the atmosphere and outer space considered as a whole"
be;a light strong brittle gray toxic bivalent metallic element
cyanogen;a colorless toxic gas with a pungent almond odor. has been used in chemical warfare
md;a radioactive transuranic element synthesized by bombarding einsteinium with alpha particles
lubricating oil;a thick fatty oil (especially one used to lubricate machinery)
spirit of turpentine;volatile liquid distilled from turpentine oleoresin. used as paint thinner and solvent and medicinally
black diamond;an inferior dark diamond used in industry for drilling and polishing
te;a brittle silver-white metalloid element that is related to selenium and sulfur. it is used in alloys and as a semiconductor. occurs mainly as tellurides in ores of copper and nickel and silver and gold
corn whiskey;distilled from a mash of not less than 80 percent corn
ground water;underground water that is held in the soil and in pervious rocks
spermaceti;a white waxy substance from oil of the sperm whale
atomic number;a light strong gray lustrous corrosion-resistant metallic element used in strong light-weight alloys (as for airplane parts). the main sources are rutile and ilmenite
uric acid;a white tasteless odorless crystalline product of protein metabolism. found in the blood and urine
chlorpromazine;a drug (trade name thorazine) derived from phenothiazine that has anti-psychotic effects and is used as a sedative and tranquilizer
hemiacetal;an organic compound usually formed as an intermediate product in the preparation of acetals from aldehydes or ketones
corn gluten;gluten prepared from corn
bicarbonate of soda;a white soluble compound used in effervescent drinks and in baking powders and as an antacid
porpoise oil;a yellow fatty oil obtained from porpoises and used as a fine lubricant
propenal;a pungent colorless unsaturated liquid aldehyde made from propene
cod oil;an inferior cod-liver oil that is used in leather manufacturing
coin silver;a silver of the degree of purity established for making legal silver coins
atomic number;a colorless odorless gaseous element that give a red glow in a vacuum tube. one of the six inert gasses. occurs in the air in small amounts
phenylamine;oily poisonous liquid amine obtained from nitrobenzene and used to make dyes and plastics and medicines
beryllium bronze;a copper-base alloy containing beryllium
black lead;used as a lubricant and as a moderator in nuclear reactors
protactinium;a short-lived radioactive metallic element formed from uranium and disintegrating into actinium and then into lead
fish house punch;make of rums and brandy and water or tea sweetened with sugar syrup
wood s alloy;a fusible bismuth-base alloy. melts at about 160 degrees fahrenheit
bi;a heavy brittle diamagnetic trivalent metallic element (resembles arsenic and antimony chemically). usually recovered as a by-product from ores of other metals
adrenalin;a hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla in response to stress (trade name adrenalin). stimulates autonomic nerve action
gum myrrh;aromatic resin used in perfume and incense
sn;a silvery malleable metallic element that resists corrosion. used in many alloys and to coat other metals to prevent corrosion. obtained chiefly from cassiterite where it occurs as tin oxide
trna;the form of rna that attaches the correct amino acid to the protein chain that is being synthesized at the ribosome of the cell (according to directions coded in the mrna)
cyanic acid;a colorless poisonous volatile liquid acid that hydrolyzes readily to ammonia and carbon dioxide
fatty oil;nonvolatile animal or plant oil
aluminium;a silvery ductile metallic element found primarily in bauxite
shark oil;a fatty yellow to brown oil obtained from the livers of sharks. used for dressing leather and as a source of vitamin a
well water;underground water that is held in the soil and in pervious rocks
thyroglobulin;an iodine containing protein that is obtained from the thyroid gland and exhibits the general properties of the globulins
lanthanum;a white soft metallic element that tarnishes readily. occurs in rare earth minerals and is usually classified as a rare earth
julep;bourbon and sugar and mint over crushed ice
atomic number;a radioactive transuranic element synthesized by bombarding einsteinium with alpha particles
chloric acid;(hclo3) a strong unstable acid with an acrid odor found in chlorate salts
soda ash;a sodium salt of carbonic acid. used in making soap powders and glass and paper
rose;pinkish table wine from red grapes whose skins were removed after fermentation began
precipitin;an antibody that causes precipitation when it unites with its antigen
geneva;made in the netherlands
protamine;a simple protein found in fish sperm. rich in arginine. simpler in composition than globulin or albumin. counteracts the anticoagulant effect of heparin
carbon;an abundant nonmetallic tetravalent element occurring in three allotropic forms: amorphous carbon and graphite and diamond. occurs in all organic compounds
tryptophane;an amino acid that is essential for growth and normal metabolism. a precursor of niacin
rye whisky;distilled from rye or rye and malt
cider;a beverage made from juice pressed from apples
pennyroyal oil;aromatic oil from american pennyroyal
propanoic acid;a liquid fatty acid found in milk and sweat and in fuel distillates
elixir of life;a substance believed to maintain life indefinitely
smut;a black colloidal substance consisting wholly or principally of amorphous carbon and used to make pigments and ink
salad oil;any of several edible vegetable oils that can be used in salad dressings
atomic number;a soft yellow malleable ductile (trivalent and univalent) metallic element. occurs mainly as nuggets in rocks and alluvial deposits. does not react with most chemicals but is attacked by chlorine and aqua regia
armagnac;dry brandy distilled in the armagnac district of france
stearic acid;a waxy saturated fatty acid. occurs widely as a glyceride in animal and vegetable fats
histidine;an essential amino acid that is important for the growth and repair of tissue
wormwood oil;a dark bitter oil obtained obtained from wormwood leaves. flavors absinthe liqueurs
divot;a piece of turf dug out of a lawn or fairway (by an animals hooves or a golf club)
isomer;a compound that exists in forms having different arrangements of atoms but the same molecular weight
glycerite;a medicine made by mixing a substance in glycerin
styrofoam;(trademark) a light resilient foam of polystyrene
manganese bronze;a brass with from 1-4% manganese to harden it
butanol;a flammable alcohol derived from butanes and used for solvents
benzene nucleus;a closed chain of 6 carbon atoms with hydrogen atoms attached
calcium hydroxide;a caustic substance (ca(oh)2) produced by heating limestone
sulphur;an abundant tasteless odorless multivalent nonmetallic element. best known in yellow crystals. occurs in many sulphide and sulphate minerals and even in native form (especially in volcanic regions)
octanedioic acid;a dicarboxylic acid found in cork
urea formaldehyde resin;a clear thermosetting resin made from urea and formaldehyde and used in electrical fittings, adhesives, and finishes
thyme camphor;a colorless crystalline solid used in perfume or preserving biological specimens or in embalming or medically as a fungicide or antiseptic
montan wax;a hard wax obtained from lignite
halibut liver oil;a fatty oil from halibut livers that is used as a source of vitamin a
phenol;any of a class of weakly acidic organic compounds. molecule contains one or more hydroxyl groups
thallium;a soft gray malleable metallic element that resembles tin but discolors on exposure to air. it is highly toxic and is used in rodent and insect poisons. occurs in zinc blende and some iron ores
hydroxybenzene;a toxic white soluble crystalline acidic derivative of benzene. used in manufacturing and as a disinfectant and antiseptic
bordeaux;any of several red or white wines produced around bordeaux in france or resembling such wines
balsam of tolu;aromatic yellowish brown balsam from the tolu balsam tree used especially in cough syrups
carbon monoxide gas;an odorless very poisonous gas that is a product of incomplete combustion of carbon
tolu balsam;aromatic yellowish brown balsam from the tolu balsam tree used especially in cough syrups
potassium permanganate;a poisonous salt that forms dark purple crystals and is purple-red when dissolved in water. used as an oxidizing and bleaching agent and as a disinfectant and antiseptic
ethyl alcohol;nonflavored alcohol of 95 percent or 190 proof used for blending with straight whiskies and in making gin and liqueurs
er;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. occurs with yttrium
amalgam;an alloy of metal with another metal (usually silver) used by dentists to fill cavities in teeth
benzene ring;a closed chain of 6 carbon atoms with hydrogen atoms attached
mass;"a large body of matter without definite shape. 'a huge ice mass'"
croton oil;viscid acrid brownish-yellow oil from the seeds of croton tiglium having a violent cathartic action
accaroid resin;an alcohol-soluble resin from australian trees. used in varnishes and in manufacturing paper
pepsi;pepsi_cola is a trademarked cola
sidecar;orange_liqueur with lemon juice and brandy
bismuth;a heavy brittle diamagnetic trivalent metallic element (resembles arsenic and antimony chemically). usually recovered as a by-product from ores of other metals
cohune nut oil;semisolid fat from nuts of the cohune palm. used in cooking and soap making
firedamp;a mixture of gases (mostly methane) that form in coal mines and become explosive when mixed with air
methane;a colorless odorless gas used as a fuel
cellulose ester;any ester of cellulose with an acid
lime hydrate;a caustic substance (ca(oh)2) produced by heating limestone
cellulose xanthate;obtained by treating cellulose with caustic soda
hedeoma oil;aromatic oil from american pennyroyal
sulfate;a salt or ester of sulphuric acid
chaulmoogra oil;an oil from chaulmoogra trees. used in treatment of skin diseases and leprosy
love potion;a drink credited with magical power. can make the one who takes it love the one who gave it
nonmetal;a chemical element lacking typical metallic properties
creosote;a dark oily liquid obtained by distillation of coal tar. used as a preservative for wood
heating oil;a petroleum product used for fuel
bottled gas;hydrocarbon gases, usually propane or butane, kept under pressure
lauric acid;a crystalline fatty acid occuring as glycerides in natural fats and oils (especially coconut oil and palm-kernel oil)
atomic number;a radioactive transuranic metallic element. produced by bombarding plutonium with helium nuclei
polybutene;a polymer of butylene. used in lubricants and synthetic rubber
mocha;superior dark coffee made from beans from arabia
carbonyl;a compound containing metal combined with carbon monoxide
h;a nonmetallic univalent element that is normally a colorless and odorless highly flammable diatomic gas. the simplest and lightest and most abundant element in the universe
dried milk;dehydrated milk
adamant;very hard native crystalline carbon valued as a gem
damask steel;a hard resilient steel often decorated and used for sword blades
isobutylene;used also in making gasoline components
ce;a ductile gray metallic element of the lanthanide series. used in lighter flints. the most abundant of the rare-earth group
slough;a hollow filled with mud
quinine water;lime- or lemon-flavored carbonated water containing quinine
urethane;an ester of carbamic acid
melamine resin;a thermosetting resin formed from melamine and an aldehyde. used in molded products, adhesives, and coatings
hard drink;distilled rather than fermented
amber;a hard yellowish to brownish translucent fossil resin. used for jewelry
hollands;made in the netherlands
champagne;a white sparkling wine either produced in champagne or resembling that produced there
kirsch;from fermented juice of black morello cherries
polyvinyl chloride;a polymer of vinyl chloride used instead of rubber in electric cables
alkene;any unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbon
pisang wax;a wax obtained from the leaves of a plantain
atomic number;a soft silvery-white tetravalent radioactive metallic element. isotope 232 is used as a power source in nuclear reactors. occurs in thorite and in monazite sands
atomic number;a multivalent nonmetallic element of the nitrogen family that occurs commonly in inorganic phosphate rocks and as organic phosphates in all living cells. is highly reactive and occurs in several allotropic forms
decaf;coffee with the caffeine removed
herb tea;tea-like drink made of leaves of various herbs
powdered milk;dehydrated milk
haemoglobin;a conjugated protein composed of heme and globin that gives red blood cells their characteristic color. function primarily to transport oxygen from the lungs to the body tissues
ti;a light strong gray lustrous corrosion-resistant metallic element used in strong light-weight alloys (as for airplane parts). the main sources are rutile and ilmenite
atmosphere;the envelope of gases surrounding any celestial body
naphtha;any of various volatile flammable liquid hydrocarbon mixtures. used chiefly as solvents
sc;a white trivalent metallic element. sometimes classified in the rare earth group. occurs in the scandinavian mineral thortveitite
atomic number;a soft bluish-white ductile malleable toxic bivalent metallic element. occurs in association with zinc ores
gin and tonic;gin and quinine water
cupper;(british) a cup of tea
nylon;a thermoplastic polyamide. a family of high-strength resilient synthetic materials
bell metal;bronze with 3 or 4 parts copper to 1 part tin. used in making bells
sulphate;a salt or ester of sulphuric acid
alkyd;a resin used in adhesives and paints
grid metal;a kind of hard lead that is used for grids in storage batteries
acrylate;a salt or ester of propenoic acid
blubber;an insulating layer of fat under the skin of whales and other large marine mammals. used as a source of oil
nickel bronze;a bronze containing up to 30% nickel
chablis;dry white table wine of chablis france or resembling that wine
sterol;any of a group of natural steroid alcohols derived from plants or animals. they are waxy insoluble substances
alkyd resin;a resin used in adhesives and paints
edible fat;oily or greasy matter making up the bulk of fatty tissue in animals and in seeds and other plant tissue
magnesium sulfate;a salt of magnesium that is taken orally to treat heartburn and constipation and injected to prevent seizures
thulium;a soft silvery metallic element of the rare earth group. isotope 170 emits x-rays and is used in small portable x-ray machines. it occurs in monazite and apatite and xenotime
gum labdanum;a dark brown to greenish oleoresin that has a fragrant odor and is used as a fixative in perfumes. obtained as a juice from certain rockroses
acetylene;a colorless flammable gas used chiefly in welding and in organic synthesis
elastin;a fibrous scleroprotein found in elastic tissues such as the walls of arteries
glycerol;a glyceryl ester obtained by saponification of fats and oils
atomic number;a radioactive transuranic metallic element. discovered by bombarding uranium with helium atoms
high brass;brass with 35% zinc
atomic number;a rare silvery (usually trivalent) metallic element. brittle at low temperatures but liquid above room temperature. occurs in trace amounts in bauxite and zinc ores
scalded milk;milk heated almost to boiling
alkane series;a non-aromatic saturated hydrocarbon with the general formula cnh(2n+2)
urea;the chief solid component of mammalian urine. synthesized from ammonia and carbon dioxide and used as fertilizer and in animal feed and in plastics
leucine;a white crystalline amino acid that is essential for nutrition. obtained by the hydrolysis of most dietary proteins
rum cocktail;rum and lime or lemon juice
gilding metal;a brass that is rich in copper. used to make articles that were to be gilded
atomic number;a ductile gray metallic element of the lanthanide series. used in lighter flints. the most abundant of the rare-earth group
steel;an alloy of iron with small amounts of carbon and manganese. widely used in construction. mechanical properties can be varied over a wide range
zinc;a bluish-white lustrous metallic element. brittle at ordinary temperatures but malleable when heated. used in a wide variety of alloys and in galvanizing iron. it occurs as zinc sulphide in zinc blende
burton;a strong dark english ale (brewed at burton-on-trent in derbyshire)
chalcanthite;hydrated blue crystalline form of copper sulfate
elaeostearic acid;a crystalline unsaturated fatty acid
alkane;a non-aromatic saturated hydrocarbon with the general formula cnh(2n+2)
seltzer;naturally effervescent mineral water
john barleycorn;distilled rather than fermented
atomic number;a nonmetallic univalent element that is normally a colorless and odorless highly flammable diatomic gas. the simplest and lightest and most abundant element in the universe
aldose;a monosaccharide sugar that contains the aldehyde group or is hemiacetal
allotrope;a structurally different form of an element: 'graphite and diamond are allotropes of carbon'
sparkling wine;effervescent wine
silicate;a salt or ester derived from silicic acid
hemolysin;any substance that can cause lysis (destruction) of erythrocytes (red blood cells) and the release of their hemoglobin
half and half;half beer and half porter
water of hydration;the water present in hydrated compounds
gum resin;a mixture of resin and gum
demerara;a light brown raw cane sugar from guyana
barium monoxide;an oxide of barium. a whitish toxic powder
red brass;brass with enough copper to give it a reddish tint. used for plumbing pipe and other brass hardware and in cheap jewelry
fluosilicate;salt of fluosilicic acid
sodium orthophosphate;phosphate of sodium
manioc;a starch made by leaching and drying the root of the cassava plant. the source of tapioca. a staple food in the tropics
birch oil;a liquid ester with a strong odor of wintergreen. applied externally for minor muscle and joint pain
sod;surface layer of ground containing a matt of grass and grass roots
paraffin;from crude petroleum. used for candles and for preservative or waterproof coatings
peptide;two or more amino acids held together by peptide bonds
chicory root;root of the chicory plant roasted and ground to substitute for or adulterate coffee
suet;hard fat around the kidneys and loins in beef and mutton
baryta;any of several compounds of barium
barium dioxide;a white toxic powder obtained by heating barium oxide in air
grape juice;bottled juice of grapes
tristearin;a triglyceride of stearic acid
acetal;any organic compound formed by adding alcohol molecules to aldehyde molecules
atomic number;a brittle gray crystalline element that is a semiconducting metalloid (resembling silicon) used in transistors. occurs in germanite and argyrodite
sulfur dioxide;a toxic gas (so2) that occurs in the gases from volcanoes. used in many manufacturing processes
vinyl polymer;a thermoplastic derived by polymerization from compounds containing the vinyl group
rust;a red or brown oxide coating on iron or steel caused by the action of oxygen and moisture
trichloracetic acid;a strong acid made by chlorinating acetic acid
permalloy;an 80/20 alloy of nickel and iron. easily magnetized and demagnetized
iodoprotein;a protein that contains iodine
acidophilus milk;milk fermented by bacteria. used to treat gastrointestinal disorders
heliosphere;"the region inside the heliopause containing the sun and solar system"
cabernet;superior bordeaux-type red wine from california
propionic acid;a liquid fatty acid found in milk and sweat and in fuel distillates
silicic acid;a jelly-like substance (hydrated silica)
structural steel;a strong steel that is rolled into shapes that are used in construction
iron carbide;the iron carbide constituent of steel and cast iron. very hard and brittle
vitriol;(h2so4) a highly corrosive acid made from sulfur dioxide. widely used in the chemical industry
glycerin jelly;a mixture of glycerin and gelatin that is used in histology for mounting specimens
pilsner;pale beer with strong flavor of hops. especially a bohemian beer
indene;a colorless liquid hydrocarbon extracted from petroleum or coal tar and used in making synthetic resins
bromic acid;an unstable acid used as an oxidizing agent
malt whiskey;whiskey distilled in scotland. especially whiskey made from malted barley in a pot still
sr;a soft silver-white or yellowish metallic element of the alkali metal group. turns yellow in air. occurs in celestite and strontianite
sesame oil;oil obtained from sesame seeds
chartreuse;aromatic green or yellow liqueur flavored with orange peel and hyssop and peppermint. made at monastery near grenoble france
carbolic acid;a toxic white soluble crystalline acidic derivative of benzene. used in manufacturing and as a disinfectant and antiseptic
porter;dark sweet ale brewed from black malt
distillation;a liquid produced by condensation from a vapor during distilling. the product of distilling
cannabin;a poisonous resin obtained from the hemp plant. thought to be the active narcotic agent
atomic number;an intensely radioactive metallic element that occurs in minute amounts in uranium ores
alkali;a mixture of soluble salts found in arid soils and some bodies of water. detrimental to agriculture
calcined lime;a white crystalline oxide used in the production of calcium hydroxide
hdl;a lipoprotein that transports cholesterol in the blood. high levels are thought to be associated with decreased risk of coronary heart disease and atherosclerosis
coke;coca_cola is a trademarked cola
la;a white soft metallic element that tarnishes readily. occurs in rare earth minerals and is usually classified as a rare earth
gum dammar;any of various hard resins from trees of the family dipterocarpaceae and of the genus agathis. especially the amboyna pine
oxybenzene;a toxic white soluble crystalline acidic derivative of benzene. used in manufacturing and as a disinfectant and antiseptic
noble gas;any of the chemically inert gaseous elements of the helium group (group 8a or 0 of the periodic table)
stellite;(trademark) a cobalt-base alloy with chromium and other metals. very hard. used to make cutting tools and for surfaces subject to heavy wear
tantalum;a hard gray lustrous metallic element that is highly corrosion-resistant. occurs in niobite and fergusonite and tantalite
maltose;a white crystalline sugar formed during the digestion of starches
triphosphopyridine;a pyridine ring with three phosphorus groups
french vermouth;dry pale amber variety
glyceric acid;a syrupy acid obtained by oxidation of glycerol or glyceraldehyde
tungstate;a salt of tungstic acid
pinchbeck;an alloy of copper and zinc that is used in cheap jewelry to imitate gold
arsenic;a very poisonous metallic element that has three allotropic forms. arsenic and arsenic compounds are used as herbicides and insecticides and various alloys. found in arsenopyrite and orpiment and realgar
pantothen;a vitamin of the vitamin b complex that performs an important role in the oxidation of fats and carbohydrates and certain amino acids. occurs in many foods
dibasic salt;a salt derived by replacing two hydrogen atoms per molecule
lard oil;oil consisting chiefly of olein that is expressed from lard and used especially as a lubricant, cutting oil or illuminant
hard liquor;distilled rather than fermented
balsam of peru;dark brown syrupy balsam from the peruvian balsam tree used especially in dressing wounds and treating certain skin diseases
amide;any organic compound containing the group -conh2
ptomaine;any of various amines (such as putrescine or cadaverine) formed by the action of putrefactive bacteria
monomer;a simple compound whose molecules can join together to form polymers
medulla;a white fatty substance that forms a medullary sheath around the axis cylinder of some nerve fibers
drinking water;water suitable for drinking
ammonium hydroxide;a water solution of ammonia
capric acid;a fatty acid found in animal oils and fats. has an unpleasant smell resembling goats
neurochemical;any organic substance that occurs in neural activity
table wine;wine containing not more than 14 percent alcohol usually served with a meal
adenosine monophosphate;a nucleotide found in muscle cells and important in metabolism. reversibly convertible to adp and atp
americium;a radioactive transuranic metallic element. discovered by bombarding uranium with helium atoms
calx;a white crystalline oxide used in the production of calcium hydroxide
glutelin;a simple protein found in the seeds of cereals
co;a hard ferromagnetic silver-white bivalent or trivalent metallic element. a trace element in plant and animal nutrition
fermentation alcohol;the intoxicating agent in fermented and distilled liquors. used pure or denatured as a solvent or in medicines and colognes and cleaning solutions and rocket fuel
physostigmine;used in treatment of alzheimer's disease and glaucoma
rf;a radioactive transuranic element which has been synthesized
chrome alum;kcr(so4)2.12h2o. a violet-colored salt used in hide tanning and as a mordant in dyeing
molybdenum;a polyvalent metallic element that resembles chromium and tungsten in its properties. used to strengthen and harden steel
air;a mixture of gases (especially oxygen) required for breathing. the stuff that the wind consists of
cl;a common nonmetallic element belonging to the halogens. best known as a heavy yellow irritating toxic gas. used to purify water and as a bleaching agent and disinfectant. occurs naturally only as a salt (as in sea water)
daiquiri;rum and lime or lemon juice
glutaminic acid;an amino acid occurring in proteins. important in the nitrogen metabolism of plants. used in monosodium glutamate to enhance the flavor of meats
poison gas;(chemical warfare) a gas that is poisonous to breath or contact
kauri gum;resin of the kauri trees of n zealand. found usually as a fossil. also collected for making varnishes and linoleum
coffee capuccino;equal parts of espresso and hot milk topped with cinnamon and nutmeg and usually whipped cream
case hardened steel;steel with a surface that is much harder than the interior metal
fruit juice;drink produced by squeezing or crushing fruit
hard steel;steel with more than 0.3% carbon
bitartrate;an acid tartrate. a hydrogen tartrate
brucine;a bitter alkaloid poison resembling strychnine and extracted from nux vomica
coastland;land in a coastal area
gaba;an amino acid that is found in the central nervous system. acts as an inhibitory neurotransmitter
butadiene;a gaseous hydrocarbon c4h6. used in making synthetic rubbers
chloride;any salt of hydrochloric acid (containing the chloride ion)
diethylaminoethyl cellulose;used for chromatography
cranberry juice;always diluted and sweetened
dippel s oil;dark-colored ill-smelling oil obtained by carbonizing bone. used especially in sheep dips and in denaturing alcohol
capsid;the outer covering of protein surrounding the nucleic acid of a virus
eucalyptus oil;an essential oil obtained from the leaves of eucalypts
gd;a ductile silvery-white ductile ferromagnetic trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group
fusel oil;a mixture of amyl alcohols and propanol and butanol formed from distillation of fermented liquors
cane sugar;sucrose obtained from sugar cane
silver chloride;a chloride used chiefly in the manufacture of photographic emulsions
yellow metal;a brass that has more zinc and is stronger than alpha brass. used in making castings and hot-worked products
atomic number;a soft silvery metallic element of the rare earth group. isotope 170 emits x-rays and is used in small portable x-ray machines. it occurs in monazite and apatite and xenotime
zinc sulphate;a colorless water-soluble powder. used as a mordant or to preserve wood or for the electrodeposition of zinc
cooking oil;any of numerous oils used in cooking
ferritin;a compound containing 20% iron that is found in the intestines and liver and spleen. it is one of the chief forms in which iron is stored in the body
carboloy;(trademark) an alloy based on tungsten with cobalt or nickel as a binder. used in making metal-cutting tools
metaphosphoric acid;a glassy solid acid ([hpo3]n) often used as a dehydrating agent
cobbler;tall sweetened iced drink of wine or liquor with fruit
selenic acid;a strong acid (h2seo4) analogous to sulfuric acid
copal;a brittle aromatic resin used in varnishes
nerve gas;a toxic war gas that is inhaled or absorbed through the skin and has harmful effects on the nervous and respiratory system
sweet oil;mild vegetable oil when used as food. especially olive or edible rape oil
aminobenzine;oily poisonous liquid amine obtained from nitrobenzene and used to make dyes and plastics and medicines
aminobenzoic acid;a derivative of benzoic acid
zombie;several kinds of rum with fruit juice and usually apricot liqueur
ice water;water served ice-cold or with ice
amp;a nucleotide found in muscle cells and important in metabolism. reversibly convertible to adp and atp
dimethylglyoxime;a compound used in analysis as a precipitant for palladium or nickel
drippings;fat that exudes from meat while it is being roasted or fried
xe;a colorless odorless inert gaseous element occurring in the earth's atmosphere in trace amounts
whisky;made from fermented mash of grain
methanol;a light volatile flammable poisonous liquid alcohol. used as an antifreeze and solvent and fuel and as a denaturant for ethyl alcohol
calcium hypochlorite;any hypochlorite of calcium. used as a bleaching agent
margaric acid;a colorless crystalline synthetic fatty acid
xylose;a sugar extracted from wood or straw. used in foods for diabetics
medoc;red burgundy wine from medoc region of france
wood coal;a carbonaceous material obtained by heating wood or other organic matter in the absence of air
atomic number;a heavy brittle metallic element of the platinum group. used in alloys. occurs in natural alloys with platinum or osmium
chromic acid;an unstable acid known only in solution and as chromate salts
lager;beer stored for aging
copaline;partly mineralized copal dug from the ground
glycoprotein;a conjugated protein having a carbohydrate component
hard cider;alcoholic drink from fermented cider ('cider' and 'cyder' are european (especially british) usage for the fermented beverage)
isopropyl alcohol;used as antifreeze or a solvent
antiknock;any of various compounds that are added to gasoline to reduce engine knocking
decanedioic acid;a dicarboxylic acid used to make resins
caustic;any chemical substance that burns or destroys living tissue
milk powder;dehydrated milk
bouncing putty;a soft elastic silicone polymer that increases in elasticity with the application of force. used in the center of golf balls and as shock-absorbent padding
sb;a metallic element having four allotropic forms. used in a wide variety of alloys. found in stibnite
aleurone;granular protein in outermost layer of endosperm of many seeds or cereal grains
cm;a radioactive transuranic metallic element. produced by bombarding plutonium with helium nuclei
xenon;a colorless odorless inert gaseous element occurring in the earth's atmosphere in trace amounts
whale oil;a white to brown oil obtained from whale blubber. formerly used as an illuminant
gasohol;a gasoline substitute consisting of 90% gasoline and 10% grain alcohol from corn
bishop;port wine mulled with oranges and cloves
hypo eutectoid steel;a steel that contains less that 0.9% carbon
skimmed milk;milk from which the cream has been skimmed
azide;a chemical compound containing the azido group combined with an element or radical
glucoside;a glycoside derived from glucose
pulp;a mixture of cellulose fibers
ni hard;cast iron to which nickel has been added to make it resist abrasion
chloroprene;derivative of butadiene used in making neoprene by polymerization
pyrophoric alloy;an alloy that emits sparks when struck or scratched with steel. used in lighter flints
atomic number;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. occurs together with yttrium. forms highly magnetic compounds
atomic number;a nonmetallic largely pentavalent heavy volatile corrosive dark brown liquid element belonging to the halogens. found in sea water
para aminobenzoic acid;a metabolic acid found in yeast and liver cells. used to make dyes and drugs
ozone;a colorless gas (o3) soluble in alkalis and cold water. a strong oxidizing agent. can be produced by electric discharge in oxygen or by the action of ultraviolet radiation on oxygen in the stratosphere (where it acts as a screen for ultraviolet radiation)
arrack;any of various strong liquors distilled from the fermented sap of toddy palms or from fermented molasses
muntz metal;a brass that has more zinc and is stronger than alpha brass. used in making castings and hot-worked products
eleostearic acid;a crystalline unsaturated fatty acid
fresh water;water that is not salty
sodium chloride;as white crystalline solid consisting mainly of sodium chloride
dubbin;tallow mixed with oil. used to make leather soft and waterproof
lignin;a complex polymer. the chief non-carbohydrate constituent of wood. binds to cellulose fibers to harden and strengthen cell walls of plants
guncotton;nitrocellulose containing a relatively large amount of nitrogen. highly explosive. used in making smokeless powder
quassia;a bitter compound used as an insecticide and tonic and vermifuge. extracted from the wood an bark of trees of the genera quassia and picrasma
ichor;(greek mythology) the rarified fluid said to flow in the veins of the gods
mastic;an aromatic exudate from the mastic tree. used chiefly in varnishes
atomic number;a crystalline metallic element not found in nature. occurs as one of the fission products of uranium
desoxyribonucleic acid;a nucleic acid consisting of large molecules shaped like a double helix. associated with the transmission of genetic information
cellulose acetate;an ester of acetic acid. used in fibers and fabrics. photographic films and varnishes
train oil;a white to brown oil obtained from whale blubber. formerly used as an illuminant
vinyl resin;a thermoplastic derived by polymerization from compounds containing the vinyl group
unp;a transuranic element that has not been found in nature
ketone;any of a class of organic compounds having a carbonyl group linked to a carbon atom in each of two hydrocarbon radicals
javel water;an aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite
sward;surface layer of ground containing a matt of grass and grass roots
butyric acid;an unpleasant smelling fatty acid found especially in butter
scotch and soda;scotch malt whiskey and club soda
raffinose;a trisaccharide that occurs in sugar beets and cotton seeds and certain cereals
low density lipoprotein;a lipoprotein that transports cholesterol in the blood. high levels are thought to be associated with increased risk of coronary heart disease and atherosclerosis
microcosmic salt;a white salt present in urine and used to test for metal oxides
noble metal;any metal that is resistant to corrosion or oxidation
hydroiodic acid;an acid formed by aqueous solution of hydrogen iodide
neat s foot oil;a pale yellow oil made from the feet and legs of cattle. used as a dressing for leather
histone;a simple protein containing mainly basic amino acids. present in cell nuclei in association with nucleic acids
sulphuric acid;(h2so4) a highly corrosive acid made from sulfur dioxide. widely used in the chemical industry
marsala;dark sweet or semisweet dessert wine from sicily
compressed air;air at a pressure greater than that of the atmosphere. 'compressed air is often used to power machines'
soda water;effervescent beverage artificially charged with carbon dioxide
atomic number;a transuranic element
europium;a bivalent and trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group
zinc sulfate;a colorless water-soluble powder. used as a mordant or to preserve wood or for the electrodeposition of zinc
dopamine;a monoamine neurotransmitter found in the brain. as a drug (trade names dopastat and intropin) it is used to treat shock and hypotension
silicon oxide;a white or colorless vitreous insoluble solid. various forms occur widely in the earth's crust as quartz or cristobalite or tridymite or lechartelierite
pectin;any of various water-soluble colloidal carbohydrates that occur in ripe fruit and vegetables. used in making fruit jellies and jams
shortening;fat such as butter or lard used in baked goods
barium;a soft silvery metallic element of the alkali earth group. found in barite
jamaica quassia;similar to the extract from quassia amara
heptadecanoic acid;a colorless crystalline synthetic fatty acid
magnesium;a light silver-white ductile bivalent metallic element. in pure form it burns with brilliant white flame. occurs naturally only in combination (as in magnesite and dolomite and carnallite and spinel and olivine)
tryptophan;an amino acid that is essential for growth and normal metabolism. a precursor of niacin
ice shelf;ice that is attached to land but projects out to sea
nitroglycerine;a heavy yellow poisonous oily explosive liquid obtained by nitrating glycerol. used in making explosives and medically as a vasodilator
corn liquor;illegally whiskey distilled from a corn mash
cordial;strong highly flavored sweet liquor usually drunk after a meal
potassium chlorate;a white salt (kclo3) used in matches, fireworks, and explosives. also used as a disinfectant and bleaching_agent
ethyl acetate;a fragrant colorless flammable volatile liquid ester made from ethanol and acetic acid. used in flavorings and perfumes and as a solvent for plastics
monel metal;an alloy of nickel and copper and other metals (such as iron and/or manganese and/or aluminum)
polonium;a radioactive metallic_element that is similar to tellurium and bismuth. occurs in uranium ores but can be produced by bombarding bismuth with neutrons in a nuclear reactor
samarium;a gray lustrous metallic element of the rare earth group. is used in special alloys. occurs in monazite and bastnasite
hot toddy;liquor and water with sugar and spices and served hot
guaiacum;medicinal resin from the lignum vitae tree
solder;an alloy (usually of lead and tin) used when melted to join two metal surfaces
drinkable;any liquid suitable for drinking: 'may i take your beverage order?'
vintage;a season's yield of wine from a vineyard
tetrabasic acid;an acid containing four replaceable hydrogen atoms per molecule
ni;a hard malleable ductile silvery metallic element that is resistant to corrosion. used in alloys. occurs in pentlandite and smaltite and garnierite and millerite
antimony;a metallic element having four allotropic forms. used in a wide variety of alloys. found in stibnite
saint emilion;full-bodied red wine from around the town of saint_emilion in bordeaux
spring water;water from a spring
purine;any of several bases that are derivatives of purine
boric acid;any of various acids containing boron and oxygen
epoxy glue;a thermosetting resin. used chiefly in strong adhesives and coatings and laminates
kino gum;reddish or black juice or resin from certain trees of the genus pterocarpus and used in medicine and tanning etc
common salt;as white crystalline solid consisting mainly of sodium chloride
burnt lime;a white crystalline oxide used in the production of calcium hydroxide
amyl alcohol;a mixture of 2 or more isomeric alcohols. used as a solvent and in organic synthesis
zanzibar copal;a hard copal derived from an african tree
unnilquadium;a radioactive transuranic element which has been synthesized
galactose;a simple sugar found in lactose
javelle water;an aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite
retsina;greek wine flavored with resin
di iodotyrosine;tyrosine with two iodine atoms added
plasma;an electrically neutral ionized gas in an electric discharge. distinctly different from solids and liquids and normal gases
badlands;deeply eroded barren land
sweet cider;unfermented cider
oxygen;a nonmetallic bivalent element that is normally a colorless odorless tasteless nonflammable diatomic gas. constitutes 28 percent of the atmosphere by volume. the most abundant element in the earth's crust
mine pig;pig iron made entirely from ore
phosphine;a colorless gas with a strong fishy smell. used as a pesticide
hydrate;any compound that contains water of crystallization
phenylalanine;an essential amino acid needed for growth of children and for protein metabolism in children and adults. abundant in milk and eggs. it is normally converted to tyrosine in the human body
propenonitrile;a colorless liquid unsaturated nitrile made from propene
permanganate of potash;a poisonous salt that forms dark purple crystals and is purple-red when dissolved in water. used as an oxidizing and bleaching agent and as a disinfectant and antiseptic
babbitt metal;a alloy of tin with some copper and antimony. an anti-friction lining for bearings
copper sulfate;a copper salt made by the action of sulfuric acid on copper oxide
oil of turpentine;volatile liquid distilled from turpentine oleoresin. used as paint thinner and solvent and medicinally
pousse cafe;small drink served after dinner (especially several liqueurs poured carefully so as to remain in separate layers)
athar;essential oil or perfume obtained from flowers
hn;a colorless explosive liquid that is volatile and poisonous and foul-smelling
hexadecanoic acid;a saturated fatty acid. glycerides of palmitic acid occur widely in plant and animal oils and fats
liquefied petroleum gas;hydrocarbon gases, usually propane or butane, kept under pressure
tap water;water directly from the spigot
structural iron;iron that has been cast or worked in structural shapes
halide;a salt of any halogen acid
ice coffee;strong sweetened coffee served over ice with cream
carbon steel;steel whose characteristics are determined by the amount of carbon it contains
atomic number;a light soft silver-white metallic element of the alkali metal group. oxidizes rapidly in air and reacts violently with water. is abundant in nature in combined forms occurring in sea water and in carnallite and kainite and sylvite
sodium carbonate;a sodium salt of carbonic acid. used in making soap powders and glass and paper
soda;a sweet drink containing carbonated water and flavoring. 'in new england they call sodas tonics'
ru;a rare polyvalent metallic element of the platinum group. it is found associated with platinum
calcium hydrate;a caustic substance (ca(oh)2) produced by heating limestone
sternutatory;a chemical substance that causes sneezing and coughing and crying. 'police used a sternutatory to subdue the mob'
sheep dip;a liquid mixture containing pesticides in which sheep are dipped to kill parasites
white wine;pale yellowish wine made from white grapes or red grapes with skins removed before fermentation
coffee;a beverage consisting of an infusion of ground coffee beans. 'he ordered a cup of coffee'
marc;made from residue of grapes or apples after pressing
glucose;a monosaccharide sugar that has several forms. an important source of physiological energy
gas oil;an oil formed through distillation of petroleum of intermediate boiling range and viscosity
aldehyde;any of a class of highly reactive chemical compounds. used in making resins and dyes and organic acids
asa dulcis;gum resin used especially in treating skin irritation
beaujolais;dry fruity red table wine drunk within a few months after it is made. from southern burgundy in france
ta;a hard gray lustrous metallic element that is highly corrosion-resistant. occurs in niobite and fergusonite and tantalite
vodka martini;martini made with vodka rather than gin
tonic water;lime- or lemon-flavored carbonated water containing quinine
schenk;beer brewed for immediate consumption
albumen;a simple water-soluble protein found in many animal tissues and liquids
pectic acid;a complex acid that occurs in ripe fruit and some vegetables
leaded bronze;bronze to which 1-4% lead is added
potassium bromide;a white crystalline salt (kbr) used as a sedative and in photography
trichloride;any compound containing three chlorine atoms in each molecule
vermouth;any of several white wines flavored with aromatic herbs. used as aperitifs or in mixed drinks
vodka;unaged colorless liquor originating in russia
alum;a white crystalline double sulfate of aluminum: the potassium double sulfate of aluminum
cerotic acid;a white solid fatty acid found in waxes (such as beeswax)
applejack;distilled from hard cider
eggnog;sweetened milk or cream mixed with eggs and usually alcoholic liquor
cupric sulphate;a copper salt made by the action of sulfuric acid on copper oxide
sodium benzoate;a white crystalline salt used as a food preservative and antiseptic
pitch;any of various dark heavy viscid substances obtained as a residue
coconut oil;oil from coconuts
manganate;a salt of manganic acid containing manganese as its anion
dolphin oil;an unsaturated fatty oil obtained from dolphins and used as a fine lubricant
elemi;fragrant resin obtain from trees of the family burseraceae and used as incense
cyanamide;a weak soluble dibasic acid (the parent acid of cyanamide salts)
manganese steel;a steel with a relatively large component (10-14%) of manganese. highly resistant to wear and shock
substance;that which has mass and occupies space. 'an atom is the smallest indivisible unit of matter'
fulminate of mercury;a fulminate that when dry explodes violently if struck or heated. used in detonators and blasting caps and percussion caps
pack ice;a large expanse of floating ice
dry milk;dehydrated milk
saltwater;water containing salts. 'the water in the ocean is all saltwater'
hemoglobin;a conjugated protein composed of heme and globin that gives red blood cells their characteristic color. function primarily to transport oxygen from the lungs to the body tissues
as;a very poisonous metallic element that has three allotropic forms. arsenic and arsenic compounds are used as herbicides and insecticides and various alloys. found in arsenopyrite and orpiment and realgar
enantiomer;either one of a pair of compounds (crystals or molecules) that are mirror images on each other but are not identical
oleo oil;obtained from beef fat. used in making margarine and soap and in lubrication
arsenic trioxide;a white powdered poisonous trioxide of arsenic. used in manufacturing glass and as a pesticide and weed killer
atomic number;a soft silvery metallic element of the alkali metal group. burns in air and reacts violently in water. occurs in carnallite and lepidolite and pollucite
minium;a reddish oxide of lead (pb3o4) used as a pigment in paints and in glass and ceramics
pastis;similar to absinthe but containing no wormwood
lecithin;a yellow phospholipid found in egg yolk and in many plant and animal cells. used commercially as an emulsifier
repellent;a chemical substance that repels
lucite;(trademark) a transparent thermoplastic acrylic resin
tuberculin;a sterile liquid containing a purified protein derivative of the tuberculosis bacterium. used in the diagnosis of tuberculosis
fruit punch;a punch made of fruit juices mixed with water or soda water (with or without alcohol)
palmitic acid;a saturated fatty acid. glycerides of palmitic acid occur widely in plant and animal oils and fats
petrol;a volatile flammable mixture of hydrocarbons (hexane and heptane and octane etc.) derived from petroleum. used mainly as a fuel in internal-combustion engines
kvass;(russian) fermented beverage resembling beer but made from rye or barley
silex;a pure form of finely ground silica
ethylene;a flammable colorless gaseous alkene. obtained from petroleum and natural gas and used in manufacturing many other chemicals
rain;drops of fresh water that fall as precipitation from clouds
norepinephrine;a hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla and also released at synapses
vanadate;a salt or ester of vanadic acid. an anion containing pentavalent vanadium
phenylic acid;a toxic white soluble crystalline acidic derivative of benzene. used in manufacturing and as a disinfectant and antiseptic
safflower oil;oil from seeds of the safflower plant
lauryl alcohol;an insoluble solid alcohol used to make detergents
eu;a bivalent and trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group
sodium fluoride;a colorless crystalline salt of sodium (naf) used in fluoridation of water and to prevent tooth decay
riesling;fragrant dry or sweet white wine from the rhine valley or a similar wine from california
collins;tall iced drink of liquor (usually gin) with fruit juice
titanic oxide;a white powder used as a pigment for its high covering power and durability
melamine;a white crystalline organic base. used mainly in making melamine resins
chlorine;a common nonmetallic element belonging to the halogens. best known as a heavy yellow irritating toxic gas. used to purify water and as a bleaching agent and disinfectant. occurs naturally only as a salt (as in sea water)
perchlorate;a salt of perchloric acid
tequila;mexican liquor made from fermented juices of an agave plant
carbonated water;effervescent beverage artificially charged with carbon dioxide
heparin;a polysaccharide produced in basophils (especially in the lung and liver) and that inhibit the activity of thrombin in coagulation of the blood. heparin sodium is used as an anticoagulant in the treatment of thrombosis
butane;occurs in natural gas. used in the manufacture of rubber and fuels
cellulose nitrate;nitric acid esters. used in lacquers and explosives
protoactinium;a short-lived radioactive metallic element formed from uranium and disintegrating into actinium and then into lead
germanium;a brittle gray crystalline element that is a semiconducting metalloid (resembling silicon) used in transistors. occurs in germanite and argyrodite
buttermilk;residue from making butter from sour raw milk. or pasteurized milk curdled by adding a culture
whole milk;milk from which no constituent (such as fat) has been removed
storax;a vanilla-scented resin from various trees of the genus styrax
antibody;any of a large variety of immunoglobulins normally present in the body or produced in response to an antigen which it neutralizes, thus producing an immune response
bayberry wax;a fragrant green wax obtained from the wax myrtle and used in making candles
congo copal;copal found usually as a fossil
milk;the milk of a goat
cardiac glucoside;obtained from a number of plants and used to stimulate the heart in cases of heart failure
sodium thiosulphate;a compound used as a fixing agent in photographic developing
cup;punch served in a pitcher instead of a punch bowl
apple juice;bottled juice of apples
carbonado;an inferior dark diamond used in industry for drilling and polishing
limewater;solution of calcium hydroxide in water used as an antacid
glycol;any of a class of alcohols having 2 hydroxyl groups in each molecule
paraffin;british usage
potion;a medicinal or magical or poisonous beverage
ferrocerium;a pyrophoric alloy of iron with cerium. used for lighter flints
ginger ale;ginger-flavored carbonated drink
acetaldol;an oily colorless liquid obtained by the condensation of two molecules of acetaldehyde
lead;a soft heavy toxic malleable metallic element. bluish white when freshly cut but tarnishes readily to dull gray. 'the children were playing with lead soldiers'
fusible metal;an alloy with a low melting point and used as solder and in safety plugs and sprinkler fuses
tl;a soft gray malleable metallic element that resembles tin but discolors on exposure to air. it is highly toxic and is used in rodent and insect poisons. occurs in zinc blende and some iron ores
atomic number;an abundant nonmetallic tetravalent element occurring in three allotropic forms: amorphous carbon and graphite and diamond. occurs in all organic compounds
alpha brass;a brass-zinc alloy. used mainly for cold working
potash alum;a white crystalline double sulfate of aluminum: the potassium double sulfate of aluminum
essential amino acid;an amino acid that is required by animals but that they cannot synthesize. must be supplied in the diet
unq;a radioactive transuranic element which has been synthesized
u;a heavy toxic silvery-white radioactive metallic element. occurs in many isotopes. used for nuclear fuels and nuclear weapons
butanoic acid;an unpleasant smelling fatty acid found especially in butter
malonylurea;a white crystalline acid derived from pyrimidine. used in preparing barbiturate drugs
nitrogen mustard;a toxic compound resembling mustard gas in structure. important in cancer treatment
uranium;a heavy toxic silvery-white radioactive metallic element. occurs in many isotopes. used for nuclear fuels and nuclear weapons
cyanuramide;a white crystalline organic base. used mainly in making melamine resins
thiouracil;depresses the function of the thyroid gland
lysergic acid;a crystalline acid often used in medical research. obtained from ergotic alkaloids
cultivated land;land that is worked by plowing and sowing and raising crops
ar;a colorless and odorless inert gas. one of the six inert gases. comprises approximately 1% of the earth's atmosphere
1 dodecanol;an insoluble solid alcohol used to make detergents
bk;a radioactive transuranic element. discovered by bombarding americium with helium
certified milk;from dairies regulated by an authorized medical milk commission
carbonic acid gas;a heavy odorless colorless gas formed during respiration and by the decomposition of organic substances. absorbed from the air by plants in photosynthesis
ba;a soft silvery metallic element of the alkali earth group. found in barite
gelatin;a colorless water-soluble glutinous protein obtained from animal tissues such as bone and skin
seawater;water containing salts. 'the water in the ocean is all saltwater'
rosin;any of a class of solid or semisolid viscous substances obtained either as exudations from certain plants or prepared by polymerization of simple molecules
muscadelle;wine from muscat grapes
triphosphoric acid;an acid that is a partial anhydride of three molecules of phosphoric acid. known chiefly in the form of its salts and esters
wood s metal;a fusible bismuth-base alloy. melts at about 160 degrees fahrenheit
mead;made of fermented honey and water
tetraethyl lead;a clear oily poisonous liquid added to gasoline to prevent knocking
rb;a soft silvery metallic element of the alkali metal group. burns in air and reacts violently in water. occurs in carnallite and lepidolite and pollucite
ho;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. occurs together with yttrium. forms highly magnetic compounds
lime;a caustic substance (ca(oh)2) produced by heating limestone
calcium octadecanoate;an insoluble calcium salt of stearic acid and palmitic acid. it is formed when soap is mixed with water that contains calcium ions and is the scum produced in regions of hard water
bitter principle;any one of several hundred compounds having a bitter taste. not admitting of chemical classification
printing ink;an ink made especially for use in printing
sodium nitrate;(nano3) used especially as a fertilizer and explosive
acetone;a highly inflammable liquid ketone widely used as an organic solvent and as material for making plastics
atp;a a nucleotide derived from adenosine that occurs in muscle tissue. the major source of energy for cellular reactions
salmon oil;a fatty oil obtained from the wastes in canning salmon. used in making soap and dressing leather
misch metal;a pyrophoric alloy made from a mixture of rare-earth metals
maleic acid;a colorless crystalline compound found in unripe fruit (such as apples or tomatoes or cherries) and used mainly to make polyester resins
cresol;any of three poisonous colorless isomeric phenols. derived from coal or wood tar. used as a disinfectant
ski wax;wax used on the bottom of skis
cysteine;an amino acid containing sulfur that is found in most proteins. oxidizes on exposure to air to form cystine
green gold;a gold alloy (at least 14 karat gold with silver or silver and cadmium) that has a green appearance
vanadium steel;steel alloyed with vanadium for greater strength and high-temperature stability
mimosa;a mixed drink containing champagne and orange juice
italian vermouth;sweet dark amber variety
tartaric acid;an acid found in many fruits. used in soft drinks and confectionery and baking powder
allyl resin;a resin derived from allyl alcohol that hardens when cured. used as an adhesive
slivovitz;hungarian plum brandy
drink;any liquid suitable for drinking: 'may i take your beverage order?'
lithium;a soft silver-white univalent element of the alkali metal group. the lightest metal known. occurs in several minerals
immunoglobulin;a class of globulins produced in lymph tissue in vertebrates and that function as antibodies in the immune response
phenolic;a thermosetting resin
indium;a rare soft silvery metallic element. occurs in small quantities in sphalerite
erbium;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. occurs with yttrium
albumin;a simple water-soluble protein found in many animal tissues and liquids
methylthionine chloride;a dark green dye used as a stain, an antiseptic, a chemical indicator, and an antidote in cyanide poisoning
spiegeleisen;pig iron containing manganese. used as a deoxidizing agent and to raise the manganese content in making steel
carnauba;hard yellowish to brownish wax from leaves of the carnauba palm used especially in floor waxes and polishes
volatile oil;a volatile oil having the odor or flavor of the plant from which it comes. used in perfume and flavorings
na;a silvery soft waxy metallic element of the alkali metal group. occurs abundantly in natural compounds (especially in salt water). burns with a yellow flame and reacts violently in water. occurs in sea water and in the mineral halite (rock salt)
atropine;an alkaloid extracted from the nightshade family. used as an antispasmodic and to dilate the eye pupil
tom and jerry;hot rum toddy with a beaten egg
bathtub gin;homemade gin especially that made illegally
glycollic acid;a translucent crystalline compound found in sugar cane and sugar beets and unripe grapes
pyruvic acid;a colorless acid formed as an important intermediate in metabolism or fermentation
preservative;a chemical compound that is added to protect against decay or decomposition
lu;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. usually occurs in association with yttrium
atomic number;a polyvalent metallic element that resembles chromium and tungsten in its properties. used to strengthen and harden steel
myelin;a white fatty substance that forms a medullary sheath around the axis cylinder of some nerve fibers
calamus oil;carcinogenic oil from calamus root used as a perfume
hexanoic acid;a fatty acid found in animal oils and fats or made synthetically. smells like goats
valine;an amino acid essential for growth in children and nitrogen balance in adults
sodium hydroxide;a strongly alkaline caustic used in manufacturing soap and paper and aluminum and various sodium compounds
halocarbon;one of various compounds of carbon and any of the halogens
banana oil;a liquid ester derived from amyl alcohol. has the odor of bananas
neroli oil;an odoriferous yellow oil found in orange flowers and used in perfumery and as a flavoring
macon;fine burgundy wine usually white and dry
amine;a compound derived from ammonia by replacing hydrogen atoms by univalent hydrocarbon radicals
hypo;a compound used as a fixing agent in photographic developing
brain sugar;a simple sugar found in lactose
bile acid;any of the liver-generated steroid acids and stored with bile
ginger beer;carbonated slightly alcoholic drink flavored with fermented ginger
coffee royal;black coffee with cognac and lemon peel and sugar
maconnais;fine burgundy wine usually white and dry
ammine;a complex inorganic compound that contains ammonia molecules
platinum;a heavy precious metallic element. gray-white and resistant to corroding. occurs in some nickel and copper ores and is also found native in some deposits
chloride;any compound containing a chlorine atom
hydrocarbon;an organic compound containing only carbon and hydrogen
colophony;translucent brittle substance produced from pine oleoresin. used especially in varnishes and inks and on the bows of stringed instruments
vino;fermented juice (of grapes especially)
phosphate;a salt of phosphoric acid
water;a clear colorless odorless tasteless liquid. 'he asked for a drink of water'
mercury fulminate;a fulminate that when dry explodes violently if struck or heated. used in detonators and blasting caps and percussion caps
stainless steel;steel containing chromium that makes it resistant to corrosion
trisaccharide;any of a variety of carbohydrates that yield three monosaccharide molecules on complete hydrolysis
methane series;a non-aromatic saturated hydrocarbon with the general formula cnh(2n+2)
anionic compound;a compound characterized by an active anion
accroides;an alcohol-soluble resin from australian trees. used in varnishes and in manufacturing paper
drink;a liquor or brew containing alcohol as the active agent. 'alcohol (or drink) ruined him'
cast iron;an alloy of iron containing so much carbon that it is brittle and so cannot be wrought but must be shaped by casting
liquid crystal;a liquid exhibiting properties of a crystal that are not shown by ordinary liquids
alloy cast iron;cast iron containing alloying elements (usually nickel or chromium or copper or molybdenum) to increase the strength or facilitate heat treatment
cytosine;a base found in dna and rna and derived from pyrimidine. pairs with guanine
chinese wood oil;a yellow oil obtained from the seeds of the tung tree
shot metal;an alloy that is 98% lead and 2% arsenic. used in making small shot
creatine;a compound that is found in the muscle tissue of vertebrates. supplies energy for muscle contraction
atomic number;a nonmetallic element belonging to the halogens. used especially in medicine and photography and in dyes. occurs naturally only in combination in small quantities (as in sea water or rocks)
gum myrrh;aromatic resin burned as incense and used in perfume
vichy water;sparkling mineral water from springs at vichy france or similar to it
interplanetary gas;a rarefied flow of gas and charged particles (plasma) that stream from the sun and form the solar wind
chlorate;any salt of chloric acid
wish wash;any thin watery drink
propylene glycol;a sweet liquid preservative used as an antifreeze and in brake fluid
butyl alcohol;a flammable alcohol derived from butanes and used for solvents
ethanol;the intoxicating agent in fermented and distilled liquors. used pure or denatured as a solvent or in medicines and colognes and cleaning solutions and rocket fuel
dammar;any of various hard resins from trees of the family dipterocarpaceae and of the genus agathis. especially the amboyna pine
grape sugar;an isomer of glucose that is found in honey and sweet fruits
globin;a colorless protein obtained by removing heme from hemoglobin
opsin;retinal protein formed by the action of light on rhodopsin
atomic number;an abundant tasteless odorless multivalent nonmetallic element. best known in yellow crystals. occurs in many sulphide and sulphate minerals and even in native form (especially in volcanic regions)
pineapple juice;bottled or canned pineapple juice
ammonium carbonate;a carbonate of ammonium. used in the manufacture of smelling salts and baking powder and ammonium compounds
wassail;sweetened ale or wine heated with spices and roasted apples. especially at christmas
stannic chloride;a colorless caustic liquid made by treating tin with chlorine
yttrium;a silvery metallic element that is common in rare-earth minerals. used in magnesium and aluminum alloys
monounsaturated fatty acid;an unsaturated fatty acid whose carbon chain has one double or triple valence bond per molecule. found chiefly in olive oil and chicken and almonds
fulminating mercury;a fulminate that when dry explodes violently if struck or heated. used in detonators and blasting caps and percussion caps
water of crystallization;the water present in hydrated compounds
tungsten;a heavy gray-white metallic element. the pure form is used mainly in electrical applications. it is found in several ores including wolframite and scheelite
home brew;an alcoholic beverage (especially beer) made at home
refresher;a drink that refreshes. 'he stopped at the bar for a quick refresher
sugar;an essential structural component of living cells and source of energy for animals. includes simple sugars with small molecules as well as macromolecular substances. are classified according to the number of monosaccharide groups they contain
hard lead;a lead alloy that contains about 5% antimony
saleratus;a white soluble compound used in effervescent drinks and in baking powders and as an antacid
fluoride;a salt of hydrofluoric acid
ladanum;a soft blackish-brown resinous exudate from various rockroses used in perfumes especially as a fixative
praseodymium;a soft yellowish-white trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. can be recovered from bastnasite or monazite by an ion-exchange process
glutamine;a crystalline amino acid occurring in proteins. important in protein metabolism
stannous fluoride;a white powder that is used to fluoridate toothpaste
saccharide;an essential structural component of living cells and source of energy for animals. includes simple sugars with small molecules as well as macromolecular substances. are classified according to the number of monosaccharide groups they contain
soft water;water that is not hard (does not contain salts that interfere with the formation of lather with soap)
methionine;a crystalline amino acid containing sulfur. found in most proteins and essential for nutrition
lard;soft white semisolid fat obtained by rendering the fatty tissue of the hog
linoleic acid;a liquid polyunsaturated fatty acid abundant in plant fats and oils. a fatty acid essential for nutrition. used to make soap
sack;any of various light dry strong white wine from spain and canary islands (including sherry)
nichrome;(trademark) a nickel-chromium alloy with high electrical resistance and an ability to withstand high temperatures. used for resistance heating elements
medium steel;steel with 0.15-0.3% carbon
natural resin;a plant exudate
proprionamide;the amide of propionic acid (c2h5conh2)
sunflower oil;oil from sunflower seeds
hydrazoite;a salt of hydrazoic acid
cocktail;a short mixed drink
ionosphere;"the outer region of the earth's atmosphere. contains a high concentration of free electrons"
metheglin;spiced or medicated mead
bath water;water used for a bath
dna;a nucleic acid consisting of large molecules shaped like a double helix. associated with the transmission of genetic information
hf;a gray tetravalent metallic element that resembles zirconium chemically and is found in zirconium minerals. used in filaments for its ready emission of electrons
dental gold;an alloy of gold used in dentistry
acrolein;a pungent colorless unsaturated liquid aldehyde made from propene
accroides gum;an alcohol-soluble resin from australian trees. used in varnishes and in manufacturing paper
crude;a dark oil consisting mainly of hydrocarbons
supernatant;a liquid lying above a sediment (floating on the surface)
atomic number;a heavy brittle diamagnetic trivalent metallic element (resembles arsenic and antimony chemically). usually recovered as a by-product from ores of other metals
pennyroyal oil;oil from european pennyroyal having a mintlike odor. used chiefly in soaps
nitrobenzene;an oily toxic water-soluble liquid used as a solvent and in the manufacture of aniline
titanic acid;a white weak acid that is a hydrated form of titanium dioxide
cyanuric acid;a trimer of cyanic acid
cooler;an iced drink especially white wine and fruit juice
cold duck;pink sparkling wine originally from germany
electrum;an alloy of gold and silver
tenderizer;a substance (as the plant enzyme papain) applied to meat to make it tender
tm;a soft silvery metallic element of the rare earth group. isotope 170 emits x-rays and is used in small portable x-ray machines. it occurs in monazite and apatite and xenotime
citrulline;an amino acid that is an intermediate in the conversion of ornithine to arginine
glycerogel;a medicated skin preparation made from glycerin and glycerinated gelatin
gum elemi;fragrant resin obtain from trees of the family burseraceae and used as incense
trioxide;an oxide containing three atoms of oxygen in the molecule
cabernet sauvignon;superior bordeaux-type red wine from california
cod liver oil;an oil obtained from the livers of cod and similar fishes. taken orally as a source of vitamins a and d
glyceryl trinitrate;a heavy yellow poisonous oily explosive liquid obtained by nitrating glycerol. used in making explosives and medically as a vasodilator
zirconia;a white crystalline oxide. used in refractories and in insulation and abrasives and enamels and glazes
kavakava;(polynesian) an alcoholic drink made from the aromatic roots of the kava shrub
iridium;a heavy brittle metallic element of the platinum group. used in alloys. occurs in natural alloys with platinum or osmium
calcium lactate;a white crystalline salt made by the action of lactic acid on calcium carbonate. used in foods (as a baking powder) and given medically as a source of calcium
wrought iron;iron having a low carbon content that is tough and malleable and so can be forged and welded
arsenic acid;an acid formed from arsenic pentoxide
sandarach;a brittle and faintly aromatic translucent resin used in varnishes
pasturized milk;subjected to carefully controlled heating to destroy undesirable microorganisms
bichloride;a compound containing two chlorine atoms per molecule
rh;a white hard metallic element that is one of the platinum group and is found in platinum ores. used in alloys with platinum
propenoic acid;an unsaturated liquid carboxylic acid used in the manufacture of acrylic resins
arrowroot;a nutritive starch obtained from the root of the arrowroot plant
perchloric acid;a powerful oxidizing agent. forms perchlorates
beef tallow;tallow obtained from a bovine animal
activated charcoal;powdered or granular carbon used for purifying by adsorption. given orally (as a slurry) it is an antidote for some kinds of poisons
mild steel;steel with less than 0.15% carbon
rose oil;a volatile fragrant oil obtained from fresh roses by steam distillation
cutch;tannin extract derived from any of several mangrove barks of pacific areas
acetate;a salt or ester of acetic acid
tilled land;land that is worked by plowing and sowing and raising crops
gunmetal;a type of bronze used for parts subject to wear or corrosion (especially corrosion by sea water)
whiskey;made from fermented mash of grain
copaiba balsam;an oleoresin used in varnishes and ointments
gas;a fluid in the gaseous state having neither independent shape nor volume and being able to expand indefinitely
love philtre;a drink credited with magical power. can make the one who takes it love the one who gave it
oxalacetate;a salt or ester of oxalacetic acid
olefin;any unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbon
prolamine;a simple protein found in plants
lemonade;sweetened beverage of diluted lemon juice
thorium;a soft silvery-white tetravalent radioactive metallic element. isotope 232 is used as a power source in nuclear reactors. occurs in thorite and in monazite sands
nitroglycerin;a heavy yellow poisonous oily explosive liquid obtained by nitrating glycerol. used in making explosives and medically as a vasodilator
tokay;hungarian wine made from tokay grapes
sal soda;a sodium salt of carbonic acid. used in making soap powders and glass and paper
copper;a ductile malleable reddish-brown corrosion-resistant diamagnetic metallic element. occurs in various minerals but is the only metal that occurs abundantly in large masses. used as an electrical and thermal conductor
gamma iron;a nonmagnetic allotrope of iron that is the basis of austenite. stable between 906 and 1403 degrees centigrade
tall oil;an oil derived from wood pulp and used in making soaps or lubricants
dopastat;a monoamine neurotransmitter found in the brain. as a drug (trade names dopastat and intropin) it is used to treat shock and hypotension
soft cast steel;steel with less than 0.15% carbon
cider;alcoholic drink from fermented cider ('cider' and 'cyder' are european (especially british) usage for the fermented beverage)
nitrocotton;nitric acid esters. used in lacquers and explosives
enantiomorph;either one of a pair of compounds (crystals or molecules) that are mirror images on each other but are not identical
mercurous chloride;a tasteless colorless powder used medicinally as a cathartic
atomic number;a lustrous gray strong metallic element resembling titanium. it is used in nuclear reactors as a neutron absorber. it occurs in baddeleyite but is obtained chiefly from zircon
th;a soft silvery-white tetravalent radioactive metallic element. isotope 232 is used as a power source in nuclear reactors. occurs in thorite and in monazite sands
caustic soda;a strongly alkaline caustic used in manufacturing soap and paper and aluminum and various sodium compounds
methyl salicylate;a liquid ester with a strong odor of wintergreen. applied externally for minor muscle and joint pain
acetamide;a colorless solid amide of acetic acid used as a solvent and in the synthesis of organic compounds
blush wine;pinkish table wine from red grapes whose skins were removed after fermentation began
telluride;any binary compound of tellurium with other more electropositive elements
alkaloid;natural nitrogen-containing bases found in plants
propanol;a clear colorless volatile liquid (alcohol) used as a solvent and antiseptic
pseudoephedrine;poisonous crystalline alkaloid occurring with ephedrine and isomorphic with it
vegetable oil;any of a group of oils that are obtained from plants
osmium;a hard brittle blue-gray or blue-black metallic element that is one of the platinum metals. the heaviest metal known
ethene;a flammable colorless gaseous alkene. obtained from petroleum and natural gas and used in manufacturing many other chemicals
atomic number;a soft gray ductile metallic element used in alloys. occurs in niobite. formerly called columbium
wood sugar;a sugar extracted from wood or straw. used in foods for diabetics
alkylbenzenesulfonate;sulfonate of alkyl benzene
lead chromate;a poisonous chromate of lead used as a pigment in paint
aperitif;taken before a meal as an appetizer
wood pulp;wood that has been ground to a pulp. used in making cellulose products (as rayon or paper)
gum terpentine;obtained from conifers (especially pines)
chenin blanc;made in california and the loire valley in france
chlorofluorocarbon;a fluorocarbon with chlorine. formerly used as a refrigerant and as a propellant in aerosol cans. 'cfcs cause depletion of atmospheric ozone'
lead;a mixture of graphite with clay in different degrees of hardness. the marking substance in a pencil
ottar;essential oil or perfume obtained from flowers
ginger pop;ginger-flavored carbonated drink
ammonium carbamate;a salt of carbamic acid that is used as a nitrogen fertilizer
adp;an ester of adenosine that is converted to atp for energy storage
glycerogelatin;a medicated skin preparation made from glycerin and glycerinated gelatin
spike oil;pale yellow essential oil obtained from spike lavender used in scenting soaps and cosmetics
babbitt;a alloy of tin with some copper and antimony. an anti-friction lining for bearings
admiralty metal;alpha-beta brass containing tin. resistant to sea water. admiralty metal is a trademark
air cushion;the trapped air that supports a hovercraft a short distance above the water or ground
atomic number;a metallic element of the rare earth group. used in lasers. occurs in apatite and monazite and xenotime and ytterbite
cocoa;made from baking chocolate or cocoa powder and milk and sugar
liebfraumilch;rhenish-type wine from especially hesse in western germany
boric acid;a white or colorless slightly acid solid that is soluble in water and ethanol. used in the manufacture of glass and paper and adhesives and in detergents and as a flux in welding. also used as an antiseptic and food preservative
nitrogen oxide;any of several oxides of nitrogen formed by the action of nitric acid on oxidizable materials
champagne cup;a punch containing a sparkling wine
lunar caustic;silver nitrate fused into sticks and formerly used as a caustic
chemical element;"any of the more than 100 known substances (of which 93 occur naturally) that cannot be separated into simpler substances and that singly or in combination constitute all matter"
muscadel;wine from muscat grapes
cassava starch;a starch made by leaching and drying the root of the cassava plant. the source of tapioca. a staple food in the tropics
perry;a fermented and often effervescent beverage made from juice of pears. similar in taste to hard cider
lawrencium;a radioactive transuranic element synthesized from californium
sauternes;semisweet golden-colored table or dessert wine from around bordeaux in france. similar wine from california
constantan;a copper-nickel alloy with high electrical resistance and a low temperature coefficient. used as resistance wire
fluorocarbon;a halocarbon in which some hydrogen atoms have been replaced by fluorine. used in refrigerators and aerosols
dextrose;an isomer of glucose that is found in honey and sweet fruits
ptomain;any of various amines (such as putrescine or cadaverine) formed by the action of putrefactive bacteria
methylene blue;a dark green dye used as a stain, an antiseptic, a chemical indicator, and an antidote in cyanide poisoning
nickel base alloy;an alloy whose main constituent is nickel
fluid;"a substance that is fluid at room temperature and pressure"
phospholipid;any of various comounds composed of fatty acids and phosphoric acid and a nitrogenous base. an important constituent of membranes
mg;a light silver-white ductile bivalent metallic element. in pure form it burns with brilliant white flame. occurs naturally only in combination (as in magnesite and dolomite and carnallite and spinel and olivine)
decaffeinated coffee;coffee with the caffeine removed
orthophosphorous acid;a clear or yellow-colored monobasic acid (h3po2)
atomic number;a radioactive transuranic element which has been synthesized
atomic number;a radioactive transuranic element produced by bombarding plutonium with neutrons
red bordeaux;dry red bordeaux or bordeaux-like wine
zinc vitriol;a colorless water-soluble powder. used as a mordant or to preserve wood or for the electrodeposition of zinc
oxide;any compound of oxygen with another element or a radical
protein;any of a large group of nitrogenous organic compounds that are essential constituents of living cells. consist of long strings of amino acids
shelf ice;ice that is attached to land but projects out to sea
monoamine;a molecule containing one amine group (especially one that is a neurotransmitter)
oxyacid;any acid that contains oxygen
chokedamp;the atmosphere in a mine following an explosion. high in carbon dioxide and incapable of supporting life
cola;carbonated drink flavored with extract from kola nuts ('dope' is a southernism in the united states)
oxalacetic acid;an acid formed by oxidation of maleic acid (as in metabolism of fats and carbohydrates)
nitric oxide;a poisonous red-brown gas (no)
anisette;liquorice-flavored usually colorless sweet liqueur made from aniseed
atomic number;a yellow trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. occurs in monazite and bastnasite in association with cerium and lanthanum and praseodymium
incense;a substance that produces a fragrant odor when burned
atomic number;a trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. usually occurs in association with yttrium
grog;rum cut with water
balsam;any of various fragrant oleoresins used in medicines and perfumes
hydrobromic acid;an aqueous solution of hydrogen bromide that is a strong liquid acid
atomic number;a radioactive element of the alkali-metal group discovered as a disintegration product of actinium
h2o;a clear colorless odorless tasteless liquid. 'he asked for a drink of water'
ghedda wax;wax from indian and african bees
invert sugar;a mixture of glucose and fructose found in fruits. sweeter than glucose
cuppa;(british) a cup of tea
calcium carbide;a gray salt of calcium used in making acetylene
argon;a colorless and odorless inert gas. one of the six inert gases. comprises approximately 1% of the earth's atmosphere
hydrogen cyanide;a weak poisonous acid (hcn) used in fumigating and in synthesis of organic compounds
candelilla wax;a hard brown wax that occurs as a coating on candelilla shrubs
actinium;a radioactive element of the actinide series. found in uranium ores
borate;a salt or ester of boric acid
carbon tet;a colorless nonflammable liquid used as a solvent for fats and oils. because of its toxicity its use as a cleaning fluid or fire extinguisher has declined
myrrh;aromatic resin burned as incense and used in perfume
sake;japanese beverage from fermented rice usually served hot
tobin bronze;alpha-beta brass containing tin. resistant to sea water. admiralty metal is a trademark
ice;"the frozen part of a body of water"
tungstic acid;an oxyacid of tungsten (often polymeric in nature) formed by neutralizing alkaline tungstate solutions
glycerol tristearate;a triglyceride of stearic acid
irish coffee;sweetened coffee with irish whiskey and whipped cream
gamma acid;a crystalline acid used to make azo dyes
chelate compound;a heterocyclic compound having a metal ion attached by coordinate bonds to at least two nonmetal ions
raw milk;unpasteurized milk
antimonial lead;a lead alloy that contains about 5% antimony
wolfram steel;a very hard heat-resistant steel containing tungsten
hypochlorous acid;a weak unstable acid known only in solution and in its salts. used as a bleaching agent and as an oxidizing agent
chicory;root of the chicory plant roasted and ground to substitute for or adulterate coffee
milk;a white nutritious liquid secreted by mammals and used as food by human beings
isocyanate;a salt or ester of isocyanic acid
arginine;a bitter tasting amino acid found in proteins and necessary for nutrition. its absence from the diet leads to a reduced production of spermatozoa
substance;"the stuff of which an object consists"
potable;any liquid suitable for drinking: 'may i take your beverage order?'
mustard gas;a toxic war gas that raises blisters and attacks the eyes and lungs
atomic number;a nonmetallic bivalent element that is normally a colorless odorless tasteless nonflammable diatomic gas. constitutes 28 percent of the atmosphere by volume. the most abundant element in the earth's crust
adrenaline;a hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla in response to stress (trade name adrenalin). stimulates autonomic nerve action
iodic acid;a soluble crystalline acid. used as a reagent and disinfectant
walnut oil;oil from walnuts
pu;a radioactive transuranic element that is similar to uranium. found in minute quantities in uranium ores but is usually synthesized in nuclear reactors. 13 isotopes are known with the most important being plutonium 239
barium hydroxide;white poisonous crystals. made by dissolving barium oxide in water
bichloride of mercury;a white poisonous soluble crystalline sublimate of mercury. used as a pesticide or antiseptic or wood preservative
hydroxybenzoic acid;a crystalline derivative of benzoic acid
gallium;a rare silvery (usually trivalent) metallic element. brittle at low temperatures but liquid above room temperature. occurs in trace amounts in bauxite and zinc ores
white burgundy;dry white table wine of chablis france or resembling that wine
tungsten steel;a very hard heat-resistant steel containing tungsten
furfuran;a colorless toxic flammable liquid used in the synthesis of nylon
sulphonic acid;n acid derived from sulphuric acid
gadolinium;a ductile silvery-white ductile ferromagnetic trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group
ricinoleic acid;an oily fatty acid found in castor oil and used in soap
native sulfur;an old name for sulfur
alpha beta brass;a brass that has more zinc and is stronger than alpha brass. used in making castings and hot-worked products
weiss beer;very effervescent light-colored beer
tartar emetic;a poisonous colorless salt used as a mordant and in medicine
ga;a rare silvery (usually trivalent) metallic element. brittle at low temperatures but liquid above room temperature. occurs in trace amounts in bauxite and zinc ores
atomic number;a transuranic element that has not been found in nature
alloy;a mixture of two or more metals or of metallic and nonmetallic elements usually fused together or dissolving into each other when molten
allomorph;any of several different crystalline forms of the same chemical compound: 'calcium carbonate occurs in the allomorphs calcite and aragonite'
dimer;a compound whose molecules are composed of two identical monomers
polyester;a complex ester used for making fibers or resins or plastics or as a plasticizer
atomic number;a rare heavy polyvalent metallic element that resembles manganese chemically and is used in some alloys. is obtained as a by-product in refining molybdenum
napalm;gasoline jelled with aluminum soaps. highly incendiary liquid used in fire bombs and flame throwers
conjugated protein;a protein complex combining amino acids with other substances
pine tar;a dark viscous substance obtained from the destructive distillation of pine wood
rutherfordium;a radioactive transuranic element which has been synthesized
sterling silver;a silver alloy with no more than 7.5% copper
atomic number;a bluish-white lustrous metallic element. brittle at ordinary temperatures but malleable when heated. used in a wide variety of alloys and in galvanizing iron. it occurs as zinc sulphide in zinc blende
sweet birch oil;a liquid ester with a strong odor of wintergreen. applied externally for minor muscle and joint pain
sweet almond oil;pale yellow fatty oil expressed from sweet or bitter almonds
ferricyanic acid;(h3fe(cn)6), a brown unstable acid formed from ferricyanide
rob roy;made with scotch whiskey
ethyne;a colorless flammable gas used chiefly in welding and in organic synthesis
irish whisky;made in ireland chiefly from barley
plonk;(british and australian) a cheap wine of inferior quality
carbon dioxide;a heavy odorless colorless gas formed during respiration and by the decomposition of organic substances. absorbed from the air by plants in photosynthesis
cohune fat;semisolid fat from nuts of the cohune palm. used in cooking and soap making
mineral water;water naturally or artificially impregnated with mineral salts or gasses. often effervescent. often used therapeutically
white metal;an alloy, often of lead or tin base, used for bearings
rna;a nucleic acid that transmits genetic information from dna to the cytoplasm. controls certain chemical processes in the cell
eau de vie;strong coarse brandy
mucic acid;a solid acid (c6h10o8) found in milk or sugar
white vitriol;a colorless water-soluble powder. used as a mordant or to preserve wood or for the electrodeposition of zinc
attar;essential oil or perfume obtained from flowers
benedictine;a french liqueur originally made by benedictine monks
rochelle salt;a double salt used in seidlitz powder. acts as a cathartic
bubbly;a white sparkling wine either produced in champagne or resembling that produced there
irish;made in ireland chiefly from barley
bitter almond oil;pale yellow essential oil obtained from bitter almonds by distillation from almond cake or meal
tellurium;a brittle silver-white metalloid element that is related to selenium and sulfur. it is used in alloys and as a semiconductor. occurs mainly as tellurides in ores of copper and nickel and silver and gold
gin rickey;a rickey made with gin
tombak;an alloy of copper and zinc (and sometimes arsenic) used to imitate gold in cheap jewelry and for gilding
nobelium;a radioactive transuranic element synthesized by bombarding curium with carbon ions. 7 isotopes are known
fixing agent;a compound that sets of fixes something
high strength brass;a brass with from 1-4% manganese to harden it
saki;japanese beverage from fermented rice usually served hot
propionaldehyde;a colorless liquid aldehyde
perchloromethane;a colorless nonflammable liquid used as a solvent for fats and oils. because of its toxicity its use as a cleaning fluid or fire extinguisher has declined
gum anime;any of various resins or oleoresins
atomic number;a hard brittle blue-white multivalent metallic element. resistant to corrosion and tarnishing
aqua vitae;strong distilled liquor or brandy
peat bog;wet spongy ground of decomposing vegetation. has poorer drainage than a swamp. soil is unfit for cultivation but can be cut and dried and used for fuel
zinc oxide;oxide of zinc. a white powder used as a pigment or in cosmetics or glass or inks and in zinc ointment
actin;one of the proteins into which actomyosin can be split. can exist in either a globular or a fibrous form
cfc;a fluorocarbon with chlorine. formerly used as a refrigerant and as a propellant in aerosol cans. 'cfcs cause depletion of atmospheric ozone'
inconel;(trademark) an nickel-base alloy with chromium and iron. used in gas-turbine blades
monobasic acid;an acid containing only one replaceable hydrogen atom per molecule
cartridge brass;a copper-zinc alloy (containing about 30% zinc) that is wrought into cartridges or tubing
drift ice;masses of ice floating in the open sea
brandy;distilled from wine or fermented fruit juice
uranyl oxalate;a salt obtained by the reaction of uranium salts with oxalic acid
corn whisky;distilled from a mash of not less than 80 percent corn
arsenic;a white powdered poisonous trioxide of arsenic. used in manufacturing glass and as a pesticide and weed killer
homogenized milk;milk with the fat particles broken up and dispersed uniformly so the cream will not rise
turps;volatile liquid distilled from turpentine oleoresin. used as paint thinner and solvent and medicinally
acaroid resin;an alcohol-soluble resin from australian trees. used in varnishes and in manufacturing paper
mono iodotyrosine;tyrosine with one iodine atom added
schnaps;any of various strong liquors especially a dutch spirit distilled from potatoes
dark beer;dark-colored heavy-bodied beers usually imported from germany or holland or scandinavia
trinitroglycerin;a heavy yellow poisonous oily explosive liquid obtained by nitrating glycerol. used in making explosives and medically as a vasodilator
enkephalin;an endorphin having opiate qualities
burgundy;table wine from the burgundy region of france or any burgundy-type wine made elsewhere
red lead;a reddish oxide of lead (pb3o4) used as a pigment in paints and in glass and ceramics
methanal;a colorless poisonous gas. made by the oxidation of methanol
butyrin;any of three glycerides of butyric acid
sazerac;bourbon with bitters and pernod and sugar served with lemon peel
phosphorus;a multivalent nonmetallic element of the nitrogen family that occurs commonly in inorganic phosphate rocks and as organic phosphates in all living cells. is highly reactive and occurs in several allotropic forms
bile salt;a salt of bile acid and a base. functions as an emulsifier of lipids and fatty acids
ale;fermented alcoholic beverage similar to but heavier than beer
drill rod;carbon steel used for rock drills and dowels
benjamin;gum resin used especially in treating skin irritation
marshland;low-lying wet land with grassy vegetation. usually is a transition zone between land and water
almond oil;pale yellow fatty oil expressed from sweet or bitter almonds
hydrogen peroxide;a viscous liquid with strong oxidizing properties. a powerful bleaching agent. also used as a disinfectant and (in strong concentrations) as an oxidant in rocket fuels
actomyosin;a protein complex in muscle fibers. composed of myosin and actin. shortens when stimulated and causes muscle contractions
sm;a gray lustrous metallic element of the rare earth group. is used in special alloys. occurs in monazite and bastnasite
water gas;a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide with small amounts of other gases. made by blowing steam over hot coke or coal
pinot noir;dry red california table wine made from purple pinot grapes
clove oil;essential oil obtained from cloves and used to flavor medicines
atomic number;a hard ferromagnetic silver-white bivalent or trivalent metallic element. a trace element in plant and animal nutrition
scotch whiskey;whiskey distilled in scotland. especially whiskey made from malted barley in a pot still
quaternary ammonium compound;a compound derived from ammonium with hydrogen atoms replaced by organic groups. used as surface-active agents, disinfectants, and in drugs
expressed almond oil;pale yellow fatty oil expressed from sweet or bitter almonds
arsenous anhydride;a white powdered poisonous trioxide of arsenic. used in manufacturing glass and as a pesticide and weed killer
olein;a naturally occuring glyceride of oleic acid that is found in fats and oils
silicon carbide;an extremely hard blue-black crystalline compound (sic) used as an abrasive and a heat refractory material. crystals of silicon carbide can be used as semiconductors
paris green;a toxic double salt of copper arsenate and copper acetate
silicon dioxide;a white or colorless vitreous insoluble solid. various forms occur widely in the earth's crust as quartz or cristobalite or tridymite or lechartelierite
blue stone;hydrated blue crystalline form of copper sulfate
sodium sulphate;a bitter salt used in detergents
francium;a radioactive element of the alkali-metal group discovered as a disintegration product of actinium
kurchatovium;a radioactive transuranic element which has been synthesized
vin ordinaire;cheap french table wine of unspecified origin
polyunsaturated fat;a class of fats having long carbon chains with many double bonds unsaturated with hydrogen atoms. used in some margarines. supposedly associated with low blood cholesterol
hydrazoic acid;a colorless explosive liquid that is volatile and poisonous and foul-smelling
hydrolith;a salt-like compound (cah2) used as a reducing agent and source of hydrogen
toddy;liquor and water with sugar and spices and served hot
cyanide;an extremely poisonous salt of hydrocyanic acid
ammonia water;a water solution of ammonia
rotgut;any alcoholic beverage of inferior quality
calcium sulphate;a white salt (caso4)
silver iodide;an iodide that is used in photography, in seeding clouds to make rain, and in medicine
p;a multivalent nonmetallic element of the nitrogen family that occurs commonly in inorganic phosphate rocks and as organic phosphates in all living cells. is highly reactive and occurs in several allotropic forms
sebacic acid;a dicarboxylic acid used to make resins
malmsey;sweet madeira wine
ethylene glycol;a sweet but poisonous syrupy liquid used as an antifreeze and solvent
mercury chloride;a white poisonous soluble crystalline sublimate of mercury. used as a pesticide or antiseptic or wood preservative
salt;a compound formed by replacing hydrogen in an acid by a metal (or a radical that acts like a metal)
blackdamp;the atmosphere in a mine following an explosion. high in carbon dioxide and incapable of supporting life
furfural;a liquid aldehyde with a penetrating odor. made from plant hulls and corn cobs. used in making furan and as a solvent
coumarone;a colorless oily compound extracted from coal tar and used in manufacturing synthetic resins
cadmium sulfide;a yellow sulfide used chiefly as a pigment
groundnut oil;a oil from peanuts. used in cooking and making soap. 'groundnut oil' is british usage
potassium;a light soft silver-white metallic element of the alkali metal group. oxidizes rapidly in air and reacts violently with water. is abundant in nature in combined forms occurring in sea water and in carnallite and kainite and sylvite
niobium;a soft gray ductile metallic element used in alloys. occurs in niobite. formerly called columbium
apoenzyme;a protein that combines with a coenzyme to form an active enzyme
cafe royale;black coffee with cognac and lemon peel and sugar
goitrogen;any substance (such as thiouracil) that induces the formation of a goiter
am;a radioactive transuranic metallic element. discovered by bombarding uranium with helium atoms
creme de cacao;sweet liqueur flavored with vanilla and cacao beans
silver solder;a solder that contains silver
inorganic phosphate;a salt of phosphoric acid
joss stick;a slender stick of incense burned before a joss by the chinese
stout;strong dark heavy-bodied porter
terbium;a metallic element of the rare earth group. used in lasers. occurs in apatite and monazite and xenotime and ytterbite
phosphorous acid;a clear or yellow-colored monobasic acid (h3po2)
purine;a colorless crystalline organic base. the parent compound of various biologically important substances
krypton;a colorless element that is one of the six inert gasses. occurs in trace amounts in air
atomic number;a radioactive transuranic element that is similar to uranium. found in minute quantities in uranium ores but is usually synthesized in nuclear reactors. 13 isotopes are known with the most important being plutonium 239
headache powder;a powdered form of aspirin
ester;formed by reaction between an acid and an alcohol with elimination of water
azoimide;a colorless explosive liquid that is volatile and poisonous and foul-smelling
uranyl nitrate;a yellow salt obtained by the reaction of uranium salts with nitric acid
molybdenum steel;steel containing 10-15% molybdenum. properties are similar to tungsten steel
glycerinated gelatin;a gelatinous preparation made from gelatin and glycerin and water. used as a base for ointments and suppositories
saturated fatty acid;a fatty acid whose carbon chain cannot absorb any more hydrogen. found chiefly in animal fats
safflower oil;oil from safflower seeds used as food as well as in medicines and paints
pig lead;lead that is cast in pigs
carbide;a binary compound of carbon with a more electropositive element
earwax;a soft yellow wax secreted by glands in the ear canal
glucinium;a light strong brittle gray toxic bivalent metallic element
ni resist iron;cast iron consisting of graphite in a matrix of austenite
tambac;an alloy of copper and zinc (and sometimes arsenic) used to imitate gold in cheap jewelry and for gilding
naval brass;alpha-beta brass containing tin. resistant to sea water. admiralty metal is a trademark
rioja;dry red table wine from the rioja region of northern spain
yak s milk;the milk of a yak
tom collins;tall iced drink of liquor (usually gin) with fruit juice
tri iodothyronine;thyronine with three iodine atoms added
ratafia;sweet liqueur made from wine and brandy flavored with plum or peach or apricot kernels and bitter almonds
synthetic;a compound made artificially by chemical reactions
mire;a soft wet area of low-lying land that sinks underfoot
hyper eutectoid steel;a steel that contains more than 0.9% carbon
soda;a sodium salt of carbonic acid. used in making soap powders and glass and paper
phenolic resin;a thermosetting resin
adenylic acid;a nucleotide found in muscle cells and important in metabolism. reversibly convertible to adp and atp
caffein;a bitter alkaloid found in coffee and tea that is responsible for their stimulating effects
fossil copal;partly mineralized copal dug from the ground
slough;a stagnant swamp (especially as part of a bayou)
pa;a short-lived radioactive metallic element formed from uranium and disintegrating into actinium and then into lead
orthophosphoric acid;an acid used in fertilizers and soaps: h3po4
tilth;land that is worked by plowing and sowing and raising crops
grapefruit juice;bottled juice of grapes
linolic acid;a liquid polyunsaturated fatty acid abundant in plant fats and oils. a fatty acid essential for nutrition. used to make soap
chrome nickel steel;elinvar is a trademark for a kind of nickel-chromium steel used for watch springs because its elasticity is constant over a wide range of temperatures
blended whisky;mixture of two or more whiskeys or of a whiskey and neutral spirits
inorganic compound;any compound that does not contain carbon
atomic number;a soft yellowish-white trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. can be recovered from bastnasite or monazite by an ion-exchange process
stand oil;a thick oil comprised of linseed, tung, or soya oils which have been heated to over 300 c
carotene;an orange isomer of an unsaturated hydrocarbon found in many plants. is converted into vitamin a in the liver
atomic number;a soft silver-white or yellowish metallic element of the alkali metal group. turns yellow in air. occurs in celestite and strontianite
ingot iron;iron of high purity
pyroligneous acid;a red-brown liquid formed in distillation of wood which contains acetic acid, methanol, acetone, wood oils, and tars
potassium hydrogen tartrate;a salt used especially in baking powder
ir;a heavy brittle metallic element of the platinum group. used in alloys. occurs in natural alloys with platinum or osmium
cumarone;a colorless oily compound extracted from coal tar and used in manufacturing synthetic resins
philosopher s wool;oxide of zinc. a white powder used as a pigment or in cosmetics or glass or inks and in zinc ointment
aniline oil;oily poisonous liquid amine obtained from nitrobenzene and used to make dyes and plastics and medicines
acid;any of various water-soluble compounds having a sour taste and capable of turning litmus red and reacting with a base to form a salt
tombac;an alloy of copper and zinc (and sometimes arsenic) used to imitate gold in cheap jewelry and for gilding
simple protein;a protein that yields only amino acids when hydrolyzed
erythrolysin;any substance that can cause lysis (destruction) of erythrocytes (red blood cells) and the release of their hemoglobin
bloody shame;bloody_mary without alcohol
cadmium;a soft bluish-white ductile malleable toxic bivalent metallic element. occurs in association with zinc ores
zirconium dioxide;a white crystalline oxide. used in refractories and in insulation and abrasives and enamels and glazes
he;a very light colorless element that is one of the six inert gasses. the most difficult gas to liquefy. occurs in economically extractable amounts in certain natural gases (as those found in texas and kansas)
atomic number;a heavy ductile magnetic metallic element. is silver-white in pure form but readily rusts. used in construction and tools and armament. plays a role in the transport of oxygen by the blood
scrap iron;iron to be remelted and reworked
milk;milk obtained from dairy cows
peroxide;a viscous liquid with strong oxidizing properties. a powerful bleaching agent. also used as a disinfectant and (in strong concentrations) as an oxidant in rocket fuels
straw wine;sweet wine from grapes partially sun-dried on the vine or on straw mats
hydrogen sulfide;a sulfide having the unpleasant smell of rotten eggs
hydroxyproline;a crystalline amino acid obtained from gelatin or collagen
manhattan;whiskey and sweet vermouth with a dash of bitters
slaked lime;a caustic substance (ca(oh)2) produced by heating limestone
corrosive;a substance having the tendency to cause corrosion (such a strong acids or alkali)
ade;a sweetened beverage of diluted fruit juice
aluminum chloride;a chloride used as a wood preservative or catalyst
sodium bicarbonate;a white soluble compound used in effervescent drinks and in baking powders and as an antacid
os;a hard brittle blue-gray or blue-black metallic element that is one of the platinum metals. the heaviest metal known
ethanediol;a sweet but poisonous syrupy liquid used as an antifreeze and solvent
frozen orange juice;orange juice that has been concentrated and frozen
bone oil;the liquid portion of bone fat. used as a lubricant and in leather manufacture
ground;"what plants grow in (especially with reference to its quality or use). 'the land had never been plowed'. 'good agricultural soil'"
atomic number;a soft silver-white univalent element of the alkali metal group. the lightest metal known. occurs in several minerals
rhennish;any of several white wines from the rhine river valley in germany ('hock' is british usage)
2 methylpropenoic acid;an unsaturated acid (c4h6o2) used to make resins and plastics
spring water;underground water that is held in the soil and in pervious rocks
inulin;used to manufacture fructose and in assessing kidney function
absinth;strong green liqueur flavored with wormwood and anise
nb;a soft gray ductile metallic element used in alloys. occurs in niobite. formerly called columbium
seltzer;effervescent beverage artificially charged with carbon dioxide
paraffin scale;partly refined paraffin wax
sodium dichromate;a red-orange salt used as a mordant
oleoresin;a naturally occurring mixture of a resin and an essential oil. obtained from certain plants
liquid;a substance in the fluid state of matter having no fixed shape but a fixed volume
deoxyribonucleic acid;a nucleic acid consisting of large molecules shaped like a double helix. associated with the transmission of genetic information
aldol;an oily colorless liquid obtained by the condensation of two molecules of acetaldehyde
grasshopper;creme de menthe and cream sometimes with creme de cacao
wood tar;any tar obtained by the destructive distillation of wood
gin sling;a sling made with gin
phenoplast;a thermosetting resin
plutonium;a radioactive transuranic element that is similar to uranium. found in minute quantities in uranium ores but is usually synthesized in nuclear reactors. 13 isotopes are known with the most important being plutonium 239
methyl bromide;a poisonous gas or liquid (ch3br) used to fumigate rodents, worms, etc.
mineral oil;a distillate of petroleum, especially one used medicinally
helium;a very light colorless element that is one of the six inert gasses. the most difficult gas to liquefy. occurs in economically extractable amounts in certain natural gases (as those found in texas and kansas)
grain alcohol;the intoxicating agent in fermented and distilled liquors. used pure or denatured as a solvent or in medicines and colognes and cleaning solutions and rocket fuel
salol;a white powder with a pleasant taste and odor. used to absorb light in sun tan lotions or as a preservative or an antiseptic or a coating for pills in which the medicine is intended for enteric release
ethyl alcohol;the intoxicating agent in fermented and distilled liquors. used pure or denatured as a solvent or in medicines and colognes and cleaning solutions and rocket fuel
corn;distilled from a mash of not less than 80 percent corn
kauri resin;resin of the kauri trees of n zealand. found usually as a fossil. also collected for making varnishes and linoleum
atomic number;a ductile silvery-white ductile ferromagnetic trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group
sodium chlorate;a colorless salt (naclo3) used as a weed killer and an antiseptic
canary wine;a sweet white wine from the canary islands
epinephrin;a hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla in response to stress (trade name adrenalin). stimulates autonomic nerve action
ormolu;brass that looks like gold. used to decorate furniture
leaf fat;fat lining the abdomen and kidneys in hogs which is used to make lard
moonshine;illegally whiskey distilled from a corn mash
dibasic acid;an acid containing two replaceable hydrogen atoms per molecule
atomic number;a brittle silver-white metalloid element that is related to selenium and sulfur. it is used in alloys and as a semiconductor. occurs mainly as tellurides in ores of copper and nickel and silver and gold
curare;a toxic alkaloid found in certain tropical south american trees that is a powerful relaxant for striated muscles. used by south american indians as an arrow poison. 'curare acts by blocking cholinergic transmission at the myoneural junction'
atomic number;a soft heavy toxic malleable metallic element. bluish white when freshly cut but tarnishes readily to dull gray. 'the children were playing with lead soldiers'
se;a toxic nonmetallic element related to sulfur and tellurium. occurs in several allotropic forms. a stable gray metallike allotrope conducts electricity better in the light than in the dark and is used in photocells. occurs in sulfide ores (as pyrite)
permanganate;a dark purple salt of permanganic acid. in water solution it is used as a disinfectant and antiseptic
phenylethylene;a colorless oily liquid. the monomer for polystyrene
courbaril copal;resin from the courbaril tree
y;a silvery metallic element that is common in rare-earth minerals. used in magnesium and aluminum alloys
juniperic acid;a crystalline acid found in the exudations of some conifers
hydroxide;a chemical compound containing the hydroxyl group
sodium hypochlorite;an unstable salt (naocl) used as a bleaching agent and disinfectant
terpene;an unsaturated hydrocarbon obtained from plants
nitrous acid;an unstable inorganic acid known only in solution and as nitrite salts
cerumen;a soft yellow wax secreted by glands in the ear canal
glyceryl ester;an ester of glycerol
propylene;a flammable gas obtained by cracking petroleum. used in organic synthesis
myristic acid;a saturated fatty acid occurring naturally in animal and vegetable fats
tonic;lime- or lemon-flavored carbonated water containing quinine
maleate;a salt or ester of maleic acid
duralumin;(trademark) an aluminum-based alloy
silicon bronze;a bronze with 2-3% silicon that is resistant to corrosion
wetland;a low area where the land is saturated with water
vanadic acid;any of various oxyacids of vanadium. known mostly in the form of its salts
mrna;the form of rna that carries information from dna in the nucleus to the ribosome sites of protein synthesis in the cell
altar wine;used in a communion service
beet sugar;sugar made from sugar beets
mendelevium;a radioactive transuranic element synthesized by bombarding einsteinium with alpha particles
mercury;a heavy silvery toxic univalent and bivalent metallic element. the only metal that is liquid at ordinary temperatures
chromium;a hard brittle blue-white multivalent metallic element. resistant to corrosion and tarnishing
floor wax;a preparation containing wax and used to polish and preserve the finish of floors
tolu;an aromatic balsam
no;a radioactive transuranic element synthesized by bombarding curium with carbon ions. 7 isotopes are known
rock oil;a dark oil consisting mainly of hydrocarbons
diamine;an chemical compound containing two amino groups
koumiss;an alcoholic beverage made from fermented mare's milk. made originally by nomads of central asia
radiochlorine;a radioactive isotope of chlorine
octadecanoic acid;a waxy saturated fatty acid. occurs widely as a glyceride in animal and vegetable fats
neutral spirits;nonflavored alcohol of 95 percent or 190 proof used for blending with straight whiskies and in making gin and liqueurs
love philter;a drink credited with magical power. can make the one who takes it love the one who gave it
alloy iron;cast iron containing alloying elements (usually nickel or chromium or copper or molybdenum) to increase the strength or facilitate heat treatment
carbon disulfide;a toxic colorless flammable liquid (cs2). used in the manufacture of rayon and cellophane and carbon tetrachloride and as a solvent for rubber
limonene;a liquid terpene with a lemon odor. found in lemons and oranges and other essential oils
grappa;italian brandy made from residue of grapes after pressing
sour mash;any whiskey distilled from sour mash
fluoroboric acid;an acid of fluorine and boron
labdanum;a dark brown to greenish oleoresin that has a fragrant odor and is used as a fixative in perfumes. obtained as a juice from certain rockroses
neodymium;a yellow trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group. occurs in monazite and bastnasite in association with cerium and lanthanum and praseodymium
highball;alcoholic liquor mixed with water or a carbonated beverage and served in a tall glass
quicksilver;a heavy silvery toxic univalent and bivalent metallic element. the only metal that is liquid at ordinary temperatures
vegetable wax;wax from plants. especially from the trunks of certain palms
paraffin oil;british usage
palladium;a sliver-white metallic element of the platinum group that resembles platinum. occurs in some copper and nickel ores. does not tarnish at ordinary temperatures and is used (alloyed with gold) in jewelry
atomic number;a soft silvery metallic element of the rare earth group having no stable isotope. was discovered in radioactive form as a fission product of uranium
azadirachtin;insecticide
cassiri;a drink resembling beer. made from fermented cassava juice
muscat;wine from muscat grapes
metallic element;any of several chemical elements that are usually shiny solids that conduct heat or electricity and can be formed into sheets etc.
wood spirit;a light volatile flammable poisonous liquid alcohol. used as an antifreeze and solvent and fuel and as a denaturant for ethyl alcohol
hyponitrous acid;an explosive white crystalline weak acid (h2n2o2)
fig wax;a hard cream-colored wax obtained from a javanese fig tree
nitrite;salt or ester of nitrous acid
cupric sulfate;a copper salt made by the action of sulfuric acid on copper oxide
plexiglass;(trademark) a light transparent weather resistant thermoplastic
coordination compound;a compound described in terms of the central atom to which other atoms are bound or coordinated
bock beer;strong dark beer brewed in the fall and aged through the winter for spring consumption
overburden;the surface soil that must be moved away to get at coal seams and mineral deposits
tetrachloromethane;a colorless nonflammable liquid used as a solvent for fats and oils. because of its toxicity its use as a cleaning fluid or fire extinguisher has declined
hydromel;honey diluted in water. becomes mead when fermented
fixative;a compound (such as ethanol or formaldehyde) that fixes tissues and cells for microscopic study
iodothyronine;thyronine with iodine added
glauber s salt;(na2so4.10h2o) a colorless salt used as a cathartic
allyl alcohol;an unsaturated primary alcohol present in wood spirit. use to make resins and plasticizers and pharmaceuticals
tannic acid;any of various complex phenolic substances of plant origin. used in tanning and in medicine
bromide;any of the salts of hydrobromic acid. used as a sedative
calomel;a tasteless colorless powder used medicinally as a cathartic
phthalic anhydride;a white cyclic anhydride
sulfuric acid;(h2so4) a highly corrosive acid made from sulfur dioxide. widely used in the chemical industry
bloody mary;vodka and spicy tomato juice
noradrenaline;a hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla and also released at synapses
carbohydrate;an essential structural component of living cells and source of energy for animals. includes simple sugars with small molecules as well as macromolecular substances. are classified according to the number of monosaccharide groups they contain
element;a transuranic element
munich beer;imported from germany
spruce beer;a fermented alcoholic beverage made of molasses and spruce twigs fermented with yeast
atomic number;a colorless and odorless inert gas. one of the six inert gases. comprises approximately 1% of the earth's atmosphere
malt sugar;a white crystalline sugar formed during the digestion of starches
rose wine;pinkish table wine from red grapes whose skins were removed after fermentation began
atomic number;a rare polyvalent metallic element of the platinum group. it is found associated with platinum
polish;a preparation used in polishing
guinness;a kind of bitter stout
permafrost;ground that is permanently frozen
atomic number;a heavy silvery toxic univalent and bivalent metallic element. the only metal that is liquid at ordinary temperatures
ferrocyanide;salt of ferrocyanic acid usually obtained by a reaction of a cyanide with iron sulphate
ceratin;a fibrous scleroprotein that occurs in the outer layer of the skin and in horny tissues such as hair feathers nails and hooves
sloe gin;gin flavored with sloes (fruit of the blackthorn)
re;a rare heavy polyvalent metallic element that resembles manganese chemically and is used in some alloys. is obtained as a by-product in refining molybdenum
pva;a vinyl polymer used especially in paints or adhesives
tisane;infusion of e.g. dried or fresh flowers or leaves
taconite;a variety of chert containing magnetite and hematite. mined as a low-grade iron ore
babassu oil;fatty oil from kernels of babassu nuts similar to coconut oil
marbling;the intermixture of fat and lean in a cut of meat
amyloid;(pathology) a waxy translucent complex protein resembling starch that results from degeneration of tissue
lye;a strong solution of sodium or potassium hydroxide
fat;a soft greasy substance occurring in organic tissue. 'pizza has too much fat'
olive oil;oil from olives
sodium bichromate;a red-orange salt used as a mordant
columbium;a former name for niobium
marsh gas;methane gas produced when vegetation decomposes in water
antimony potassium tartrate;a poisonous colorless salt used as a mordant and in medicine
deoxyribose;a sugar that is a constituent of nucleic acids
epinephrine;a hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla in response to stress (trade name adrenalin). stimulates autonomic nerve action
n;a common nonmetallic element that is normally a colorless odorless tasteless inert diatomic gas. constitutes 78 percent of the atmosphere by volume. a constituent of all living tissues
damascus steel;a hard resilient steel often decorated and used for sword blades
itaconic acid;a crystalline carboxylic acid. occurs in some fermentations of sugars
air gas;a gas made of carbon monoxide and hydrogen and nitrogen. made by passing air over hot coke
atomic number;a bivalent and trivalent metallic element of the rare earth group
sewer gas;foul-smelling gas that forms in sewers
high speed steel;an alloy steel that remains hard at a red heat. used to make metal-cutting tools
bullshot;vodka and beef bouillon or consomme
guinea gold;22-karat gold from which guinea coins were made
fruit sugar;a simple sugar found in honey and in many ripe fruits
exhaust fumes;gases ejected from an engine as waste products
hydroxide;a compound of an oxide with water
acrylonitrile;a colorless liquid unsaturated nitrile made from propene
mulled cider;sweet cider heated with spices and citrus fruit
atomic number;a soft silvery white toxic metallic element used in steel alloys. it occurs in several complex minerals including carnotite and vanadinite
hot chocolate;made from baking chocolate or cocoa powder and milk and sugar
enamine;an amine containing the double bond linkage -c=c-n-
borosilicate;a salt of boric and silicic acids
anhydride;a compound formed from one or more other compounds in a reaction resulting in removal of water
jamaica rum;heavy pungent rum from jamaica
goats;the milk of a goat
tyrosine;an amino acid found in most proteins. a precursor of several hormones
hypophosphorous acid;a clear or yellow-colored monobasic acid (h3po2)
oil of cloves;essential oil obtained from cloves and used to flavor medicines
hypophosphoric acid;a crystalline tetrabasic acid (h4p2o6)
milk sugar;a sugar comprising one glucose molecule linked to a galactose molecule. occurs only in milk. 'cow's milk contains about 4.7% lactose'
creme de menthe;sweet green or white mint-flavored liqueur
sugar of lead;a poisonous white solid (pb[ch3co]2) used in dyeing cotton and in making enamels and varnishes
fibrin;a white insoluble fibrous protein formed by the action of thrombin on fibrinogen when blood clots. it forms a network that traps red cells and platelets
chardonnay;dry white chablis-type table wine made from chardonnay grapes
hootch;an illicitly distilled (and usually inferior) alcoholic liquor
levulose;a simple sugar found in honey and in many ripe fruits
chrome;another word for chromium when it is used in dyes or pigments
amyloid;a nonnitrogenous food substance consisting chiefly of starch. any substance resembling starch
nickel silver;a silver-white alloy containing copper and zinc and nickel
kahlua;coffee-flavored liqueur made in mexico
graphite;used as a lubricant and as a moderator in nuclear reactors
cs;a soft silver-white ductile metallic element (liquid at normal temperatures). the most electropositive and alkaline metal
silver;a soft white precious univalent metallic element having the highest electrical and thermal conductivity of any metal. occurs in argentite and in free form. used in coins and jewelry and tableware and photography
hock;any of several white wines from the rhine river valley in germany ('hock' is british usage)
cyanamide;a compound used as a fertilizer and as a source of nitrogen compounds
uranium;the commonest isotope of uranium. it is not fissionable but when irradiated with neutrons it produces fissionable plutonium 239
milk punch;a punch made of spirits and milk and sugar and spices
cornstarch;starch prepared from the grains of corn. used in cooking as a thickener
starch;a complex carbohydrate found chiefly in seeds, fruits, tubers, roots and stem pith of plants, notably in corn, potatoes, wheat, and rice. an important foodstuff and used otherwise especially in adhesives and as fillers and stiffeners for paper and textiles
corn sugar;dextrose made by hydrolysis of cornstarch
cannabis resin;a poisonous resin obtained from the hemp plant. thought to be the active narcotic agent
pig iron;crude iron tapped from a blast furnace
si;a tetravalent nonmetallic element. next to oxygen it is the most abundant element in the earth's crust. occurs in clay and feldspar and granite and quartz and sand. used as a semiconductor in transistors
holland gin;made in the netherlands
tuna oil;an oil obtained from tuna
barbituric acid;a white crystalline acid derived from pyrimidine. used in preparing barbiturate drugs
sodium phosphate;phosphate of sodium
sugar water;water sweetened with sugar
port wine;sweet dark-red dessert wine originally from portugal
shoe polish;a substance used to produce a shiny protective surface on footwear
ouzo;anise-flavored greek liquor
sweet vermouth;sweet dark amber variety
isopropanol;used as antifreeze or a solvent
carbonic acid;a weak acid known only in solution. formed when carbon dioxide combines with water
ratafee;sweet liqueur made from wine and brandy flavored with plum or peach or apricot kernels and bitter almonds
condensed milk;sweetened evaporated milk
german silver;a silver-white alloy containing copper and zinc and nickel
scammony;resin from the root of convolvulus scammonia
cafe noir;small cup of strong black coffee without milk or cream
hydriodic acid;(hi) a colorless or yellow aqueous solution of hydrogen iodide. 'hydriodic acid is a strong acid'
aquavit;scandinavian liquor usually flavored with caraway seeds
oil;a slippery or viscous liquid or liquefiable substance not miscible with water
moselle;german white wine from the moselle valley or a similar wine made elsewhere
