favouritism;an inclination to favor some person or group
predisposition;an inclination beforehand to interpret statements in a particular way
utopianism;the political orientation of a utopian who believes in impossibly idealistic schemes social perfection
religious orientation;an attitude toward religion or religious practices
communism;a political theory favoring collectivism in a classless society
estimate;the respect with which a person is held. 'they had a high estimation of his ability'
respect;an attitude of admiration or esteem. 'she lost all respect for him'
political orientation;an orientation that characterizes the thinking of a group or nation
mental block;an inability to remember or think of something you normally can do. often caused by emotional tension. 'i knew his name perfectly well but i had a temporary block'
favoritism;an inclination to favor some person or group
idiocy;extreme mental retardation
utopian socialism;socialism achieved by voluntary sacrifice
reorientation;a new orientation. a changed set of attitudes and beliefs
ineptness;unskillfulness resulting from a lack of training
monarchism;a belief in and advocacy of monarchy as a political system
sight;a range of mental vision. 'in his sight she could do no wrong'
militarism;aggressiveness that involves the threat of using military force
feeblemindedness;severe mental deficiency
prejudice;a partiality that prevents objective consideration of an issue or situation
down s syndrome;a congenital disorder caused by having an extra 21st chromosome. results in a flat face and short stature and mental retardation
provincialism;a lack of sophistication
legalism;strict conformity to the letter of the law rather than its spirit
unfairness;partiality that is not fair or equitable
disinterest;tolerance attributable to a lack of involvement
incoordination;a lack of coordination of movements
position;a way of regarding situations or topics etc.. 'consider what follows from the positivist view'
triteness;unoriginality as a result of being dull and hackneyed
understanding;an inclination to support or be loyal to or to agree with an opinion. 'his sympathies were always with the underdog'. 'i knew i could count on his understanding'
nonconformance;a lack of conformity
viewpoint;a mental position from which things are viewed. 'we should consider this problem from the viewpoint of the russians'. 'teaching history gave him a special point of view toward current events'
mental attitude;"a complex mental orientation involving beliefs and feelings and values and dispositions to act in certain ways. 'he had the attitude that work was fun'"
staleness;unoriginality as a result of being dull and hackneyed
hardball;a no-nonsense attitude in business or politics. 'they play hardball in the senate'
disapproval;an inclination to withhold approval from some person or group
drift;a general tendency as of opinion: 'not openly liberal but that is the tendency of the book'
totalitarianism;the principle of complete and unrestricted power in government
abnormality;retardation sufficient to fall outside the normal range of intelligence
liberalism;a political orientation that favors progress and reform
libertarianism;an ideological belief in freedom of thought and speech
predilection;a predisposition in favor of something
sectionalism;a partiality for some particular place
absolutism;the principle of complete and unrestricted power in government
inclination;an attitude of mind especially one that favors one alternative over others. 'he had an inclination to give up too easily'. 'a tendency to be too strict'
propensity;a natural inclination. 'he has a proclivity for exaggeration'
posture;a rationalized mental attitude
slowness;lack of normal development of intellectual capacities
agnosticism;a religious orientation of doubt. a denial of ultimate knowledge of the existence of god. 'agnosticism holds that you can neither prove nor disprove god's existence'
pettiness;narrowness of mind or ideas or views
report;the general estimation that the public has for a person. 'he acquired a reputation as an actor before he started writing'. 'he was a person of bad report'
dulness;the quality of being slow to understand
partisanship;an inclination to favor one group or view or opinion over alternatives
profaneness;an attitude of irreverence or contempt for a divinity
incapability;lack of potential for development
intolerance;unwillingness to recognize and respect differences in opinions or beliefs
camp;something that is considered amusing not because of its originality but because of its unoriginality. 'the livingroom was pure camp'
racism;the prejudice that members of one race are intrinsically superior to members of other races
disrespect;a disrespectful mental attitude
conformism;orthodoxy in thoughts and belief
nonpartisanship;an inclination to weigh both views or opinions equally
block;an inability to remember or think of something you normally can do. often caused by emotional tension. 'i knew his name perfectly well but i had a temporary block'
awkwardness;unskillfulness resulting from a lack of training
nonconformity;a lack of conformity
partiality;an inclination to favor one group or view or opinion over alternatives
paradigm;the generally accepted perspective of a particular discipline at a given time. 'he framed the problem within the psychoanalytic paradigm'
moderatism;a moderate political orientation. an avoidance of extremes
dogmatism;the intolerance and prejudice of a bigot
tolerance;willingness to recognize and respect the beliefs or practices of others
inefficiency;unskillfulness resulting from a lack of efficiency
credence;the mental attitude that something is believable and should be accepted as true. 'he gave credence to the gossip'. 'acceptance of newtonian mechanics was unquestioned for 200 years'
anti catholicism;a religious orientation opposed to catholicism
fabianism;(british) socialism to be established by gradual reforms within the law
disfavour;an inclination to withhold approval from some person or group
mongolianism;a congenital disorder caused by having an extra 21st chromosome. results in a flat face and short stature and mental retardation
subnormality;lack of normal development of intellectual capacities
conventionality;unoriginality as a result of being too conventional
reaction;extreme conservatism in political or social matters. 'the forces of reaction carried the election'
tendency;an attitude of mind especially one that favors one alternative over others. 'he had an inclination to give up too easily'. 'a tendency to be too strict'
proclivity;a natural inclination. 'he has a proclivity for exaggeration'
constitutionalism;advocacy of a system of government according to constitutional principles
zealotry;excessive intolerance of opposing views
machiavellianism;the political doctrine of machiavelli: any means (however unscrupulous) can be used by a ruler in order to create and maintain his autocratic government
democracy;the political orientation of those who favor government by the people of by their elected representatives
godlessness;the doctrine or belief that there is no god
talentlessness;a lack of talent
anthropocentricity;an inclination to evaluate reality exclusively in terms of human values
reverence;a reverent mental attitude
mental retardation;lack of normal development of intellectual capacities
republicanism;the political orientation of those who hold that a republic is the best form of government
amateurishness;something that demonstrates a lack of professional competency
reprobation;severe disapproval
acceptance;the mental attitude that something is believable and should be accepted as true. 'he gave credence to the gossip'. 'acceptance of newtonian mechanics was unquestioned for 200 years'
war advocacy;a policy of advocating war
angle;a biased way of looking at or presenting something
forefront;the position of greatest advancement. the leading position in any movement or field
position;a rationalized mental attitude
jacobinism;the ideology of the most radical element of the french revolution that instituted the reign of terror
attitude;"a complex mental orientation involving beliefs and feelings and values and dispositions to act in certain ways. 'he had the attitude that work was fun'"
provincialism;a partiality for some particular place
iconoclasm;the orientation of an iconoclast
socialism;a political theory advocating state ownership of industry
bias;a partiality that prevents objective consideration of an issue or situation
clumsiness;unskillfulness resulting from a lack of training
neutrality;tolerance attributable to a lack of involvement
fanaticism;excessive intolerance of opposing views
outlook;a habitual or characteristic mental attitude
amentia;extreme mental retardation
sympathy;an inclination to support or be loyal to or to agree with an opinion. 'his sympathies were always with the underdog'. 'i knew i could count on his understanding'
hawkishness;any political orientation favoring aggressive policies
unoriginality;uncreativeness due to a lack of originality
writer s block;an inability to write. 'he had writer's block. the words wouldn't come'
light;a particular perspective or aspect of a situation. 'although he saw it in a different light, he still did not understand'
imbecility;retardation more severe than a moron but not as severe as an idiot
dislike;an inclination to withhold approval from some person or group
estimation;the respect with which a person is held. 'they had a high estimation of his ability'
extremism;any political theory favoring immoderate uncompromising policies
cutting edge;the position of greatest advancement. the leading position in any movement or field
ineptitude;unskillfulness resulting from a lack of training
heresy;any opinions or doctrines at variance with the official or orthodox position
parochialism;a limitation of views or interests like that defined by a local parish
fair mindedness;ability to make judgments free from discrimination or dishonesty
orientation;an integrated set of attitudes and beliefs
fascism;a political theory advocating an authoritarian hierarchical government (as opposed to democracy or liberalism)
liberalness;an inclination to favor progress and individual freedom
white supremacy;the prejudice that members of the white race are superior to members of other races
doghouse;an informal term for disfavor. 'he is in the doghouse'
denseness;the quality of being mentally slow and limited
paternalism;the attitude (of a person or a government) that subordinates should be controlled in a fatherly way for their own good
unskillfulness;a lack of cognitive skill
slant;a biased way of looking at or presenting something
inability;"lack of ability (especially mental ability) to do something"
set;a relatively permanent inclination to react in a particular way. 'the set of his mind was obvious'
dumbness;the quality of being mentally slow and limited
sectarianism;a narrow-minded adherence to a particular sect or party or denomination. 'he condemned religious sectarianism'
fruitlessness;a lack of creative imagination
craziness;the quality of being rash and foolish
folly;the quality of being rash and foolish
tendentiousness;an intentional and controversial bias
conventionality;conformity with conventional thought and behavior
retardation;lack of normal development of intellectual capacities
uncreativeness;a lack of creativity
foolishness;the quality of being rash and foolish
conservatism;a political orientation advocating the preservation of the best in society and opposing radical changes
dovishness;any political orientation favoring compromise to avoid conflict
favor;an inclination to approve. 'that style is in favor this season'
backwardness;lack of normal development of intellectual capacities
guild socialism;a form of socialist theory advocating state ownership of industry but managements by guilds of workers
illiteracy;an inability to read
slow wittedness;the quality of being mentally slow and limited
southernism;a attitude characteristic of southerners (especially in the us)
candor;ability to make judgments free from discrimination or dishonesty
anarchism;a political theory favoring the abolition of governments
inequity;partiality that is not fair or equitable
denominationalism;a narrow-minded adherence to a particular sect or party or denomination. 'he condemned religious sectarianism'
inaptitude;a lack of aptitude
neoliberalism;a political orientation originating in the 1960s. blends liberal political views with an emphasis on economic growth
totalism;the principle of complete and unrestricted power in government
disfavor;an inclination to withhold approval from some person or group
standpoint;a mental position from which things are viewed. 'we should consider this problem from the viewpoint of the russians'. 'teaching history gave him a special point of view toward current events'
irreverence;an irreverent mental attitude
leaning;a natural inclination. 'he has a proclivity for exaggeration'
candour;ability to make judgments free from discrimination or dishonesty
imperfectability;the incapability of becoming perfect
liberality;an inclination to favor progress and individual freedom
heterodoxy;any opinions or doctrines at variance with the official or orthodox position
view;a way of regarding situations or topics etc.. 'consider what follows from the positivist view'
imperfectibility;the incapability of becoming perfect
experimentalism;an orientation that favors experimentation and innovation. 'the children of psycholoigsts are often raised in an atmosphere of experimentalism'
disposition;an attitude of mind especially one that favors one alternative over others. 'he had an inclination to give up too easily'. 'a tendency to be too strict'
political theory;an orientation that characterizes the thinking of a group or nation
favour;an inclination to approve. 'that style is in favor this season'
broad mindedness;an inclination to tolerate or overlook opposing or shocking opinions or behavior
federalism;the idea of a federal organization of more or less self-governing units
perspective;a way of regarding situations or topics etc.. 'consider what follows from the positivist view'
bigotry;the intolerance and prejudice of a bigot
slowness;unskillfulness resulting from a lack of training
moronity;mild mental retardation
atheism;the doctrine or belief that there is no god
stand;a mental position from which things are viewed. 'we should consider this problem from the viewpoint of the russians'. 'teaching history gave him a special point of view toward current events'
vanguard;the position of greatest advancement. the leading position in any movement or field
homophobia;prejudice against (fear or dislike of) homosexual people and homosexuality
stupidity;a poor ability to understand or to profit from experience
bent;a relatively permanent inclination to react in a particular way. 'the set of his mind was obvious'
social democracy;the belief in a gradual transition from capitalism to socialism by democratic means
literalism;a disposition to interpret statements in their literal sense
wavelength;a shared orientation leading to mutual understanding. 'they are on the same wavelength'
peace advocacy;any policy that advocates maintaining peaceful international relations
elitism;the attitude that society should be governed by an elite group of individuals
esteem;an attitude of admiration or esteem. 'she lost all respect for him'
mental defectiveness;retardation sufficient to fall outside the normal range of intelligence
ideology;an orientation that characterizes the thinking of a group or nation
call;a special disposition (as if from a divine source) to pursue a particular course. 'he was disappointed that he had not heard the call'
collectivism;a political theory that the people should own the means of production
localism;a partiality for some particular place
warmongering;a policy of advocating war
narrow mindedness;an inclination to criticize opposing opinions or chocking behavior
disinterestedness;freedom from bias or selfish motives
trisomy;a congenital disorder caused by having an extra 21st chromosome. results in a flat face and short stature and mental retardation
impartiality;an inclination to weigh both views or opinions equally
incapacity;lack of intellectual power
anthropocentrism;an inclination to evaluate reality exclusively in terms of human values
weltanschauung;a comprehensive view of the world and human life
conformity;orthodoxy in thoughts and belief
radicalism;the political orientation of those who favor revolutionary change in government and society
regard;an attitude of admiration or esteem. 'she lost all respect for him'
point of view;a mental position from which things are viewed. 'we should consider this problem from the viewpoint of the russians'. 'teaching history gave him a special point of view toward current events'
fairness;ability to make judgments free from discrimination or dishonesty
devices;an inclination or desire. used in the plural in the phrase 'left to your own devices'. 'the children were left to their own devices'
anti semitism;the intense dislike for and prejudice against jewish people
progressivism;the political orientation of those who favor progress toward better conditions in government and society
maladroitness;unskillfulness resulting from a lack of training
obtuseness;the quality of being slow to understand
autocracy;a political theory favoring unlimited authority by a single individual
reputation;the general estimation that the public has for a person. 'he acquired a reputation as an actor before he started writing'. 'he was a person of bad report'
ethnocentrism;belief in the superiority of one's own ethnic group
mentality;a habitual or characteristic mental attitude
mental deficiency;mild mental retardation
incapableness;lack of potential for development
unorthodoxy;any opinions or doctrines at variance with the official or orthodox position
orthodoxy;a belief or orientation agreeing with conventional standards
reactionism;the political orientation of reactionaries
negritude;an ideological position that holds black culture to be independent and valid on its own terms
imperialism;a political orientation that advocates imperial interests
theocracy;the belief in government by divine guidance
defensive attitude;an attitude of defense. especially in the phrase 'on the defensive'
dullness;the quality of being slow to understand
preference;a predisposition in favor of something
mongolism;a congenital disorder caused by having an extra 21st chromosome. results in a flat face and short stature and mental retardation
trend;a general tendency as of opinion: 'not openly liberal but that is the tendency of the book'
clockwork universe;the view that the universe resembles a clock built by god and ticking along according to newtonian mechanics
gnosticism;a religious orientation advocating gnosis as the way to release a person's spiritual element. considered heresy by christian churches
meritocracy;the belief that rulers should be chosen for their superior abilities and not because of their wealth or birth
tilt;a slight but noticeable partiality. 'the court's tilt toward conservative rulings'
down syndrome;a congenital disorder caused by having an extra 21st chromosome. results in a flat face and short stature and mental retardation
direction;a general course along which something has a tendency to develop. 'i couldn't follow the direction of his thoughts'. 'his ideals determined the direction of his career'. 'they proposed a new direction for the firm'
incomprehension;an inability to understand. 'his incomprehension of the consequences'
world view;a comprehensive view of the world and human life
defensive;an attitude of defense. especially in the phrase 'on the defensive'
