huffiness;a passing state of anger and resentment
melancholy;a feeling of thoughtful sadness
calmness;a feeling of calm. an absence of agitation or excitement
search;the examination of alternative hypotheses. 'his search for a move that would avoid checkmate was unsuccessful'
weltschmerz;sadness on thinking about the evils of the world
observance;the act of noticing or paying attention. 'he escaped the notice of the police'
inferiority complex;a sense of personal inferiority arising from conflict between the desire to be noticed and the fear of being humiliated
olfactory perception;the sensation that results when olfactory receptors in the nose are stimulated by particular chemicals in gaseous form. 'she loved the smell of roses'
vindictiveness;a malevolent desire for revenge
absolute threshold;the lowest level of stimulation that a person can detect
differential coefficient;the result of mathematical differentiation. the instantaneous change of one quantity relative to another. df(x)/dx
stocktaking;reappraisal of a situation or position or outlook
blood test;a serologic analysis of a sample of blood
alarm;fear resulting from the awareness of danger
harassment;a feeling of intense annoyance caused by being tormented. 'so great was his harassment that he wanted to destroy his tormentors'
foretelling;prophecy by supernatural means
sixth sense;grasping the inner nature of things intuitively
tenderness;an uncomfortable feeling in some part of the body
attention;the process whereby a person concentrates on some features of the environment to the (relative) exclusion of others
smack;the taste experience when a savoury condiment is taken into the mouth
differential;the result of mathematical differentiation. the instantaneous change of one quantity relative to another. df(x)/dx
buck fever;nervous excitement of an inexperienced hunter
savor;the taste experience when a savoury condiment is taken into the mouth
cogitation;attentive scrutiny and thought. 'after much cogitation he rejected the offer'
sense;a natural appreciation. 'a keen musical sense'. 'a good sense of timing'
salt;the taste experience when salt is taken into the mouth
vogue;the popular taste at a given time. 'leather is the latest vogue'. 'he followed current trends'. 'the 1920s had a style of their own'
thrill;the release of a store of affective force. 'they got a great bang out of it'. 'what a rush!'. 'he does it for kicks'
bravery;feeling no fear
short term memory;what you can repeat immediately after perceiving it
mournfulness;a state of gloomy sorrow
felicity;state of well-being characterized by emotions ranging from contentment to intense joy
elan;a feeling of strong eagerness (usually in favor of a person or cause). 'they were imbued with a revolutionary ardor'. 'he felt a kind of religious zeal'
penchant;a strong liking. 'my own preference is for good literature'. 'the irish have a penchant for blarney'. 'martinis are an acquired taste'
internalization;learning (of values or attitudes etc.) that is incorporated within yourself
widal test;a test for detecting typhoid fever and other salmonella infections
curvature;the rate of change (at a point) of the angle between a curve and a tangent to the curve
flower power;a counterculture of young people in the us during the 1960s and 70s
inquietude;feelings of anxiety that make you tense and irritable
pressure;the somatic sensation of pressure. 'the sensitivity of his skin to pressure and temperature was normal'
identification;the attribution to yourself of the characteristics of others. 'his identification with his father shaped his entire life'
joviality;feeling jolly and jovial and full of good humor
transfer of training;generalization of a skill learned in one situation to a different but similar situation
perusing;reading carefully with intent to remember
affirmative action;a policy designed to redress past discrimination against women and minority groups through measures to improve their economic and educational opportunities. 'affirmative action has been extremely controversial and was challenged in 1978 in the bakke decision'
aggravation;an exasperated feeling of annoyance
discouragement;the feeling of despair in the face of obstacles
shyness;a feeling of fear of embarrassment
judgment;the cognitive process of reaching a decision or drawing conclusions
peace;the absence of mental stress or anxiety
satyriasis;abnormally intense sexual desire in men
regress;the reasoning involved when you assume the conclusion is true and reason backward to the evidence
ideology;imaginary or visionary theorization
apprehensiveness;fearful expectation or anticipation: 'the student looked around the examination room with apprehension'
predilection;a strong liking. 'my own preference is for good literature'. 'the irish have a penchant for blarney'. 'martinis are an acquired taste'
mark;a number or letter indicating quality (especially of a student's performance). 'she made good marks in algebra'. 'grade a milk'. 'what was your score on your homework?'
discomfort;an uncomfortable feeling in some part of the body
sensibility;refined sensitivity to pleasurable or painful impressions. 'cruelty offended his sensibility'
discernment;the cognitive condition of someone who understands. 'he has virtually no understanding of social cause and effect'
pleasure;a fundamental feeling that is hard to define but that people desire to experience. 'he was tingling with pleasure'
furore;an interest followed with exaggerated zeal: 'he always follows the latest fads'. 'it was all the rage that season'
visual sensation;the perceptual experience of seeing. 'the runners emerged from the trees into his clear vision'. 'he had a visual sensation of intense light'
affectionateness;a positive feeling of liking. 'he had trouble expressing the affection he felt'. 'the child won everyone's heart'
consolation;the comfort you feel when consoled in times of disappointment. 'second place was no consolation to him'
embargo;a government order imposing a trade barrier
restiveness;the anxious feeling you have when you have the jitters
sexual desire;a desire for sexual intimacy
way;doing as one pleases or chooses: 'if i had my way'
hurt;psychological suffering. 'the death of his wife caused him great distress'
reductionism;the analysis of complex things into simpler constituents
somaesthesia;the perception of tactual or proprioceptive or gut sensations. 'he relied on somesthesia to warn him of pressure changes'. 'he had a queasy feeling'
enamoredness;a feeling of sexual love
dichotomy;a sorting of a class of things into two mutually exclusive subclasses
tonal pattern;the perception of pleasant arrangements of musical notes
pridefulness;a feeling of self-respect and personal worth
levity;feeling an inappropriate lack of seriousness
cross classification;classification according to more than one attribute at the same time. 'the cross-classification of cases was done by age and sex'
discovery;a productive insight
dispiritedness;a feeling of lowness of spirits
potomania;an intense persistent desire to drink alcoholic beverages to excess
silver lining;a consoling aspect of a difficult situation. 'every cloud has a silver lining' or 'look on the bright side of it'
probing;an inquiry into unfamiliar or questionable activities. 'there was a congressional probe into the scandal'
disappointment;a feeling of dissatisfaction that results when your expectations are not realized. 'his hopes were so high he was doomed to disappointment'
thankfulness;warm friendly feelings of gratitude
distance;indifference by personal withdrawal. 'emotional distance'
conditioning;a learning process in which an organism's behavior becomes dependent on the occurrence of a stimulus in its environment
poring over;reading carefully with intent to remember
entrancement;a feeling of delight at being filled with wonder and enchantment
desolation;sadness resulting from being forsaken or abandoned
suspense;excited anticipation of an approaching climax. 'the play kept the audience in suspense'
ego;an inflated feeling of pride in your superiority to others
concern;an anxious feeling. 'care had aged him'. 'they hushed it up out of fear of public reaction'
ill temper;a persisting angry mood
amicability;a disinclination to quarrel
cut;the style in which a garment is cut. 'a dress of traditional cut'
factorisation;(mathematics) the resolution of an integer or polynomial into factors such that when multiplied together they give the integer or polynomial
astonishment;the feeling that accompanies something extremely surprising. 'he looked at me in astonishment'
figuring;problem solving that involves numbers or quantities
resolving;analysis into clear-cut components
execration;hate coupled with disgust
amour propre;feelings of excessive pride
schadenfreude;malicious satisfaction
retrospect;contemplation of things past. 'in retrospect'
lust;a strong sexual desire
covetousness;an envious eagerness to possess something
fear;an emotion experienced in anticipation of some specific pain or danger (usually accompanied by a desire to flee or fight)
sense of direction;an awareness of your orientation in space
differentiation;a discrimination made between things as different. 'it is necessary to make a distinction between love and infatuation'
aversion;a feeling of intense dislike
astringency;a sharp astringent taste. the taste experience when a substance causes the mouth to pucker
interpretation;an explanation of something that is not immediately obvious. 'the edict was subject to many interpretations'. 'he annoyed us with his interpreting of parables'
torture;intense feelings of suffering. acute mental or physical pain. 'an agony of doubt'. 'the torments of the damned'
oedipal complex;a complex of males. desire to possess the mother sexually and to exclude the father. said to be a source of personality disorders if unresolved
rote learning;memorization by repetition
broad interpretation;an interpretation of the u.s. constitution holding that the spirit of the times and the needs of the nation can legitimately influence judicial decisions (particularly decisions of the supreme court)
cognizance;having knowledge of. 'he had no awareness of his mistakes'. 'his sudden consciousness of the problem he faced'. 'their intelligence and general knowingness was impressive'
peevishness;an irritable petulant feeling
unconcern;a feeling of lack of concern
warpath;hostile or belligerent mood: 'the chief is on the warpath today'
train of thought;the connections that link the various parts of an event or argument together. 'i couldn't follow his train of thought'. 'he lost the thread of his argument'
projection;a prediction made by extrapolating from past observations
approval;a feeling of liking something or someone good. 'although she fussed at them, she secretly viewed all her children with approval'
size constancy;the tendency to perceive the veridical size of a familiar object despite differences in their distance (and consequent differences in the size of the pattern projected on the retina of the eye)
american dream;the widespread aspiration of americans to live better than their parents did
resignation;acceptance of despair
self analysis;a penetrating examination of your own beliefs and motives
oedipus complex;a complex of males. desire to possess the mother sexually and to exclude the father. said to be a source of personality disorders if unresolved
memory;the cognitive processes whereby past experience is remembered. 'he can do it from memory'. 'he enjoyed remembering his father'
sadomasochism;sexual pleasure obtained both by inflicting pain or receiving pain
picture;a typical example of some state or quality. 'the very picture of a modern general'. 'she was the picture of despair'
cost benefit analysis;an analysis of the cost effectiveness of different alternatives in order to see whether the benefits outweigh the costs
eclectic method;making decisions on the basis of what seems best instead of following some single doctrine or style
scent;a distinctive odor that is pleasant
chagrin;strong feelings of embarrassment
ethical motive;motivation based on ideas of right and wrong
dysphoria;abnormal depression and discontent
linguistic process;the cognitive processes involved in producing and understanding linguistic communication. 'he didn't have the language to express his feelings'
sourness;the taste experience when vinegar or lemon juice is taken into the mouth
guess;an estimate based on little or no information
zionism;a policy for establishing and developing a national homeland for jews in palestine
lightsomeness;the cheerful feeling you have when nothing is troubling you
crossness;an irritable petulant feeling
complacence;the feeling you have when you are satisfied with yourself. 'his complacency was absolutely disgusting'
joie de vivre;a keen enjoyment of living
unrest;a feeling of restless agitation
pungency;having a sharp bitter flavor
contrast;the perceptual effect of the juxtaposition of very different colors
concupiscence;a desire for sexual intimacy
peace of mind;the absence of mental stress or anxiety
languor;a relaxed comfortable feeling
possible action;a possible alternative. 'bankruptcy is always a possibility'
intellection;the process of thinking (especially thinking carefully). 'thinking always made him frown'. 'she paused for thought'
conversion;a change in the units or form of an expression: 'conversion from fahrenheit to centigrade
letdown;a feeling of dissatisfaction that results when your expectations are not realized. 'his hopes were so high he was doomed to disappointment'
spitefulness;feeling a need to see other suffer
skim;reading or glancing through quickly
taste;a strong liking. 'my own preference is for good literature'. 'the irish have a penchant for blarney'. 'martinis are an acquired taste'
heartsickness;feeling downcast and disheartened and hopeless
ruth;a feeling of sympathy and sorrow for the misfortunes of others. 'the blind are too often objects of pity'
accommodation;in the theories of jean piaget: the modification of internal representations in order to accommodate a changing knowledge of reality
radiance;an attractive combination of good health and happiness. 'the radiance of her countenance'
malevolence;wishing evil to others
compulsion;an urge to do or say something that might be better left undone or unsaid
heat;the sensation caused by heat energy
apathy;an absence of emotion or enthusiasm
exhilaration;the feeling of lively and cheerful joy. 'he could hardly conceal his excitement when she agreed'
sound;the subjective sensation of hearing something. 'he strained to hear the faint sounds'
passionateness;strong feeling or emotion
aversive conditioning;conditioning to avoid an aversive stimulus
charge;(psychoanalysis) the libidinal energy invested in some idea or person or object. 'freud thought of cathexis as a psychic analog of an electrical charge'
perfume;a distinctive odor that is pleasant
gratitude;a feeling of thankfulness and appreciation. 'he was overwhelmed with gratitude for their help'
yearning;prolonged unfulfilled desire or need
retrieval;the cognitive operation of accessing information in memory. 'my retrieval of people's names is very poor'
disconcertment;anxious embarrassment
brooding;persistent morbid meditation on a problem
doublethink;believing two contradictory ideas at the same time
fervency;feelings of great warmth and intensity. 'he spoke with great ardor'
detestation;hate coupled with disgust
frustration;a feeling of annoyance at being hindered or criticized. 'her constant complaints were the main source of his frustration'
second thought;thinking again about a choice previously made. 'he had second thoughts about his purchase'
temper;a sudden outburst of anger. 'his temper sparked like damp firewood'
inattention;lack of attention
immediacy;immediate intuitive awareness
scratch test;a test to determine allergic sensitivity to various substances by applying them to scratches in the skin
misopedia;hatred of children
confidence;a feeling of trust (in someone or something). 'i have confidence in our team'. 'confidence is always borrowed, never owned'
glow;a feeling of considerable warmth. 'the glow of new love'. 'a glow of regret'
temptation;the desire to have or do something that you know you should avoid. 'he felt the temptation and his will power weakened'
dream;a series of mental images and emotions occurring during sleep. 'i had a dream about you last night'
spite;feeling a need to see other suffer
process;"the performance of some composite cognitive activity. an operation that affects mental contents. 'the process of thinking'. 'the act of remembering'"
constancy;the tendency for perceived objects to give rise to very similar perceptual experiences in spite of wide variations in the conditions of observation
fiscal policy;a government policy for dealing with the budget (especially with taxation and borrowing)
picturing;visual imagery
languor;a feeling of lack of interest or energy
enthrallment;a feeling of great liking for something wonderful and unusual
dialectics;a rationale for dialectical materialism based on change through the conflict of opposing forces
fascination;a feeling of great liking for something wonderful and unusual
taste perception;the sensation that results when taste buds in the tongue and throat convey information about the chemical composition of a soluble stimulus. 'the candy left him with a bad taste'. 'the melon had a delicious taste'
analysis;the abstract separation of a whole into its constituent parts for study
reckoning;problem solving that involves numbers or quantities
thinking;the process of thinking (especially thinking carefully). 'thinking always made him frown'. 'she paused for thought'
softheartedness;a feeling of concern for the welfare of someone (especially someone defenseless)
ratiocination;logical and methodical reasoning
dolefulness;sadness caused by grief or affliction
impatience;a restless desire for change and excitement
wish;the particular preference that you have. 'it was his last wish'. 'they should respect the wishes of the people'
bitterness;a feeling of deep and bitter anger and ill-will
sanguineness;feeling sanguine. optimistically cheerful and confident
conceit;feelings of excessive pride
chafe;anger produced by some annoying irritation
mental synthesis;the creation of a construct. the process of combining ideas into a congruous object of thought
counterculture;a culture with lifestyles and values opposed to those of the established culture
guilty conscience;remorse cause by feeling responsible for some offence
ardour;a feeling of strong eagerness (usually in favor of a person or cause). 'they were imbued with a revolutionary ardor'. 'he felt a kind of religious zeal'
self satisfaction;the feeling you have when you are satisfied with yourself. 'his complacency was absolutely disgusting'
horror;intense aversion
revaluation;a new appraisal or evaluation
loneliness;sadness resulting from being forsaken or abandoned
tingle;a pricking somatic sensation
overtone;a harmonic with a frequency that is a multiple of the fundamental frequency
carefreeness;the cheerful feeling you have when nothing is troubling you
fit;a display of bad temper. 'he had a fit'. 'she threw a tantrum'. 'he made a scene'
portrayal;a representation by picture or portraiture
appreciation;delicate discrimination (especially of aesthetic values). 'arrogance and lack of taste contributed to his rapid success'. 'to ask at that particular time was the ultimate in bad taste'
twinge;sudden sharp painful emotion. 'pangs of regret' or 'twinges of conscience'
the green eyed monster;a feeling of grudging admiration and desire to have something possessed by another
saltiness;the taste experience when salt is taken into the mouth
goodwill;the friendly hope that something will succeed
compunction;a feeling of deep regret (usually for some misdeed)
plank;an endorsed policy in the platform of a political party
spirit;the state of a person's emotions (especially with regard to pleasure or dejection). 'his emotional state depended on her opinion'. 'he was in good spirits'. 'his spirit rose'
bonheur;(french) happiness and good humor
chromesthesia;a form of synesthesia in which nonvisual stimulation results in the experience of color sensations
itch;an irritating cutaneous sensation that produces a desire to scratch
breakthrough;a productive insight
arrangement;the thing arranged or agreed to
data conversion;conversion from one way of encoding data to another way
heedlessness;a lack of attentiveness (as to children or helpless people)
meditation;a calm lengthy intent consideration
benevolence;disposition to do good
perkiness;cheerfulness that bubbles to the surface
offense;a feeling of anger caused by an offence. 'give or take umbrage or offense'
repentance;remorse for your past conduct
sweet tooth;a strong appetite for sweet food
contrast;a conceptual separation or demarcation: 'there is a narrow line between sanity and insanity'
ardor;a feeling of strong eagerness (usually in favor of a person or cause). 'they were imbued with a revolutionary ardor'. 'he felt a kind of religious zeal'
jollity;feeling jolly and jovial and full of good humor
line;a conceptual separation or demarcation: 'there is a narrow line between sanity and insanity'
heartsease;the absence of mental stress or anxiety
partiality;a predisposition to like something. 'he had a fondness for whiskey'
distinction;a discrimination made between things as different. 'it is necessary to make a distinction between love and infatuation'
awe;an overwhelming feeling of wonder or admiration. 'he stared over the edge with a feeling of awe'
good will;the friendly hope that something will succeed
cerebration;the process of thinking (especially thinking carefully). 'thinking always made him frown'. 'she paused for thought'
wishing;a specific feeling of desire. 'he got his wish'. 'he was above all wishing and desire'
devotion;feelings of ardent love. 'their devotion to each other was beautiful'
thoughtfulness;a calm lengthy intent consideration
appreciativeness;warm friendly feelings of gratitude
chimera;a grotesque product of the imagination
cross division;classification according to more than one attribute at the same time. 'the cross-classification of cases was done by age and sex'
discrimination;the cognitive process whereby differences between two or more stimuli are perceived
admiration;the feeling aroused by something strange and surprising
bloodlust;a desire for bloodshed
self criticism;criticism of yourself
soothsaying;prophecy by supernatural means
pain;emotional distress. a fundamental feeling that people try to avoid. 'the pain of loneliness'
insecurity;the anxiety you experience when you feel vulnerable and insecure
zeal;a feeling of strong eagerness (usually in favor of a person or cause). 'they were imbued with a revolutionary ardor'. 'he felt a kind of religious zeal'
misogamy;hatred of marriage
togetherness;affectionate closeness
shape constancy;the tendency to perceive the shape of a rigid object as constant despite differences in the viewing angle (and consequent differences in the shape of the pattern projected on the retina of the eye)
ennui;the feeling of being bored by something tedious
straw vote;an unofficial vote taken to determine opinion on some issue
connexion;the process of bringing ideas or events together in memory or imagination. 'conditioning is a form of learning by association'
ruefulness;sadness associated with some wrong done or some disappointment. 'he drank to drown his sorrows'. 'he wrote a note expressing his regret'
pungency;having an acrid smell
foresight;reasoning about the future
unassertiveness;diffidence about self promotion
exasperation;an exasperated feeling of annoyance
panic;an overwhelming feeling of fear and anxiety
self examination;the contemplation of your own thoughts and desires and conduct
revelation;an enlightening or astonishing disclosure
sensation;a general feeling of excitement. 'the announcement caused a sensation'
psychic energy;an actuating force or factor
somatesthesia;the perception of tactual or proprioceptive or gut sensations. 'he relied on somesthesia to warn him of pressure changes'. 'he had a queasy feeling'
crush;temporary love of an adolescent
moral sense;motivation deriving logically from ethical or moral principles that govern a person's thoughts and actions
chorionic villus sampling;a prenatal test to detect birth defects at an early stage of pregnancy. tissue from the chorionic villi is assayed
contradistinction;a distinction drawn on the basis of contrast. 'sculpture in contradistinction to painting'
mental energy;an actuating force or factor
jumpiness;the anxious feeling you have when you have the jitters
rethink;thinking again about a choice previously made. 'he had second thoughts about his purchase'
sympathy;sharing the feelings of others (especially feelings of sorrow or anguish)
keenness;a positive feeling of wanting to push ahead with something
inductive reasoning;reasoning from detailed facts to general principles
representational process;any basic cognitive process in which some entity comes to stand for or represent something else
transport;a state of being carried away by overwhelming emotion: 'listening to sweet music in a perfect rapture'- charles dickens
music;the sounds produced by singers or musical instruments (or reproductions of such sounds)
animus;a feeling of ill will arousing active hostility
disdain;lack of respect accompanied by a feeling of intense dislike
hesitancy;a feeling of diffidence about doing something
edginess;feelings of anxiety that make you tense and irritable
process;"a mental process that you are not directly aware of. 'the process of denial'"
comfortableness;aa feeling of being at ease in a relationship
pruritus vulvae;persistent itching of the external female genitalia
displeasure;the feeling of being displeased or annoyed or dissatisfied with someone or something
happiness;state of well-being characterized by emotions ranging from contentment to intense joy
embarrassment;the shame you feel when your inadequacy or guilt is made public
advisement;careful consideration. 'a little deliberation would have deterred them'
indefinite integral;the set of functions f(x) + c, where c is any real number, such that f(x) is the integral of f(x)
avidity;a positive feeling of wanting to push ahead with something
appraisal;the classification of someone or something with respect to its worth
listlessness;a feeling of lack of interest or energy
self consciousness;embarrassment deriving from the feeling that others are critically aware of you
expectation;the feeling that something is about to happen
identity;collective aspect of the set of characteristics by which a thing is recognizable or known
pick;the person or thing chosen or selected. 'he was my pick for mayor'
policy;a line of argument rationalizing the course of action of a government. 'they debated the policy or impolicy of the proposed legislation'
necromancy;conjuring up the dead, especially for prophesying
calculation;planning something carefully and intentionally. 'it was the deliberation of his act that was insulting'
imperialism;a policy of extending your rule over foreign countries
intimidation;the feeling of discouragement in the face of someone's superior fame or wealth or status etc.
approximation;an approximate calculation of quantity or degree or worth. 'an estimate of what it would cost'. 'a rough idea how long it would take'
impassivity;apathy demonstrated by an absence of emotional reactions
default option;an option that is selected automatically unless an alternative is specified
recognition;coming to understand something by thinking about it. 'a growing realization of the risk involved'. 'a sudden consciousness of the problem he faced'
oversensitiveness;sensitivity leading to easy irritation or upset
skimming;reading or glancing through quickly
acridity;having an acrid smell
belonging;happiness felt in a secure relationship. 'with his classmates he felt a sense of belonging'
undervaluation;too low a value or price assigned to something
demoralization;depression resulting from an undermining of your morale
complacency;the feeling you have when you are satisfied with yourself. 'his complacency was absolutely disgusting'
taste;delicate discrimination (especially of aesthetic values). 'arrogance and lack of taste contributed to his rapid success'. 'to ask at that particular time was the ultimate in bad taste'
plaintiveness;expressing sorrowfulness
reasoning by elimination;analysis of a problem into alternative possibilities followed by the systematic elimination of unacceptable alternatives
repulsion;intense aversion
topognosia;recognition of the location of a stimulus on the skin
blahs;(informal usage) a general feeling of boredom and dissatisfaction
tedium;the feeling of being bored by something tedious
irascibility;a feeling of resentful anger
repose;the absence of mental stress or anxiety
heartburning;intense resentment. 'his promotion caused much heartburning among his rivals'
misogynism;hatred of women
basic cognitive process;cognitive processes involved in obtaining and storing knowledge
timidity;fear of the unknown or unfamiliar and of making decisions
higher cognitive process;cognitive processes that presuppose the availability of knowledge and put it to use
sanguinity;feeling sanguine. optimistically cheerful and confident
seriousness;an earnest and sincere feeling
aggression;a feeling of hostility that arouses thoughts of attack
inattentiveness;a lack of attentiveness (as to children or helpless people)
vanilla;a distinctive fragrant flavor characteristic of vanilla beans
high spirits;a feeling of joy and pride
heavyheartedness;a feeling of dispirited melancholy
vertu;love of or taste for fine objects of art
idea;an approximate calculation of quantity or degree or worth. 'an estimate of what it would cost'. 'a rough idea how long it would take'
jocundity;a feeling facetious merriment
electra complex;a complex of females. sexual attraction to the father
anamnesis;the ability to recall past occurrences
protectionism;the policy of imposing duties or quotas on imports in order to protect home industries from overseas competition
key;something crucial for explaining. 'the key to development is economic integration'
malodour;a distinctive odor that is offensively unpleasant
recall;the ability to recall past occurrences
rational motive;a motive that can be defended by reasoning or logical argument
interpreting;an explanation of something that is not immediately obvious. 'the edict was subject to many interpretations'. 'he annoyed us with his interpreting of parables'
disinclination;that toward which you are inclined to feel dislike. 'his disinclination for modesty is well known'
fetor;a distinctive odor that is offensively unpleasant
erotism;the arousal of feelings of sexual desire
self torture;self-imposed distress
truman doctrine;president truman's policy of providing economic and military aid to any country threatened by communism or totalitarian ideology
amiability;a cheerful and agreeable mood
act;"the performance of some composite cognitive activity. an operation that affects mental contents. 'the process of thinking'. 'the act of remembering'"
woefulness;intense mournfulness
embitterment;the state of being embittered. 'the embitterment that resulted from the loss of his job never left him'
grievance;a resentment strong enough to justify retaliation. 'holding a grudge'. 'settling a score'
tang;the taste experience when a savoury condiment is taken into the mouth
deduction;reasoning from the general to the particular (or from cause to effect)
distress;psychological suffering. 'the death of his wife caused him great distress'
tryout;trying something to find out about it. 'a sample for ten days free trial'. 'a trial of progesterone failed to relieve the pain'
hold;understanding of the nature or meaning or quality or magnitude of something. 'he has a good grasp of accounting practices'
synesthesia;a sensation that normally occurs in one sense modality occurs when another modality is stimulated
lucubration;laborious cogitation
special education;education of physically or mentally handicapped children whose needs cannot be met in an ordinary classroom
omission;passing over something out of neglect
sorrow;sadness associated with some wrong done or some disappointment. 'he drank to drown his sorrows'. 'he wrote a note expressing his regret'
work;applying the mind to learning and understanding a subject (especially by reading). 'mastering a second language requires a lot of work'. 'no schools offer graduate study in interior design'
surprise;the astonishment you feel when something totally unexpected happens to you
reflexion;a calm lengthy intent consideration
suffering;psychological suffering. 'the death of his wife caused him great distress'
nonintervention;a foreign policy of staying out of other countries' disputes
prurience;feeling morbid sexual desire
problem solving;the thought processes involved in solving a problem
yen;a yearning for something or to do something
sentiment;tender, romantic, or nostalgic feeling or emotion
roast;negative criticism
judicial activism;an interpretation of the u.s. constitution holding that the spirit of the times and the needs of the nation can legitimately influence judicial decisions (particularly decisions of the supreme court)
humility;a humble feeling. 'he was filled with humility at the sight of the pope'
preparation;the cognitive process of thinking about what you will do in the event of something happening. 'his planning for retirement was hindered by several uncertainties'
score;a number or letter indicating quality (especially of a student's performance). 'she made good marks in algebra'. 'grade a milk'. 'what was your score on your homework?'
transfer;generalization of a skill learned in one situation to a different but similar situation
trichotillomania;an irresistible urge to pull out your own hair
shame;a painful emotion resulting from an awareness of inadequacy or guilt
tactile sensation;the sensation produced by pressure receptors in the skin. 'she likes the touch of silk on her skin'. 'the surface had a greasy feeling'
misogyny;hatred of women
object recognition;the visual perception of familiar objects
pining;a feeling of deep longing
imperturbableness;calm and unruffled self-assurance. 'he performed with all the coolness of a veteran'
stench;a distinctive odor that is offensively unpleasant
quality of life;your personal satisfaction (or dissatisfaction) with the cultural or intellectual conditions under which you live (as distinct from material comfort). 'the new art museum is expected to improve the quality of life'
antipathy;a feeling of intense dislike
apperception;the process whereby perceived qualities of an object are related to past experience
gaiety;a gay feeling
tenderness;a positive feeling of liking. 'he had trouble expressing the affection he felt'. 'the child won everyone's heart'
cold;the sensation produced by low temperatures. 'he shivered from the colda'. 'the cold helped clear his head'
irrational motive;a motivation that is inconsistent with reason or logic
penis envy;(psychoanalysis) a female's envy of the male's penis. said to explain femininity
savvy;the cognitive condition of someone who understands. 'he has virtually no understanding of social cause and effect'
conscience;a feeling of shame when you do something immoral. 'he has no conscience about his cruelty'
enquiry;a search for knowledge. 'their pottery deserves more research than it has received'
crediting;the attribution of an idea or work to someone else
incorporation;learning (of values or attitudes etc.) that is incorporated within yourself
nostalgia;longing for something past
pathos;a feeling of sympathy and sorrow for the misfortunes of others. 'the blind are too often objects of pity'
pang;sudden sharp painful emotion. 'pangs of regret' or 'twinges of conscience'
integral;the result of a mathematical integration. f(x) is the integral of f(x) if df/dx = f(x)
desire;the feeling that accompanies an unsatisfied state
tenderness;a feeling of concern for the welfare of someone (especially someone defenseless)
cheerlessness;a feeling of dreary or pessimistic sadness
sense of responsibility;an awareness of your obligations
moral force;an efficient incentive. 'they hoped it would act as a spiritual dynamic on all churches'
pretense;an imaginative pretence
self doubt;lack of self-confidence
deduction;something that is inferred (deduced or entailed or implied). 'his resignation had political implications'
sincerity;an earnest and sincere feeling
experimentation;the testing of an idea. 'it was an experiment in living'. 'not all experimentation is done in laboratories'
libidinal energy;(psychoanalysis) psychic energy produced by the libido
color constancy;the tendency for a color to look the same under widely different viewing conditions
paying attention;paying particular notice (as to children or helpless people). 'his attentiveness to her wishes'. 'he spends without heed to the consequences'
face recognition;the visual perception of familiar faces
speech perception;the auditory perception (and comprehension) of speech
solace;the comfort you feel when consoled in times of disappointment. 'second place was no consolation to him'
patch test;a test to determine allergic sensitivity by applying small pads soaked with allergen to the unbroken skin
contentment;happiness with one's situation in life
prophecy;knowledge of the future (usually obtained from a divine source)
disregard;letting pass without notice
bioassay;appraisal of the biological activity of a substance by testing its effect on an organism
ambivalency;mixed feelings or emotions
egomania;an intense and irresistible love for yourself and concern for your own needs
review;a new appraisal or evaluation
lustfulness;a strong sexual desire
brokenheartedness;intense sorrow caused by loss of a loved one (especially by death)
care;an anxious feeling. 'care had aged him'. 'they hushed it up out of fear of public reaction'
flavour;the taste experience when a savoury condiment is taken into the mouth
tickle;a cutaneous sensation often resulting from light stroking
sexual urge;all of the feelings resulting from the urge to gratify sexual impulses. 'he wanted a better sex life'. 'the film contained no sex or violence'
guilt trip;remorse cause by feeling responsible for some offence
possible;something that can be done. 'politics is the art of the possible'
sensitivity;sensitivity to emotional feelings (of self and others)
imperturbability;calm and unruffled self-assurance. 'he performed with all the coolness of a veteran'
perceptivity;a feeling of understanding
heartache;intense sorrow caused by loss of a loved one (especially by death)
individuation;discriminating the individual from the generic group or species
merriment;a gay feeling
indifference;unbiased impartial unconcern
adience;(psychology) an urge to accept or approach a situation or an object
prickling;a pricking somatic sensation
worship;a feeling of profound love and admiration
alternative;an alternative action. 'what option did i have?' or 'there no other alternative' or 'my only choice is to refuse'
chafing;soreness or irritation of the skin caused by friction
generalization;the process of formulating general concepts by abstracting common properties of instances
reassessment;a new appraisal or evaluation
boding;a feeling of evil to come: 'a steadily escalating sense of foreboding'. 'the lawyer had a presentiment that the judge would dismiss the case'
dolour;painful grief. a poetic term
comfort;a feeling of freedom from worry or disappointment
soft spot;a sentimental affection. 'she had a soft spot for her youngest son'
hostility;the feeling of a hostile person. 'he could no longer contain his hostility'
repugnance;intense aversion
wet dream;an erotic dream accompanied by ejaculation
propensity;an inclination to do something. 'he felt leanings toward frivolity'
noise;the auditory experience of sound that lacks musical quality. sound that is a disagreeable auditory experience. 'modern music is just noise to me'
vaticination;knowledge of the future (usually obtained from a divine source)
sexual pleasure;pleasure derived from sexual activities
soulfulness;deep feeling or emotion
enthusiasm;a feeling of excitement
agreement;the thing arranged or agreed to
dissonance;the auditory experience of sound that lacks musical quality. sound that is a disagreeable auditory experience. 'modern music is just noise to me'
caring;a loving feeling
reading;the cognitive process of understanding a written linguistic message. 'he enjoys reading books'
derivative;the result of mathematical differentiation. the instantaneous change of one quantity relative to another. df(x)/dx
guilt pang;pangs of feeling guilty
rumination;a calm lengthy intent consideration
explanation;thought that makes something comprehensible
unhappiness;state characterized by emotions ranging from mild discontentment to deep grief
helplessness;a feeling of being unable to manage
fidgetiness;a feeling of agitation expressed in continual motion. 'he's got the fidgets'. 'waiting gave him a feeling of restlessness'
despising;a feeling of scornful hatred
joy;the emotion of great happiness
overestimation;a calculation that results in an estimate that is too high
withers;sensibility to trouble (as in the phrase 'wring one's withers'). 'the lawsuit was wringing his withers'. 'our withers are unwrung'--shakespeare
moroseness;a gloomy ill-tempered feeling
synthesis;the combination of ideas into a complex whole
study;attentive scrutiny and thought. 'after much cogitation he rejected the offer'
encouragement;the feeling of being encouraged
guesswork;an estimate based on little or no information
gladsomeness;experiencing joy and pleasure
fragrance;a distinctive odor that is pleasant
preference;the right or chance to choose: 'given my druthers, i'd eat cake'
malignity;wishing evil to others
dreaminess;a relaxed comfortable feeling
notice;polite or favorable attention. 'his hard work soon attracted the teacher's notice'
individualization;discriminating the individual from the generic group or species
observation;the act of noticing or paying attention. 'he escaped the notice of the police'
widal s test;a test for detecting typhoid fever and other salmonella infections
reverence;a profound fear inspired by a deity
withdrawal;avoiding emotional involvement
weakness;a penchant for something even though it might not be good for you. 'he has a weakness for chocolate'
deterrence;a negative motivational influence
derived function;the result of mathematical differentiation. the instantaneous change of one quantity relative to another. df(x)/dx
tantrum;a display of bad temper. 'he had a fit'. 'she threw a tantrum'. 'he made a scene'
sapidity;the taste experience when a savoury condiment is taken into the mouth
hysteria;excessive or uncontrollable fear
vocational education;training for a specific vocation in industry or agriculture or trade
rendering;an explanation of something that is not immediately obvious. 'the edict was subject to many interpretations'. 'he annoyed us with his interpreting of parables'
bond rating;an evaluation by a rating company of the probability that a particular bond issue will default. bonds of the highest quality have aaa rating
ceiling;an upper limit on what is allowed: 'they established a cap for prices'
logical thinking;thinking that is coherent and logical
euphoria;a feeling of great (usually exaggerated) elation
lithomancy;divination by means of stones or stone talismans
grasp;understanding of the nature or meaning or quality or magnitude of something. 'he has a good grasp of accounting practices'
school;the process of being formally educated at a school. 'what will you do when you finish school?'
skin sensation;a sensation localized on the skin
rationale;an explanation of the working of some device in terms of laws of nature. 'the principles of internal-combusiton engines'
virtu;love of or taste for fine objects of art
wasserman reaction;a blood test to detect syphilis. a complement fixation test is used to detect antibodies to the syphilis organism treponema. a positive reaction indicates the presence of antibodies and therefore syphilis infection
misery;a feeling of intense unhappiness. 'she was exhausted by her misery and grief'
disregard;lack of attention and due care
passion;strong feeling or emotion
topognosis;recognition of the location of a stimulus on the skin
breakdown;an analysis into mutually exclusive categories
evaluation;an appraisal of the value of something
fundamental frequency;the lowest tone of a harmonic series
inner light;a divine presence believed by quakers to enlighten and guide the soul
glee;great merriment
signal;any incitement to action. 'he awaited the signal to start'. 'the victory was a signal for wild celebration'
wish;a specific feeling of desire. 'he got his wish'. 'he was above all wishing and desire'
weighing;careful consideration. 'a little deliberation would have deterred them'
estrangement;the feeling of being alienated from other people
somberness;a feeling of melancholy apprehension
tendency;an inclination to do something. 'he felt leanings toward frivolity'
elation;a feeling of joy and pride
extinction;a learning process in which the reinforcer is removed and a conditioned response becomes independent of the conditioned stimulus
detection;the perception that something has occurred or some state exists. 'early detection can often lead to a cure'
adoration;a feeling of profound love and admiration
distress;a strong feeling of anxiety. 'his distress as the prospect of being fired'. 'it is not work but worry that kills'. 'he wanted to die and end his troubles'
bad temper;a persisting angry mood
bitterness;the taste experience when quinine or coffee is taken into the mouth
mortification;strong feelings of embarrassment
threshold;the smallest detectable sensation
favorite;something regarded with special favor or liking. 'that book is one of my favorites'
mirthfulness;great merriment
flush;the release of a store of affective force. 'they got a great bang out of it'. 'what a rush!'. 'he does it for kicks'
pique;a sudden outburst of anger. 'his temper sparked like damp firewood'
attentiveness;paying particular notice (as to children or helpless people). 'his attentiveness to her wishes'. 'he spends without heed to the consequences'
torture;extreme mental distress
passion;an irrational but irresistible motive for a belief or action
connection;the process of bringing ideas or events together in memory or imagination. 'conditioning is a form of learning by association'
quietness;a state of peace and quiet
appreciation;understanding of the nature or meaning or quality or magnitude of something. 'he has a good grasp of accounting practices'
valuation;an appraisal of the value of something
discontentment;a longing for something better than the present situation
argumentation;methodical reasoning. 'i can't follow your line of reasoning'
appetite;a feeling of craving something. 'an appetite for life'. 'the object of life is to satisfy as many appetencies as possible'- granville hicks
sheepishness;feeling embarrassed about yourself
wonderment;the feeling aroused by something strange and surprising
remembrance;the ability to recall past occurrences
rancour;a feeling of deep and bitter anger and ill-will
stomach;an appetite for food. 'exercise gave him a good stomach for dinner'
depression;sad feelings of gloom and inadequacy
implication;something that is inferred (deduced or entailed or implied). 'his resignation had political implications'
cull;the person or thing rejected or set aside as inferior in quality
fondness;a positive feeling of liking. 'he had trouble expressing the affection he felt'. 'the child won everyone's heart'
operation;"the performance of some composite cognitive activity. an operation that affects mental contents. 'the process of thinking'. 'the act of remembering'"
music of the spheres;an inaudible music that pythagoras thought was produced by the celestial
awareness;having knowledge of. 'he had no awareness of his mistakes'. 'his sudden consciousness of the problem he faced'. 'their intelligence and general knowingness was impressive'
hedonism;the pursuit of pleasure as a matter of ethical principle
factorization;(mathematics) the resolution of an integer or polynomial into factors such that when multiplied together they give the integer or polynomial
humbleness;a humble feeling. 'he was filled with humility at the sight of the pope'
security;freedom from anxiety or fear. 'the watch dog gave her a feeling of security'
feeling;"the psychological feature of experiencing affective and emotional states. 'he had a feeling of euphoria'"
obverse;the more conspicuous of two alternatives or cases or sides: 'the obverse of this issue'
uneasiness;embarrassment deriving from the feeling that others are critically aware of you
stress test;a test measuring how the system functions when subjected to controlled amounts of stress
feeling;the perception of tactual or proprioceptive or gut sensations. 'he relied on somesthesia to warn him of pressure changes'. 'he had a queasy feeling'
auditory sensation;the subjective sensation of hearing something. 'he strained to hear the faint sounds'
flip flop;a decision to reverse an earlier decision
isolation;a feeling of being disliked and alone
fidget;a feeling of agitation expressed in continual motion. 'he's got the fidgets'. 'waiting gave him a feeling of restlessness'
pruritus;an intense itching sensation that can have various causes (as by allergies or infection or lymphoma or jaundice etc.)
divination;prophecy by supernatural means
twinge;a sharp stab of pain
white noise;a 'sh' noise produced by a stimulus containing all audible frequencies of vibration
tearfulness;sadness expressed by weeping
reflection;a calm lengthy intent consideration
anglophobia;exaggerated dislike of england and english customs
corollary;(logic) an inference that follows directly from the proof of another proposition
elimination;analysis of a problem into alternative possibilities followed by the systematic elimination of unacceptable alternatives
rush;the release of a store of affective force. 'they got a great bang out of it'. 'what a rush!'. 'he does it for kicks'
retrovision;a vision of events in the distant past
grudge;a resentment strong enough to justify retaliation. 'holding a grudge'. 'settling a score'
fulfillment;a feeling of satisfaction at having achieved your desires
agony;intense feelings of suffering. acute mental or physical pain. 'an agony of doubt'. 'the torments of the damned'
open door policy;the policy of granting equal trade opportunities to all countries
sense of shame;a motivating awareness of ethical responsibility
retrospection;memory for experiences that are past. 'some psychologists tried to contrast retrospection and introspection'
vagary;a sudden desire. 'he bought it on impulse'
feel;an intuitive awareness. 'he has a feel for animals' or 'it's easy when you get the feel of it'
overreckoning;a calculation that results in an estimate that is too high
agitation;the feeling of being agitated. not calm
heartbreak;intense sorrow caused by loss of a loved one (especially by death)
delight;a feeling of extreme pleasure or satisfaction. 'his delight to see her was obvious to all'
lightheartedness;the cheerful feeling you have when nothing is troubling you
euphony;any agreeable (pleasing and harmonious) sounds. 'he fell asleep to the music of the wind chimes'
anglophilia;exaggerated admiration for england and english customs
contriteness;sorrow for sin arising from fear of damnation
ear;attention to what is said. 'he tried to get her ear'
incense;the pleasing scent produced when incense is burned. 'incense filled the room'
mind s eye;the imaging of remembered or invented scenes. 'i could see her clearly in my mind's eye'
taste;the sensation that results when taste buds in the tongue and throat convey information about the chemical composition of a soluble stimulus. 'the candy left him with a bad taste'. 'the melon had a delicious taste'
estimate;an approximate calculation of quantity or degree or worth. 'an estimate of what it would cost'. 'a rough idea how long it would take'
fearfulness;an emotion experienced in anticipation of some specific pain or danger (usually accompanied by a desire to flee or fight)
voice of conscience;an inner voice that judges your behavior
timidness;fear of the unknown or unfamiliar and of making decisions
control;the economic policy of controlling or limiting or curbing prices or wages etc.. 'they wanted to repeal all the legislation that imposed economic controls'
scruple;uneasiness about the fitness of an action
incentive;a positive motivational influence
self disgust;shame resulting from strong dislike of yourself or your actions
boredom;the feeling of being bored by something tedious
amicableness;a disinclination to quarrel
overrating;a calculation that results in an estimate that is too high
fretfulness;an irritable petulant feeling
meekness;the feeling of patient submissive humbleness
complement fixation test;a blood test in which a sample of serum is exposed to a particular antigen and complement in order to determine whether or not antibodies to that particular antigen are present. used as a diagnostic test
detachment;avoiding emotional involvement
induction;reasoning from detailed facts to general principles
sense experience;an unelaborated elementary awareness of stimulation. 'a sensation of touch'
protectiveness;a feeling of protective affection
amusement;a feeling of delight at being entertained
amorousness;the arousal of feelings of sexual desire
guesstimate;an estimate that combines reasoning with guessing
gloat;malicious satisfaction
base;a lower limit: 'the government established a wage floor'
distaste;a feeling of intense dislike
subcutaneous test;a form of skin test in which the suspected allergen is injected into the skin
small voice;an inner voice that judges your behavior
attachment;a feeling of affection for a person or an institution
optical fusion;the combining of images from the two eyes to form a single visual percept
collusion;secret agreement
unfriendliness;dislike experienced as an absence of friendliness
first harmonic;the lowest tone of a harmonic series
rote;memorization by repetition
despondence;feeling downcast and disheartened and hopeless
musical perception;the auditory perception of musical sounds
cognitive operation;"the performance of some composite cognitive activity. an operation that affects mental contents. 'the process of thinking'. 'the act of remembering'"
irritability;an irritable petulant feeling
peacefulness;the absence of mental stress or anxiety
ambition;a cherished desire. 'his ambition is to own his own business'
confusion;a feeling of embarrassment that leaves you confused
dolor;painful grief. a poetic term
mastering;becoming proficient in the use of something. having mastery of. 'his mastering the art of cooking took a long time'
systems analysis;analysis of all aspects of a project along with ways to collect information about the operation of its parts
gratefulness;warm friendly feelings of gratitude
music;any agreeable (pleasing and harmonious) sounds. 'he fell asleep to the music of the wind chimes'
recollection;the ability to recall past occurrences
fulfilment;a feeling of satisfaction at having achieved your desires
rapture;a state of being carried away by overwhelming emotion: 'listening to sweet music in a perfect rapture'- charles dickens
realization;coming to understand something by thinking about it. 'a growing realization of the risk involved'. 'a sudden consciousness of the problem he faced'
underrating;a calculation that results in an estimate that is too low
hobson s choice;the choice of taking what is offered or nothing at all
aspiration;a cherished desire. 'his ambition is to own his own business'
trade stoppage;a government order imposing a trade barrier
cult;an interest followed with exaggerated zeal: 'he always follows the latest fads'. 'it was all the rage that season'
stm;what you can repeat immediately after perceiving it
developmental learning;learning that takes place as a normal part of cognitive development
envy;a feeling of grudging admiration and desire to have something possessed by another
serenity;the absence of mental stress or anxiety
rationalisation;the cognitive process of making something seem consistent with or based on reason
sorrow;the state of being sad. 'she tired of his perpetual sadness'
fearlessness;feeling no fear
solacement;the comfort you feel when consoled in times of disappointment. 'second place was no consolation to him'
pyromania;a desire to set fire to things
compulsion;an irrational motive for performing trivial or repetitive actions against your will
ardor;feelings of great warmth and intensity. 'he spoke with great ardor'
alleviation;the feeling that comes when something burdensome is removed or reduced. 'as he heard the news he was suddenly flooded with relief'
disquiet;a feeling of mild anxiety about possible developments
fury;a feeling of intense anger. 'hell hath no fury like a woman scorned'. 'his face turned red with rage'
revulsion;intense aversion
regard;a feeling of friendship and esteem. 'she mistook his manly regard for love'. 'he inspires respect'
construction;the creation of a construct. the process of combining ideas into a congruous object of thought
hesitance;a feeling of diffidence about doing something
pruritus ani;chronic itching of the skin around the anus
rapport;a feeling of sympathetic understanding
coldheartedness;an absence of concern for the welfare of others
penance;remorse for your past conduct
self reproach;a feeling of deep regret (usually for some misdeed)
sentimentality;extravagant or affected feeling or emotion
placidity;a feeling of calmness. a quiet and undisturbed feeling
savour;the taste experience when a savoury condiment is taken into the mouth
humor;a characteristic (habitual or relatively temporary) state of feeling. 'whether he praised or cursed me depended on his temper at the time'. 'he was in a bad humor'
suspense;apprehension about what is going to happen
hopefulness;the feeling you have when you have hope
reject;the person or thing rejected or set aside as inferior in quality
research;a search for knowledge. 'their pottery deserves more research than it has received'
afterthought;thinking again about a choice previously made. 'he had second thoughts about his purchase'
tranquillity;a state of peace and quiet
acidity;the taste experience when something acidic is taken into the mouth
conjecture;reasoning that involves the formation of conclusions from incomplete evidence
line of thought;a particular way of thinking that is characteristic of some individual or group
brightness constancy;the tendency for a visual object to be perceived as having the same brightness under widely different conditions of illumination
ruthfulness;a state of gloomy sorrow
trade barrier;any regulation or policy that restricts international trade
tine test;a tuberculin test in which a disk with several times bearing tuberculin antigen is used to puncture the skin. development of a hard red area indicates past or present exposure to tubercle bacilli and the need for further testing
extrapolation;(mathematics) calculation of the value of a function outside the range of known values
sexiness;the arousal of feelings of sexual desire
abience;(psychology) an urge to withdraw or avoid a situation or an object
anger;a strong emotion. a feeling that is oriented toward some real or supposed grievance
embarrassment;the state of being embarrassed (usually by some financial inadequacy). 'he is currently suffering financial embarrassments'
tone;a steady sound without overtones. 'they tested his hearing with pure tones of different frequencies'
olfactory sensation;the sensation that results when olfactory receptors in the nose are stimulated by particular chemicals in gaseous form. 'she loved the smell of roses'
reek;a distinctive odor that is offensively unpleasant
noninterference;a foreign policy of staying out of other countries' disputes
infatuation;temporary love of an adolescent
thought;the process of thinking (especially thinking carefully). 'thinking always made him frown'. 'she paused for thought'
casuistry;argumentation that is specious or excessively subtle and intended to be misleading
exultation;a feeling of extreme joy
cer;an emotional response that has been acquired by conditioning
motivation;"the psychological feature that arouses an organism to action. the reason for the action. 'we did not understand his motivation'. 'he acted with the best of motives'"
gloom;a feeling of melancholy apprehension
rendition;an explanation of something that is not immediately obvious. 'the edict was subject to many interpretations'. 'he annoyed us with his interpreting of parables'
longing;prolonged unfulfilled desire or need
lemon;a distinctive tart flavor characteristic of lemons
association;the process of bringing ideas or events together in memory or imagination. 'conditioning is a form of learning by association'
cutaneous sensation;a sensation localized on the skin
heraldry;the study and classification of armorial bearings and the tracing of genealogies
admiration;a feeling of delighted approval and liking
zest;vigorous and enthusiastic enjoyment
loyalty;feelings of allegiance
partitioning;an analysis into mutually exclusive categories
chorionic villus biopsy;a prenatal test to detect birth defects at an early stage of pregnancy. tissue from the chorionic villi is assayed
unemotionality;apathy demonstrated by an absence of emotional reactions
premeditation;planning or plotting in advance of acting
maleficence;doing or causing evil
reasoning;thinking that is coherent and logical
instrumental conditioning;conditioning that pairs a response with a reinforcement
morals;motivation based on ideas of right and wrong
quick temper;a feeling of resentful anger
test;trying something to find out about it. 'a sample for ten days free trial'. 'a trial of progesterone failed to relieve the pain'
immediate memory;what you can repeat immediately after perceiving it
vocational training;training for a specific vocation in industry or agriculture or trade
ltm;your general store of remembered information
life;a motive for living. 'pottery was his life'
self importance;an inflated feeling of pride in your superiority to others
regard;paying particular notice (as to children or helpless people). 'his attentiveness to her wishes'. 'he spends without heed to the consequences'
choice;an alternative action. 'what option did i have?' or 'there no other alternative' or 'my only choice is to refuse'
touch;the sensation produced by pressure receptors in the skin. 'she likes the touch of silk on her skin'. 'the surface had a greasy feeling'
realisation;coming to understand something by thinking about it. 'a growing realization of the risk involved'. 'a sudden consciousness of the problem he faced'
pity;a feeling of sympathy and sorrow for the misfortunes of others. 'the blind are too often objects of pity'
foetor;a distinctive odor that is offensively unpleasant
acidulousness;the taste experience when something acidic is taken into the mouth
soul;deep feeling or emotion
motive;"the psychological feature that arouses an organism to action. the reason for the action. 'we did not understand his motivation'. 'he acted with the best of motives'"
brotherhood;the feeling that men should treat one another like brothers
gall;a feeling of deep and bitter anger and ill-will
snellen test;a test of visual acuity using a snellen chart
murderousness;a bloodthirsty hatred arousing murderous impulses
inclination;that toward which you are inclined to feel a liking. 'her inclination is for classical music'
blitheness;a feeling of spontaneous good spirits. 'his cheerfulness made everyone feel better'
trade policy;a government's policy controlling foreign trade
dander;a feeling of anger and animosity. 'having one's hackles or dander up'
worry;a strong feeling of anxiety. 'his distress as the prospect of being fired'. 'it is not work but worry that kills'. 'he wanted to die and end his troubles'
mirth;great merriment
thread;the connections that link the various parts of an event or argument together. 'i couldn't follow his train of thought'. 'he lost the thread of his argument'
esteem;a feeling of delighted approval and liking
brinkmanship;the policy of pushing a dangerous situation to the brink of disaster (to the limits of safety)
conditioned emotional response;an emotional response that has been acquired by conditioning
skin test;any test to determine immunity or sensitivity to a disease by introducing small amounts on or into the skin
premonition;a feeling of evil to come: 'a steadily escalating sense of foreboding'. 'the lawyer had a presentiment that the judge would dismiss the case'
mind;recall or remembrance. 'it came to mind'
solicitude;a feeling of excessive concern
titillation;an aroused excitement (as from teasing)
smugness;an excessive feeling of self-satisfaction
occasion;reason. 'there was no occasion for complaint'
qualm;uneasiness about the fitness of an action
deductive reasoning;reasoning from the general to the particular (or from cause to effect)
diffidence;lack of self-confidence
flavor;the taste experience when a savoury condiment is taken into the mouth
beholding;perception by means of the eyes
hankering;a yearning for something or to do something
critique;a serious examination and judgment of something. 'constructive criticism is always appreciated'
inquiry;a search for knowledge. 'their pottery deserves more research than it has received'
default;an option that is selected automatically unless an alternative is specified
field trial;a test to display the performance of some new product
low spiritedness;a feeling of lowness of spirits
favourite;something regarded with special favor or liking. 'that book is one of my favorites'
agglutination test;a blood test used to identify unknown antigens. blood with the unknown antigen is mixed with a known antibody and whether or not agglutination occurs helps to identify the antigen. used in tissue matching and blood grouping and diagnosis of infections
assessment;the classification of someone or something with respect to its worth
choler;an irritable petulant feeling
warmth;the sensation caused by heat energy
culture;the tastes in art and manners that are favored by a social group
tuberculin test;a skin test to determine past or present infection with the tuberculosis bacterium. based on hypersensitivity of the skin to tuberculin
bitter;the taste experience when quinine or coffee is taken into the mouth
want;a specific feeling of desire. 'he got his wish'. 'he was above all wishing and desire'
scruples;motivation deriving logically from ethical or moral principles that govern a person's thoughts and actions
feeling of identity;the attribution to yourself of the characteristics of others. 'his identification with his father shaped his entire life'
sense datum;an unelaborated elementary awareness of stimulation. 'a sensation of touch'
amativeness;the arousal of feelings of sexual desire
typification;a representational form or model
gnosis;intuitive knowledge of spiritual truths. said to have been possessed by ancient gnostics
torment;a feeling of intense annoyance caused by being tormented. 'so great was his harassment that he wanted to destroy his tormentors'
decision making;the cognitive process of reaching a decision. 'a good executive must be good at decision making'
fundamental;the lowest tone of a harmonic series
social action;a policy of socioeconomic reform
umbrage;a feeling of anger caused by an offence. 'give or take umbrage or offense'
resolution;analysis into clear-cut components
nightmare;a terrifying or deeply upsetting dream
derivation;a line of reasoning that shows how a conclusion follows logically from accepted propositions
liking;a feeling of pleasure and enjoyment. 'i've always had a liking for reading'. 'she developed a liking for gin'
entailment;something that is inferred (deduced or entailed or implied). 'his resignation had political implications'
affect;the conscious subjective aspect of feeling or emotion
speed reading;reading at speeds significantly faster than normal
outrage;a feeling of righteous anger
difference limen;the smallest change in stimulation that a person can detect
good temper;a cheerful and agreeable mood
sinking;a feeling caused by uneasiness or apprehension. 'with a sinking heart'. 'a sinking feeling in the pit of my stomach'
eclecticism;making decisions on the basis of what seems best instead of following some single doctrine or style
remembering;the cognitive processes whereby past experience is remembered. 'he can do it from memory'. 'he enjoyed remembering his father'
disquietude;feelings of anxiety that make you tense and irritable
apprehension;fearful expectation or anticipation: 'the student looked around the examination room with apprehension'
sugariness;the taste experience when sugar dissolves in the mouth
tuberculin skin test;a skin test to determine past or present infection with the tuberculosis bacterium. based on hypersensitivity of the skin to tuberculin
poll;an inquiry into public opinion conducted by interviewing a random sample of people
pleasantness;the feeling caused by agreeable stimuli. one pole of a continuum of states of feeling
ire;a strong emotion. a feeling that is oriented toward some real or supposed grievance
perusal;reading carefully with intent to remember
schooling;the process of being formally educated at a school. 'what will you do when you finish school?'
sensualism;desire for sensual pleasures
planning;the cognitive process of thinking about what you will do in the event of something happening. 'his planning for retirement was hindered by several uncertainties'
sulk;a mood or display of sullen aloofness or withdrawal: 'stayed home in a sulk'
pall;a sudden numbing dread
reevaluation;the evaluation of something a second time (or more)
conflict;opposition between two simultaneous but incompatible feelings. 'he was immobilized by conflict and indecision'
discomfiture;anxious embarrassment
necrophilia;an irresistible sexual attraction to dead bodies
panic attack;a sudden attack of fear
torment;intense feelings of suffering. acute mental or physical pain. 'an agony of doubt'. 'the torments of the damned'
leaning;an inclination to do something. 'he felt leanings toward frivolity'
cathexis;(psychoanalysis) the libidinal energy invested in some idea or person or object. 'freud thought of cathexis as a psychic analog of an electrical charge'
hero worship;admiration for great men (or their memory)
fashion;the latest and most admired style in clothes and cosmetics and behavior
language;the cognitive processes involved in producing and understanding linguistic communication. 'he didn't have the language to express his feelings'
eagerness;a positive feeling of wanting to push ahead with something
velleity;a mere wish, unaccompanied by effort to obtain
disconcertion;anxious embarrassment
anxiety;a vague unpleasant emotion that is experienced in anticipation of some (usually ill-defined) misfortune
self love;feelings of excessive pride
assault;turning your attention to a problem or a job etc.. 'his attack on the problem was misguided'. 'he did not make a direct assault on her affections'
haptic sensation;a sensation localized on the skin
veneration;a profound fear inspired by a deity
emotionlessness;apathy demonstrated by an absence of emotional reactions
irritation;a sudden outburst of anger. 'his temper sparked like damp firewood'
aroma;a distinctive odor that is pleasant
ill humor;an angry and disagreeable mood
gloominess;a feeling of melancholy apprehension
rage;an interest followed with exaggerated zeal: 'he always follows the latest fads'. 'it was all the rage that season'
satisfaction;the contentment you feel when you have done something right. 'the chef tasted the sauce with great satisfaction'
intradermal test;a form of skin test in which the suspected allergen is injected into the skin
zestfulness;vigorous and enthusiastic enjoyment
tetchiness;feeling easily irritated
shamefacedness;feeling embarrassed about yourself
mentation;the process of thinking (especially thinking carefully). 'thinking always made him frown'. 'she paused for thought'
crystal gazing;staring into a crystal ball to arouse visions of future or distant events
kleptomania;an irresistible impulse to steal in the absence of any economic motive
synthesis;reasoning from the general to the particular (or from cause to effect)
score;grounds. 'don't do it on my account'. 'the paper was rejected on acount of its length'. 'he tried to blame the victim but his success on that score was doubtful'
stage fright;fear that affects a person about to face an audience
misoneism;hatred of change or innovation
ecstasy;a state of being carried away by overwhelming emotion: 'listening to sweet music in a perfect rapture'- charles dickens
estimation;an approximate calculation of quantity or degree or worth. 'an estimate of what it would cost'. 'a rough idea how long it would take'
knowingness;having knowledge of. 'he had no awareness of his mistakes'. 'his sudden consciousness of the problem he faced'. 'their intelligence and general knowingness was impressive'
tingle;an almost pleasurable sensation of fright. 'a frisson of surprise shot through him'
weight;an oppressive feeling of heavy force. 'bowed down by the weight of responsibility'
probe;an inquiry into unfamiliar or questionable activities. 'there was a congressional probe into the scandal'
eye;attention to what is seen. 'he tried to catch her eye'
deciding;the cognitive process of reaching a decision. 'a good executive must be good at decision making'
compassionateness;a deep awareness of and sympathy for another's suffering
wildness;extreme emotional intensity. 'the wildness of his anger'
downheartedness;a feeling of lowness of spirits
ambivalence;mixed feelings or emotions
examen;a critical study (as of a writer's work)
coldness;the sensation produced by low temperatures. 'he shivered from the colda'. 'the cold helped clear his head'
categorization;the basic cognitive process of arranging into classes or categories
glee;malicious satisfaction
underevaluation;an appraisal that underestimates the value of something
disheartenment;the feeling of despair in the face of obstacles
throes;violent pangs of suffering. 'death throes'
moodiness;a sullen gloomy feeling
provision;the cognitive process of thinking about what you will do in the event of something happening. 'his planning for retirement was hindered by several uncertainties'
phlegm;apathy demonstrated by an absence of emotional reactions
compassion;a deep awareness of and sympathy for another's suffering
discontent;a longing for something better than the present situation
computation;problem solving that involves numbers or quantities
prejudgment;a judgment reached before the evidence is available
assimilation;in the theories of jean piaget: the application of a general schema to a particular instance
insight;grasping the inner nature of things intuitively
supposal;the cognitive process of supposing
gusto;vigorous and enthusiastic enjoyment
depicting;a representation by picture or portraiture
notice;the act of noticing or paying attention. 'he escaped the notice of the police'
omphaloskepsis;contemplation of one's navel
weepiness;sadness expressed by weeping
closeness;a feeling of being intimate and belonging together. 'their closeness grew as the night wore on'
delectation;a feeling of extreme pleasure or satisfaction. 'his delight to see her was obvious to all'
thing;a persistent illogical feeling of desire or aversion: 'he has a thing about seafood'. 'she has a thing about him'
pins and needles;a sharp tingling sensation from lack of circulation
critical analysis;an appraisal based on careful analytical evaluation
ground;a rational motive for a belief or action. 'the reason that war was declared'. 'the grounds for their declaration'
dipsomania;an intense persistent desire to drink alcoholic beverages to excess
contempt;lack of respect accompanied by a feeling of intense dislike
limen;the smallest detectable sensation
blue devils;a fit of despondency
sense impression;an unelaborated elementary awareness of stimulation. 'a sensation of touch'
trial balloon;a test of public opinion
fad;an interest followed with exaggerated zeal: 'he always follows the latest fads'. 'it was all the rage that season'
new deal;the economic policy of f. d. roosevelt
disapproval;a feeling of disliking something or what someone is doing
line of reasoning;methodical reasoning. 'i can't follow your line of reasoning'
recognition;the process of recognizing something or someone by remembering
tumult;violent agitation
phaneromania;an irresistible desire to pick a superficial body parts (as in obsessive nail-biting)
shock;a sudden state of violent emotional disturbance. 'the shock of his mother's death'
wistfulness;a sadly pensive longing
calculation;problem solving that involves numbers or quantities
pain;a somatic sensation of acute discomfort. 'as the intensity increased the sensation changed from tickle to pain'
brainstorm;the clear (and often sudden) understanding of a complex situation
semantic memory;your memory for meanings and general (impersonal) facts
externalization;attributing to outside causes
homesickness;a longing to return home
lovesickness;a pining for a loved one
prearrangement;an arrangement in advance
judgement;the cognitive process of reaching a decision or drawing conclusions
agromania;an intense desire to be alone or out in the open
examen;examination of conscience (as done daily by jesuits)
exemplification;a representational form or model
mantoux test;tuberculin (a derivative of tubercle bacillus) is injected intradermally. a red area appearing 1-3 days later signifies an exposure (past or present) to tubercle bacilli and the need for further testing
disaffection;the feeling of being alienated from other people
cheerfulness;a feeling of spontaneous good spirits. 'his cheerfulness made everyone feel better'
underestimation;a calculation that results in an estimate that is too low
gladfulness;experiencing joy and pleasure
fortune telling;prophecy by supernatural means
manifest destiny;a policy of imperialism rationalized as inevitable (as if granted by god)
bashfulness;feeling embarrassed due to modesty
wonder;the feeling aroused by something strange and surprising
shot;an estimate based on little or no information
introspection;the contemplation of your own thoughts and desires and conduct
gravity;a solemn and dignified feeling
logical argument;methodical reasoning. 'i can't follow your line of reasoning'
hurt;feelings of mental or physical pain
alcoholism;an intense persistent desire to drink alcoholic beverages to excess
rationalization;the cognitive process of making something seem consistent with or based on reason
abstract thought;thinking that is coherent and logical
necrophilism;an irresistible sexual attraction to dead bodies
temper;a characteristic (habitual or relatively temporary) state of feeling. 'whether he praised or cursed me depended on his temper at the time'. 'he was in a bad humor'
open door;the policy of granting equal trade opportunities to all countries
hate;the emotion of hate. a feeling of dislike so strong that it demands action
foreshadowing;providing advance indications
love;a deep feeling of sexual desire and attraction. 'their love left them indifferent to their surroundings'. 'she was his first love'
hope;the general feeling that some desire will be fulfilled. 'in spite of his troubles he never gave up hope'
ataraxis;the absence of mental stress or anxiety
joylessness;a feeling of dismal cheerlessness
vexation;anger produced by some annoying irritation
venom;feeling a need to see other suffer
cap;an upper limit on what is allowed: 'they established a cap for prices'
pride;a feeling of self-respect and personal worth
light within;a divine presence believed by quakers to enlighten and guide the soul
satisfaction;state of being gratified. great satisfaction: 'dull repetitious work gives no gratification'. 'to my immense gratification he arrived on time'
self distrust;lack of self-confidence
bandwagon;a popular trend that attracts growing support. 'when they saw how things were going everybody jumped on the bandwagon'
gustatory perception;the sensation that results when taste buds in the tongue and throat convey information about the chemical composition of a soluble stimulus. 'the candy left him with a bad taste'. 'the melon had a delicious taste'
lovingness;a loving feeling
long term memory;your general store of remembered information
synthetic thinking;the combination of ideas into a complex whole
earnestness;an earnest and sincere feeling
irrational impulse;a strong spontaneous and irrational motivation. 'his first impulse was to denounce them'. 'the urge to find out got him into trouble'
defeatism;acceptance of the inevitability of defeat
mourning;state of sorrow over the death or departure of a loved one
symbolizing;something visible that by association or convention represents something else that is invisible. 'the eagle is a symbol of the united states'
typifying;a representational form or model
contemplation;a calm lengthy intent consideration
bathos;insincere pathos
afterglow;the pleasure of remembering some pleasant event. 'he basked in the afterglow of his victory'
differential limen;the smallest change in stimulation that a person can detect
caprice;a sudden desire. 'he bought it on impulse'
assay;an appraisal of the state of affairs. 'they made an assay of the contents'. 'a check on its dependability under stress'
sensualness;desire for sensual pleasures
excogitation;thinking something out with care in order to achieve complete understanding of it
abstraction;the process of formulating general concepts by abstracting common properties of instances
salinity;the taste experience when salt is taken into the mouth
sullenness;a gloomy ill-tempered feeling
tingling;a pricking somatic sensation
relaxation;a state of refreshing tranquility
gaiety;a festive merry feeling
underreckoning;a calculation that results in an estimate that is too low
distraction;an obstacle to attention
heed;paying particular notice (as to children or helpless people). 'his attentiveness to her wishes'. 'he spends without heed to the consequences'
trouble;a strong feeling of anxiety. 'his distress as the prospect of being fired'. 'it is not work but worry that kills'. 'he wanted to die and end his troubles'
anthropomorphism;the representation of objects (especially a god) as having human form or traits
self esteem;a feeling of pride in yourself
choice;the person or thing chosen or selected. 'he was my pick for mayor'
enjoyment;the pleasure felt when having a good time
think;(informal) an instance of deliberate thinking: 'i need to give it a good think'
account;grounds. 'don't do it on my account'. 'the paper was rejected on acount of its length'. 'he tried to blame the victim but his success on that score was doubtful'
odor;the sensation that results when olfactory receptors in the nose are stimulated by particular chemicals in gaseous form. 'she loved the smell of roses'
awe;a profound fear inspired by a deity
pap test;a method of examining stained cells in a cervical smear for early diagnosis of uterine cancer
horror;intense and profound fear
ardour;intense feeling of love
biopsy;examination of tissues or liquids from the living body to determine the existence or cause of a disease
nervousness;the anxious feeling you have when you have the jitters
interference;a policy of intervening in the affairs of other countries
self pride;a feeling of pride in yourself
deliberation;planning something carefully and intentionally. 'it was the deliberation of his act that was insulting'
incitement;a means of arousing or stirring to action
anaphrodisia;decline or absence of sexual desire
self torment;self-imposed distress
foreign policy;a policy governing international relations
assimilation;the process of assimilating new ideas into an existing cognitive structure
muscle memory;your memory for motor skills
fussiness;an irritable petulant feeling
bright side;a consoling aspect of a difficult situation. 'every cloud has a silver lining' or 'look on the bright side of it'
ken;range of what one can know or understand
light;mental understanding as an enlightening experience. 'he finally saw the light'. 'can you shed light on this problem?'
guilt feelings;remorse cause by feeling responsible for some offence
envisioning;visual imagery
buoyancy;cheerfulness that bubbles to the surface
imputation;the attribution to a source or cause. 'the imputation that my success was due to nepotism meant that i was not taken seriously'
superego;(psychoanalysis) that part of the unconscious mind that acts as a conscience
test;an appraisal of the state of affairs. 'they made an assay of the contents'. 'a check on its dependability under stress'
self contemplation;the contemplation of your own thoughts and desires and conduct
word splitting;making too fine distinctions of little importance. 'they didn't take his hairsplitting seriously'
amorousness;a feeling of sexual love
sadness;emotions experienced when not in a state of well-being
prediction;reasoning about the future
prognostication;knowledge of the future (usually obtained from a divine source)
perception;the process of perceiving
studying;reading carefully with intent to remember
reconsideration;thinking again about a choice previously made. 'he had second thoughts about his purchase'
guestimate;an estimate that combines reasoning with guessing
sadness;the state of being sad. 'she tired of his perpetual sadness'
solicitousness;a feeling of excessive concern
sensitiveness;sensitivity to emotional feelings (of self and others)
captivation;a feeling of great liking for something wonderful and unusual
score;a resentment strong enough to justify retaliation. 'holding a grudge'. 'settling a score'
quiver;an almost pleasurable sensation of fright. 'a frisson of surprise shot through him'
choler;a strong emotion. a feeling that is oriented toward some real or supposed grievance
prevision;a prophetic vision (as in a dream)
forlornness;sadness resulting from being forsaken or abandoned
ascription;assigning to a cause or source
discomposure;anxious embarrassment
dudgeon;a feeling of intense indignation (now used only in the phrase 'in high dudgeon')
approbation;official approval
raison d etre;reason for being
sorrowfulness;a state of gloomy sorrow
intimacy;a feeling of being intimate and belonging together. 'their closeness grew as the night wore on'
obsession;an irrational motive for performing trivial or repetitive actions against your will
suffering;feelings of mental or physical pain
pride;satisfaction with your (or another's) achievements. 'he takes pride in his son's success'
guilt;remorse cause by feeling responsible for some offence
discombobulation;a feeling of embarrassment that leaves you confused
placidness;a feeling of calmness. a quiet and undisturbed feeling
discontentedness;a longing for something better than the present situation
surrender;acceptance of despair
dick test;a skin test to determine your susceptibility to scarlet fever
mental anguish;sustained dull painful emotion
insight;a feeling of understanding
intuition;instinctive knowing (without the use of rational processes)
self cultivation;the process of educating yourself
anxiousness;a feeling of mild anxiety about possible developments
irritation;an uncomfortable feeling in some part of the body
pretermission;letting pass without notice
sense;a general conscious awareness. 'a sense of security'. 'a sense of happiness'. 'a sense of danger'. 'a sense of self'
deliberation;careful consideration. 'a little deliberation would have deterred them'
evocation;imaginative re-creation
phlegm;calm and unruffled self-assurance. 'he performed with all the coolness of a veteran'
critical appraisal;an appraisal based on careful analytical evaluation
perceptiveness;a feeling of understanding
passion;a feeling of strong sexual desire
furor;an interest followed with exaggerated zeal: 'he always follows the latest fads'. 'it was all the rage that season'
bereavement;state of sorrow over the death or departure of a loved one
mysophilia;abnormal attraction to filth
expectancy;pleasurable expectation
relish;vigorous and enthusiastic enjoyment
world weariness;sadness on thinking about the evils of the world
impossible action;an alternative that is not available
favour;a feeling of favorable regard
possibility;a possible alternative. 'bankruptcy is always a possibility'
grasping;understanding with difficulty. 'the lecture was beyond his most strenuous graspings'
necromania;an irresistible sexual attraction to dead bodies
beta test;a second test of an experimental product (such as computer software) carried out by an outside organization
blessedness;a state of supreme happiness
education;the gradual process of acquiring knowledge. 'education is a preparation for life'. 'a girl's education was less important than a boy's'
line;methodical reasoning. 'i can't follow your line of reasoning'
jitteriness;the anxious feeling you have when you have the jitters
sex;all of the feelings resulting from the urge to gratify sexual impulses. 'he wanted a better sex life'. 'the film contained no sex or violence'
emotion;any strong feeling
turmoil;violent agitation
misanthropy;hatred of mankind
fusion;the combining of images from the two eyes to form a single visual percept
jubilancy;a feeling of extreme joy
short temper;a feeling of resentful anger
delicacy;refined taste. tact
demarcation;a conceptual separation or demarcation: 'there is a narrow line between sanity and insanity'
masochism;sexual pleasure obtained from receiving punishment (physical or psychological)
regret;sadness associated with some wrong done or some disappointment. 'he drank to drown his sorrows'. 'he wrote a note expressing his regret'
subsuming;incorporating something under a more general category. 'he is a lawyer' is subsumed under 'he is a professional'
assuagement;the feeling that comes when something burdensome is removed or reduced. 'as he heard the news he was suddenly flooded with relief'
unpleasantness;the feeling caused by disagreeable stimuli. one pole of a continuum of states of feeling
self consciousness;self-awareness plus the additional realization that others are similarly aware of you
classical conditioning;conditioning that pairs a neutral stimulus with a stimulus that evokes a reflex. the neutral stimulus comes to evoke the reflex
chill;an almost pleasurable sensation of fright. 'a frisson of surprise shot through him'
odium;hate coupled with disgust
poignancy;a state of deeply felt distress or sorrow: 'a moment of extraordinary poignancy'
sensing;the perception that something has occurred or some state exists. 'early detection can often lead to a cure'
theanthropism;the representation of objects (especially a god) as having human form or traits
browse;reading superficially or at random
pricing;the evaluation of something in terms of its price
analytic thinking;the abstract separation of a whole into its constituent parts for study
charge;the release of a store of affective force. 'they got a great bang out of it'. 'what a rush!'. 'he does it for kicks'
line of inquiry;an ordering of questions so as to develop a particular argument
despondency;feeling downcast and disheartened and hopeless
enviousness;a feeling of grudging admiration and desire to have something possessed by another
feelings;emotional or moral sensitivity (especially in relation to personal principles or dignity). 'the remark hurt his feelings'
itch;a strong restless desire. 'why this urge to travel?'
druthers;the right or chance to choose: 'given my druthers, i'd eat cake'
complex;(psychoanalysis) a combination of emotions and impulses that have been rejected from awareness but still influence a person's behavior
rating;an appraisal of the value of something
wassermann test;a blood test to detect syphilis. a complement fixation test is used to detect antibodies to the syphilis organism treponema. a positive reaction indicates the presence of antibodies and therefore syphilis infection
impassiveness;apathy demonstrated by an absence of emotional reactions
easiness;a state of refreshing tranquility
high fashion;trend-setting fashions
heart;a positive feeling of liking. 'he had trouble expressing the affection he felt'. 'the child won everyone's heart'
compatibility;a feeling of sympathetic understanding
vision;a vivid mental image. 'he had a vision of his own death'
tenderheartedness;warm compassionate feelings
self education;the process of educating yourself
road test;a test to insure that a vehicle is roadworthy
maliciousness;feeling a need to see other suffer
thrill;an almost pleasurable sensation of fright. 'a frisson of surprise shot through him'
settlement;something settled or resolved. the outcome of decision making. 'the finally reached a settlement with the union'. 'they never did achieve a final resolution of their differences'
alienation;the feeling of being alienated from other people
kindheartedness;sympathy arising from a kind heart
timorousness;fear of the unknown or unfamiliar and of making decisions
free association;a thought process in which ideas (words or images) suggest other ideas in a sequence
sweet;the taste experience when sugar dissolves in the mouth
pleasure;a formal expression. 'he serves at the pleasure of the president'
avidness;a positive feeling of wanting to push ahead with something
wrath;intense anger (usually on an epic scale)
knock;negative criticism
good humor;a cheerful and agreeable mood
warmheartedness;a positive feeling of liking. 'he had trouble expressing the affection he felt'. 'the child won everyone's heart'
painfulness;emotional distress. a fundamental feeling that people try to avoid. 'the pain of loneliness'
differential threshold;the smallest change in stimulation that a person can detect
malodor;a distinctive odor that is offensively unpleasant
condensation;(psychoanalysis) an unconscious process whereby two ideas or images combine into a single symbol. especially in dreams
dismay;the feeling of despair in the face of obstacles
anticipation;reasoning about the future
unhappiness;emotions experienced when not in a state of well-being
cruelty;feelings of extreme heartlessness
appetency;a feeling of craving something. 'an appetite for life'. 'the object of life is to satisfy as many appetencies as possible'- granville hicks
class feeling;feelings of envy and resentment of one social or economic class for toward another
pure tone;a steady sound without overtones. 'they tested his hearing with pure tones of different frequencies'
dream;a cherished desire. 'his ambition is to own his own business'
friendliness;a feeling of liking for another person. enjoyment in their company
stewing;an extreme state of worry and agitation. 'his stewing over the fight kept him awake most of the night'
prejudgement;a judgment reached before the evidence is available
comprehension;an ability to understand the meaning or importance of something (or the knowledge acquired as a result). 'how you can do that is beyond my comprehension'. 'he was famous for his comprehension of american literature'
eroticism;the arousal of feelings of sexual desire
uncomfortableness;embarrassment deriving from the feeling that others are critically aware of you
fire;feelings of great warmth and intensity. 'he spoke with great ardor'
dead reckoning;an estimate based on little or no information
hatred;the emotion of hate. a feeling of dislike so strong that it demands action
quota;a limitation on imports. 'the quota for japanese imports was negotiated'
hilarity;great merriment
inducement;a positive motivational influence
experiment;the testing of an idea. 'it was an experiment in living'. 'not all experimentation is done in laboratories'
foreboding;a feeling of evil to come: 'a steadily escalating sense of foreboding'. 'the lawyer had a presentiment that the judge would dismiss the case'
infuriation;a feeling of intense anger
somatic sensation;the perception of tactual or proprioceptive or gut sensations. 'he relied on somesthesia to warn him of pressure changes'. 'he had a queasy feeling'
lasciviousness;feeling morbid sexual desire
urge;a strong restless desire. 'why this urge to travel?'
ardour;feelings of great warmth and intensity. 'he spoke with great ardor'
musk;the scent of musk
respect;a feeling of friendship and esteem. 'she mistook his manly regard for love'. 'he inspires respect'
trial;trying something to find out about it. 'a sample for ten days free trial'. 'a trial of progesterone failed to relieve the pain'
cognitive process;"the performance of some composite cognitive activity. an operation that affects mental contents. 'the process of thinking'. 'the act of remembering'"
cognizance;range of what one can know or understand
emulation;ambition to equal or excel
daze;a sudden state of violent emotional disturbance. 'the shock of his mother's death'
anticipation;pleasurable expectation
love;a strong positive emotion of regard and affection. 'his love for his work'. 'children need a lot of love'
torment;extreme mental distress
inspiration;a sudden intuition as part of solving a problem
import barrier;any regulation or policy that restricts international trade
diagonalization;(matrix algebra) changing a square matrix to diagonal form (with all non-zero elements on the principal diagonal). 'the diagonalization of a normal matrix by a unitary transformation'
touch sensation;the sensation produced by pressure receptors in the skin. 'she likes the touch of silk on her skin'. 'the surface had a greasy feeling'
egotism;an inflated feeling of pride in your superiority to others
public opinion poll;an inquiry into public opinion conducted by interviewing a random sample of people
find;a productive insight
rancor;a feeling of deep and bitter anger and ill-will
taste sensation;the sensation that results when taste buds in the tongue and throat convey information about the chemical composition of a soluble stimulus. 'the candy left him with a bad taste'. 'the melon had a delicious taste'
check;an appraisal of the state of affairs. 'they made an assay of the contents'. 'a check on its dependability under stress'
uneasiness;feelings of anxiety that make you tense and irritable
addiction;an abnormally strong craving
libido;(psychoanalysis) a freudian term for sexual urge or desire
why;the cause or intention underlying an action or situation esp in the phrase 'the whys and wherefores'
warmth;a warmhearted feeling
cult of personality;intense devotion to a particular person
despair;the feeling that everything is wrong and nothing will turn out well
scare;a sudden attack of fear
enragement;a feeling of intense anger
syllogism;deductive reasoning in which a conclusion is derived from two premises
madness;a feeling of intense anger. 'hell hath no fury like a woman scorned'. 'his face turned red with rage'
line of questioning;an ordering of questions so as to develop a particular argument
sensuousness;a sensuous feeling
wee small voice;an inner voice that judges your behavior
symbolization;something visible that by association or convention represents something else that is invisible. 'the eagle is a symbol of the united states'
factoring;(mathematics) the resolution of an integer or polynomial into factors such that when multiplied together they give the integer or polynomial
nature study;the study of animals and plants in the natural world (usually at an elementary level)
disgust;strong feelings of dislike
connoisseurship;love of or taste for fine objects of art
motor memory;your memory for motor skills
experimental extinction;a learning process in which the reinforcer is removed and a conditioned response becomes independent of the conditioned stimulus
exaltation;a state of being carried away by overwhelming emotion: 'listening to sweet music in a perfect rapture'- charles dickens
principle;an explanation of the working of some device in terms of laws of nature. 'the principles of internal-combusiton engines'
learning;the cognitive process of acquiring skill or knowledge. 'the child's acquisition of language'
monomania;a mania restricted to one thing or idea
disincentive;a negative motivational influence
schick test;a skin test for immunity to diphtheria
despisal;a feeling of scornful hatred
attack;turning your attention to a problem or a job etc.. 'his attack on the problem was misguided'. 'he did not make a direct assault on her affections'
beneficence;doing good. feeling beneficent
optimism;the optimistic feeling that all is going to turn out well
urge;an instinctive motive. 'profound religious impulses'
self hatred;shame resulting from strong dislike of yourself or your actions
jealousy;a feeling of jealous envy (especially of a rival)
belligerency;hostile or warlike attitude or nature
vanity;feelings of excessive pride
affection;a positive feeling of liking. 'he had trouble expressing the affection he felt'. 'the child won everyone's heart'
insouciance;the cheerful feeling you have when nothing is troubling you
exploration;a systematic consideration. 'he called for a careful exploration of the consequences'
turnaround;a decision to reverse an earlier decision
humour;a characteristic (habitual or relatively temporary) state of feeling. 'whether he praised or cursed me depended on his temper at the time'. 'he was in a bad humor'
commiseration;a feeling of sympathy and sorrow for the misfortunes of others. 'the blind are too often objects of pity'
wanderlust;very strong or irresistible impulse to travel
craze;an interest followed with exaggerated zeal: 'he always follows the latest fads'. 'it was all the rage that season'
advertency;the process of being heedful
overvaluation;too high a value or price assigned to something
dreaming;a series of mental images and emotions occurring during sleep. 'i had a dream about you last night'
self complacency;the feeling you have when you are satisfied with yourself. 'his complacency was absolutely disgusting'
attending;the process whereby a person concentrates on some features of the environment to the (relative) exclusion of others
jubilation;a feeling of extreme joy
acquisition;the cognitive process of acquiring skill or knowledge. 'the child's acquisition of language'
classification;the basic cognitive process of arranging into classes or categories
clock watching;paying excessive attention to the clock (in anticipation of stopping work)
penitence;remorse for your past conduct
humiliation;strong feelings of embarrassment
abandon;extreme emotional intensity. 'the wildness of his anger'
creeps;(informal) a feeling of fear and revulsion. 'he gives me the creeps'
guessing;an estimate based on little or no information
perceptiveness;delicate discrimination (especially of aesthetic values). 'arrogance and lack of taste contributed to his rapid success'. 'to ask at that particular time was the ultimate in bad taste'
audio lingual acquisition;system of language acquisition focusing intensively on listening and speaking
green eyed monster;a feeling of jealous envy (especially of a rival)
abomination;hate coupled with disgust
electricity;keen and shared excitement. 'the stage crackled with electricity whenever she was on it'
isolationism;a policy of nonparticipation in international economic and political relations
identification;the process of recognizing something or someone by remembering
irresistible impulse;an urge to do or say something that might be better left undone or unsaid
mercifulness;the feeling that motivates compassion
sound perception;the perception of sound as a meaningful phenomenon
logorrhea;pathologically excessive (and often incoherent) talking
bang;the release of a store of affective force. 'they got a great bang out of it'. 'what a rush!'. 'he does it for kicks'
high dudgeon;a feeling of intense indignation (now used only in the phrase 'in high dudgeon')
memorization;learning so as to be able to remember verbatim. 'the actor's memorization of his lines'
self knowledge;an understanding of yourself and your goals and abilities
imprinting;a learning process in early life whereby species specific patterns of behavior are established
haute couture;trend-setting fashions
excitement;the feeling of lively and cheerful joy. 'he could hardly conceal his excitement when she agreed'
grief;intense sorrow caused by loss of a loved one (especially by death)
synaesthesia;a sensation that normally occurs in one sense modality occurs when another modality is stimulated
whim;a sudden desire. 'he bought it on impulse'
terror;an overwhelming feeling of fear and anxiety
indifference;apathy demonstrated by an absence of emotional reactions
rubicon;a line that when crossed permits of no return and typically results in irrevocable commitment
touchiness;feeling easily irritated
inadvertence;omission resulting from failure to notice something
tranquility;a state of peace and quiet
animosity;a feeling of ill will arousing active hostility
analogy;(logic) inference that if things agree in some respects they probably agree in others
remorse;a feeling of deep regret (usually for some misdeed)
carry over;generalization of a skill learned in one situation to a different but similar situation
zeal;excessive fervor to do something or accomplish some end. 'he had an absolute zeal for litigation'
oversight;omission resulting from failure to notice something
need;"the psychological feature that arouses an organism to action. the reason for the action. 'we did not understand his motivation'. 'he acted with the best of motives'"
investigation;an inquiry into unfamiliar or questionable activities. 'there was a congressional probe into the scandal'
emotional state;the state of a person's emotions (especially with regard to pleasure or dejection). 'his emotional state depended on her opinion'. 'he was in good spirits'. 'his spirit rose'
hindsight;understanding the nature of an event after it has happened. 'hindisght is always better than foresight'
vengefulness;a malevolent desire for revenge
mass culture;the culture that is widely disseminated via the mass media
concern;a feeling of sympathy for someone or something. 'she felt strong concern for those less fortunate'
first derivative;the result of mathematical differentiation. the instantaneous change of one quantity relative to another. df(x)/dx
carnality;feeling morbid sexual desire
undertow;an inclination contrary to the strongest or prevailing feeling. 'his account had a poignant undertow of regret'
digitization;conversion of analog information into digital information
jocularity;a feeling facetious merriment
hope;a specific instance of feeling hopeful. 'it revived their hope of winning the pennant'
imagery;the ability to form mental images of things or events. 'he could still hear her in his imagination'
frustration;the feeling that accompanies an experience of being thwarted in attaining your goals
hopelessness;the despair you feel when you have abandoned hope of comfort or success
bad blood;a feeling of ill will arousing active hostility
sweetness;the taste experience when sugar dissolves in the mouth
trend;the popular taste at a given time. 'leather is the latest vogue'. 'he followed current trends'. 'the 1920s had a style of their own'
glumness;a gloomy ill-tempered feeling
fever;intense nervous anticipation. 'in a fever of resentment'
pensiveness;persistent morbid meditation on a problem
examination;examination of conscience (as done daily by jesuits)
ruthlessness;feelings of extreme heartlessness
alpha test;a first test of an experimental product (such as computer software) carried out by the developer
apprehension;the cognitive condition of someone who understands. 'he has virtually no understanding of social cause and effect'
imaging;the ability to form mental images of things or events. 'he could still hear her in his imagination'
puppy love;temporary love of an adolescent
racket;the auditory experience of sound that lacks musical quality. sound that is a disagreeable auditory experience. 'modern music is just noise to me'
reasoning backward;the reasoning involved when you assume the conclusion is true and reason backward to the evidence
gustatory sensation;the sensation that results when taste buds in the tongue and throat convey information about the chemical composition of a soluble stimulus. 'the candy left him with a bad taste'. 'the melon had a delicious taste'
style;the popular taste at a given time. 'leather is the latest vogue'. 'he followed current trends'. 'the 1920s had a style of their own'
misocainea;hatred of new ideas
harmonic;a tone that is a component of a complex sound
reconstruction;recall via mental reconstruction
mercy;the feeling that motivates compassion
joyousness;the emotion of great happiness
tactual sensation;the sensation produced by pressure receptors in the skin. 'she likes the touch of silk on her skin'. 'the surface had a greasy feeling'
party line;the policy of a political group. 'he won in a vote along party lines'
preference;a strong liking. 'my own preference is for good literature'. 'the irish have a penchant for blarney'. 'martinis are an acquired taste'
apgar score;an assessment of the physical condition of a newborn infant. involves heart rate and muscle tone and respiratory effort and color and reflex responsiveness
sorrowfulness;the state of being sad. 'she tired of his perpetual sadness'
presentiment;a feeling of evil to come: 'a steadily escalating sense of foreboding'. 'the lawyer had a presentiment that the judge would dismiss the case'
provocation;a means of arousing or stirring to action
opening;a possible alternative. 'bankruptcy is always a possibility'
chill;a sudden numbing dread
generalization;generalization of a skill learned in one situation to a different but similar situation
discretion;refined taste. tact
angst;an acute but unspecific feeling of anxiety. usually reserved for philosophical anxiety about the world or about personal freedom
mind;attention. 'don't pay him any mind'
spleen;a feeling of resentful anger
shudder;an almost pleasurable sensation of fright. 'a frisson of surprise shot through him'
beatitude;a state of supreme happiness
make believe;an imaginative pretence
reversal;a decision to reverse an earlier decision
national trading policy;a government's policy controlling foreign trade
infatuation;foolish and usually extravagant passion or love or admiration
mysticism;obscure or irrational thought
calf love;temporary love of an adolescent
relish;the taste experience when a savoury condiment is taken into the mouth
amazement;the feeling that accompanies something extremely surprising. 'he looked at me in astonishment'
attribution;assigning to a cause or source
subsumption;incorporating something under a more general category. 'he is a lawyer' is subsumed under 'he is a professional'
intimidation;the feeling of being intimidated
frisson;an almost pleasurable sensation of fright. 'a frisson of surprise shot through him'
gloating;malicious satisfaction
quietude;a state of peace and quiet
neglect;lack of attention and due care
exclusion;a deliberate act of omission. 'with the exception of the children, everyone was told the news'
monroe doctrine;an american foreign policy opposing interference in the western hemisphere from outside powers
price control;restriction on maximum prices that is established and maintained by the government (as during periods of war or inflation)
palmistry;telling fortunes by lines on the palm of the hand
selection;the person or thing chosen or selected. 'he was my pick for mayor'
personal memory;memory for episodes in your own life
devotedness;feelings of ardent love. 'their devotion to each other was beautiful'
logomania;pathologically excessive (and often incoherent) talking
stupor;a sudden state of violent emotional disturbance. 'the shock of his mother's death'
odour;the sensation that results when olfactory receptors in the nose are stimulated by particular chemicals in gaseous form. 'she loved the smell of roses'
impulse;an instinctive motive. 'profound religious impulses'
aphrodisia;a desire for heterosexual intimacy
poignance;a state of deeply felt distress or sorrow: 'a moment of extraordinary poignancy'
uncheerfulness;a feeling of dreary or pessimistic sadness
fright;an emotion experienced in anticipation of some specific pain or danger (usually accompanied by a desire to flee or fight)
misology;hatred of reasoning
contrition;sorrow for sin arising from fear of damnation
test drive;test of the roadworthiness of a vehicle one is considering buying
loathing;hate coupled with disgust
depiction;a representation by picture or portraiture
nausea;disgust so strong it makes you feel sick
tenderness;warm compassionate feelings
consternation;fear resulting from the awareness of danger
petulance;an irritable petulant feeling
disconsolateness;feeling downcast and disheartened and hopeless
pessimism;the feeling that things will turn out badly
belligerence;hostile or warlike attitude or nature
aggressiveness;a feeling of hostility that arouses thoughts of attack
understanding;the cognitive condition of someone who understands. 'he has virtually no understanding of social cause and effect'
pleasance;a fundamental feeling that is hard to define but that people desire to experience. 'he was tingling with pleasure'
mania;an irrational but irresistible motive for a belief or action
triumph;the exultation of victory
gleefulness;great merriment
acathexis;(psychoanalysis) a lack of cathexis. a condition in which significant objects or memories arouse no emotion in an individual
pruriency;feeling morbid sexual desire
definite integral;the integral of a function over a definite interval
forgiveness;compassionate feelings that support a willingness to forgive
attrition;sorrow for sin arising from fear of damnation
supposition;the cognitive process of supposing
coolness;calm and unruffled self-assurance. 'he performed with all the coolness of a veteran'
colored audition;a form of chromesthesia in which experiences of color accompany auditory stimuli
somesthesia;the perception of tactual or proprioceptive or gut sensations. 'he relied on somesthesia to warn him of pressure changes'. 'he had a queasy feeling'
annoyance;anger produced by some annoying irritation
theorisation;the production or use of theories
sense of duty;a motivating awareness of ethical responsibility
fear;an anxious feeling. 'care had aged him'. 'they hushed it up out of fear of public reaction'
heartlessness;an absence of concern for the welfare of others
aloofness;indifference by personal withdrawal. 'emotional distance'
fervour;feelings of great warmth and intensity. 'he spoke with great ardor'
antagonism;an actively expressed feeling of dislike and hostility
disgruntlement;a feeling of sulky discontent
option;an alternative action. 'what option did i have?' or 'there no other alternative' or 'my only choice is to refuse'
pilot experiment;a preliminary experiment whose outcome can lead to a more extensive experiment
gladness;experiencing joy and pleasure
appetence;a feeling of craving something. 'an appetite for life'. 'the object of life is to satisfy as many appetencies as possible'- granville hicks
intervention;a policy of intervening in the affairs of other countries
chiromancy;telling fortunes by lines on the palm of the hand
impossible;something that cannot be done. 'his assignment verged on the impossible'
fellow feeling;sharing the feelings of others (especially feelings of sorrow or anguish)
stink;a distinctive odor that is offensively unpleasant
animatism;the attribution of consciousness and personality to natural phenomena such as thunderstorms and earthquakes and to objects such as plants and stones
generalization;reasoning from detailed facts to general principles
scorn;lack of respect accompanied by a feeling of intense dislike
quest;a search for an alternative that meets cognitive criteria
sorrow;an emotion of great sadness associated with loss or bereavement. 'he tried to express his sorrow at her loss'
tartness;the taste experience when vinegar or lemon juice is taken into the mouth
morality;motivation based on ideas of right and wrong
stupefaction;a feeling of stupefied astonishment
sinking feeling;a feeling caused by uneasiness or apprehension. 'with a sinking heart'. 'a sinking feeling in the pit of my stomach'
ardor;intense feeling of love
conscience;motivation deriving logically from ethical or moral principles that govern a person's thoughts and actions
stolidity;apathy demonstrated by an absence of emotional reactions
mercilessness;feelings of extreme heartlessness
sorting;the basic cognitive process of arranging into classes or categories
scent;an odor left in passing by which a person or animal can be traced
criticism;a serious examination and judgment of something. 'constructive criticism is always appreciated'
portraying;a representation by picture or portraiture
relief;the feeling that comes when something burdensome is removed or reduced. 'as he heard the news he was suddenly flooded with relief'
mood;a characteristic (habitual or relatively temporary) state of feeling. 'whether he praised or cursed me depended on his temper at the time'. 'he was in a bad humor'
theorization;the production or use of theories
symbol;something visible that by association or convention represents something else that is invisible. 'the eagle is a symbol of the united states'
self depreciation;a feeling of being of little worth
prefiguration;providing advance indications
acid test;a rigorous or crucial appraisal
working memory;memory for intermediate results that must be held during thinking
nonaggression;a policy of not initiating hostilities. 'they signed a nonagression pact'
fervidness;feelings of great warmth and intensity. 'he spoke with great ardor'
enchantment;a feeling of great liking for something wonderful and unusual
itching;an irritating cutaneous sensation that produces a desire to scratch
soreness;an uncomfortable feeling in some part of the body
rage;a feeling of intense anger. 'hell hath no fury like a woman scorned'. 'his face turned red with rage'
remark;explicit notice. 'it passed without remark'
self awareness;awareness of your own individuality
defeat;the feeling that accompanies an experience of being thwarted in attaining your goals
jubilance;a feeling of extreme joy
huffishness;a feeling of sulky resentment
acculturation;the process of assimilating new ideas into an existing cognitive structure
sulkiness;a mood or display of sullen aloofness or withdrawal: 'stayed home in a sulk'
episodic memory;memory for episodes in your own life
knowing;clear and certain mental apprehension
melody;the perception of pleasant arrangements of musical notes
lividity;a state of fury so great the face becomes discolored
playfulness;a festive merry feeling
craving;an intense desire for some particular thing
chimaera;a grotesque product of the imagination
letters;the literary culture. 'this book shows american letters at its best'
feeling;the sensation produced by pressure receptors in the skin. 'she likes the touch of silk on her skin'. 'the surface had a greasy feeling'
sense of right and wrong;motivation deriving logically from ethical or moral principles that govern a person's thoughts and actions
sadism;sexual pleasure obtained by inflicting harm (physical or psychological) on others
mirror;a faithful depiction or reflection. 'the best mirror is an old friend'
wishfulness;an unrealistic yearning
reason;a rational motive for a belief or action. 'the reason that war was declared'. 'the grounds for their declaration'
consciousness;having knowledge of. 'he had no awareness of his mistakes'. 'his sudden consciousness of the problem he faced'. 'their intelligence and general knowingness was impressive'
browsing;reading superficially or at random
kick;the release of a store of affective force. 'they got a great bang out of it'. 'what a rush!'. 'he does it for kicks'
anguish;extreme mental distress
smell;the sensation that results when olfactory receptors in the nose are stimulated by particular chemicals in gaseous form. 'she loved the smell of roses'
exception;a deliberate act of omission. 'with the exception of the children, everyone was told the news'
reminiscence;a mental impression retained and recalled
interpolation;(mathematics) calculation of the value of a function between the values already known
light;a divine presence believed by quakers to enlighten and guide the soul
self pity;a feeling of sorrow (often self-indulgent) over your own sufferings
standing for;something visible that by association or convention represents something else that is invisible. 'the eagle is a symbol of the united states'
oppression;a feeling of being oppressed
hairsplitting;making too fine distinctions of little importance. 'they didn't take his hairsplitting seriously'
malice;feeling a need to see other suffer
ideation;the process of forming and relating ideas
warmheartedness;a warmhearted feeling
colored hearing;a form of chromesthesia in which experiences of color accompany auditory stimuli
solemnity;a solemn and dignified feeling
ill humour;an angry and disagreeable mood
pursuit;a search for an alternative that meets cognitive criteria
inference;the reasoning involved in making a logical judgment on the basis of circumstantial evidence and prior conclusions rather than on the basis of direct observation
ravishment;a feeling of delight at being filled with wonder and enchantment
empirical research;an empirical search for knowledge
hunt;a search for an alternative that meets cognitive criteria
seeing;perception by means of the eyes
visual space;the visual perception of space
lassitude;a feeling of lack of interest or energy
flash;a sudden brilliant understanding. 'he had a flash of intuition'
advertence;the process of being heedful
ungratefulness;a lack of gratitude
visual perception;perception by means of the eyes
overestimate;a calculation that results in an estimate that is too high
fond regard;a feeling of affection for a person or an institution
resentment;a feeling of deep and bitter anger and ill-will
cynicism;a cynical feeling of distrust
brainwave;the clear (and often sudden) understanding of a complex situation
gratification;state of being gratified. great satisfaction: 'dull repetitious work gives no gratification'. 'to my immense gratification he arrived on time'
canvass;an inquiry into public opinion conducted by interviewing a random sample of people
unconscious process;"a mental process that you are not directly aware of. 'the process of denial'"
cacoethes;an irrational but irresistible motive for a belief or action
believing;the cognitive process that leads to convictions. 'seeing is believing'
musing;a calm lengthy intent consideration
shiver;an almost pleasurable sensation of fright. 'a frisson of surprise shot through him'
indignation;a feeling of righteous anger
painful sensation;a somatic sensation of acute discomfort. 'as the intensity increased the sensation changed from tickle to pain'
consideration;the process of giving careful thought to something
favor;a feeling of favorable regard
insight;the clear (and often sudden) understanding of a complex situation
possession;a mania restricted to one thing or idea
resolution;something settled or resolved. the outcome of decision making. 'the finally reached a settlement with the union'. 'they never did achieve a final resolution of their differences'
scene;a display of bad temper. 'he had a fit'. 'she threw a tantrum'. 'he made a scene'
woe;intense mournfulness
mental imagery;the ability to form mental images of things or events. 'he could still hear her in his imagination'
social policy;a policy of for dealing with social issues
nirvana;(hinduism and buddhism) the beatitude that transcends the cycle of reincarnation. characterized by the extinction of desire and individual consciousness
papanicolaou test;a method of examining stained cells in a cervical smear for early diagnosis of uterine cancer
chromaesthesia;a form of synesthesia in which nonvisual stimulation results in the experience of color sensations
joyfulness;the emotion of great happiness
presage;a foreboding about what is about to happen
imagination;the ability to form mental images of things or events. 'he could still hear her in his imagination'
wherefore;the cause or intention underlying an action or situation esp in the phrase 'the whys and wherefores'
fondness;a predisposition to like something. 'he had a fondness for whiskey'
judging;the cognitive process of reaching a decision or drawing conclusions
underestimate;a calculation that results in an estimate that is too low
sensuality;desire for sensual pleasures
dismay;fear resulting from the awareness of danger
observation;explicit notice. 'it passed without remark'
shadow;a premonition of something adverse. 'a shadow over his happiness'
conditioned emotion;an emotional response that has been acquired by conditioning
fervor;feelings of great warmth and intensity. 'he spoke with great ardor'
change of mind;a decision to reverse an earlier decision
stir;emotional agitation and excitement
astringence;a sharp astringent taste. the taste experience when a substance causes the mouth to pucker
sulkiness;a feeling of sulky resentment
exuberance;joyful enthusiasm
illation;the reasoning involved in making a logical judgment on the basis of circumstantial evidence and prior conclusions rather than on the basis of direct observation
abashment;feeling embarrassed due to modesty
language learning;learning to use a language
christ within;a divine presence believed by quakers to enlighten and guide the soul
economic policy;a government policy for maintaining economic growth and tax revenues
pressure sensation;the somatic sensation of pressure. 'the sensitivity of his skin to pressure and temperature was normal'
natural history;the systematic account of natural phenomena
dynamic;an efficient incentive. 'they hoped it would act as a spiritual dynamic on all churches'
impulse;a sudden desire. 'he bought it on impulse'
empathy;understanding and entering into another's feelings
enmity;the feeling of a hostile person. 'he could no longer contain his hostility'
abhorrence;hate coupled with disgust
misgiving;uneasiness about the fitness of an action
hardheartedness;an absence of concern for the welfare of others
turnabout;a decision to reverse an earlier decision
sensation;an unelaborated elementary awareness of stimulation. 'a sensation of touch'
niff;(british slang) an unpleasant smell
state;(informal) a state of depression or agitation. 'he was in such a state you just couldn't reason with him'
impossibility;an alternative that is not available
colour constancy;the tendency for a color to look the same under widely different viewing conditions
smattering;a slight or superficial understanding of a subject
grade;a number or letter indicating quality (especially of a student's performance). 'she made good marks in algebra'. 'grade a milk'. 'what was your score on your homework?'
happiness;emotions experienced when in a state of well-being
neutralism;a policy of neutrality or nonalignment in international affairs
introjection;(psychoanalysis) the internalization of the parent figures and their values. leads to the formation of the superego
sour;the taste experience when vinegar or lemon juice is taken into the mouth
dread;fearful expectation or anticipation: 'the student looked around the examination room with apprehension'
auditory perception;the perception of sound as a meaningful phenomenon
hackles;a feeling of anger and animosity. 'having one's hackles or dander up'
good humour;a cheerful and agreeable mood
oppressiveness;a feeling of being oppressed
mawkishness;insincere pathos
temperature;the somatic sensation of cold or heat
trade embargo;a government order imposing a trade barrier
dissatisfaction;the feeling of being displeased and discontent. 'he was never slow to express his dissatistfaction with the service he received'
dislike;a feeling of aversion or antipathy. 'my dislike of him was instinctive'
soul searching;a penetrating examination of your own beliefs and motives
applecart;the planning that is disrupted when someone 'upsets the applecart'
vision;the perceptual experience of seeing. 'the runners emerged from the trees into his clear vision'. 'he had a visual sensation of intense light'
physical attraction;a desire for sexual intimacy
lecherousness;a strong sexual desire
trepidation;a feeling of alarm or dread
testiness;feeling easily irritated
dividing line;a conceptual separation or demarcation: 'there is a narrow line between sanity and insanity'
rejoicing;a feeling of great happiness
reappraisal;a new appraisal or evaluation
ethics;motivation based on ideas of right and wrong
dissection;a minute and critical analysis
immediate apprehension;immediate intuitive awareness
discernment;delicate discrimination (especially of aesthetic values). 'arrogance and lack of taste contributed to his rapid success'. 'to ask at that particular time was the ultimate in bad taste'
sharpness;having a sharp bitter flavor
nymphomania;abnormally intense sexual desire in women
restlessness;a feeling of agitation expressed in continual motion. 'he's got the fidgets'. 'waiting gave him a feeling of restlessness'
study;applying the mind to learning and understanding a subject (especially by reading). 'mastering a second language requires a lot of work'. 'no schools offer graduate study in interior design'
point of no return;a line that when crossed permits of no return and typically results in irrevocable commitment
fancy;a predisposition to like something. 'he had a fondness for whiskey'
nativism;the policy of perpetuating native cultures (in opposition to acculturation)
ingratitude;a lack of gratitude
floor;a lower limit: 'the government established a wage floor'
ill will;the feeling of a hostile person. 'he could no longer contain his hostility'
pitilessness;feelings of extreme heartlessness
difference threshold;the smallest change in stimulation that a person can detect
