outwardness;concern with outward things or material objects (especially the body and its appearance) as opposed to the mind and spirit: 'hearty showmanship and all-around outwardness'
mental reservation;an unstated doubt that prevents you from accepting something wholeheartedly
secret;something that baffles understanding and cannot be explained. 'how it got out is a mystery'. 'it remains one of nature's secrets'
religious trance;a trance induced by intense religious devotion. does not show reduced bodily functions that are typical of other trances
affairs;matters of personal concern: 'get his affairs in order'
vacillation;indecision in speech or action
desire to know;curiosity that motivates investigation and study
mystification;confusion resulting from failure to understand
part;so far as concerns the actor specified. 'it requires vigilance on our part' or 'they resisted every effort on his part'
anglomania;an excessive enthusiasm for all things english
forgetfulness;unawareness caused by neglectful or heedless failure to remember. 'his forgetfulness increased as he grew older'
snoopiness;offensive inquisitiveness
affair;a vaguely specified concern. 'several matters to attend to'. 'it is none of your affair'. 'things are going well'
bewilderment;confusion resulting from failure to understand
absorption;the mental state of being preoccupied by something
amnesia;partial or total loss of memory: 'he has a total blackout for events of the evening'
world;the concerns of the world as distinguished from heaven and the afterlife. 'they consider the church to be independent of the world'
selective amnesia;amnesia about particular events that is very convenient for the person who cannot remember. 'why do politicians always develop selective amnesia when questioned about their transgressions?'
inwardness;preoccupation especially with one's attitudes and ethical or ideological values: 'the sensitiveness of james's characters, their seeming inwardness'. 'socrates' inwardness, integrity, and inquisitiveness'
coma;a state of deep and often prolonged unconsciousness. usually the result of disease or injury
awareness;state of elementary or undifferentiated consciousness. 'the crash intruded on his awareness'
oblivion;total forgetfulness. 'he sought the great oblivion of sleep'
arriere pensee;an unstated doubt that prevents you from accepting something wholeheartedly
closed book;something that baffles understanding and cannot be explained. 'how it got out is a mystery'. 'it remains one of nature's secrets'
self assurance;freedom from doubt. belief in yourself and your abilities. 'his assurance in his superiority did not make him popular'. 'after that failure he lost his confidence'
disbelief;doubt about the truth of something
befuddlement;confusion resulting from failure to understand
lust for learning;curiosity that motivates investigation and study
obfuscation;confusion resulting from failure to understand
certainty;the state of being certain: 'his certainty reassured the others'
doubt;the state of being unsure of something
unawareness;unconsciousness resulting from lack of knowledge or attention
wonder;a state in which you want to learn more about something
ivory tower;a state of mind that is discussed as if it were a place. 'he lived in the ivory tower of speculation'. 'they viewed universities as ivory towers'
dubiousness;the state of being unsure of something
anterograde amnesia;loss of memory for events immediately following a trauma. sometimes in effect for events during and for a long time following the trauma
snarl;something jumbled or confused
cognitive state;"the state of a person's cognitive processes"
mystery;something that baffles understanding and cannot be explained. 'how it got out is a mystery'. 'it remains one of nature's secrets'
earth;the concerns of the world as distinguished from heaven and the afterlife. 'they consider the church to be independent of the world'
arousal;awakening from sleep
state of mind;"the state of a person's cognitive processes"
distraction;mental turmoil. 'he drives me to distraction'
retrograde amnesia;loss of memory for events immediately preceding a trauma
unselfconsciousness;the quality of being not self-conscious. unawareness of yourself or of others' views of yourself. 'he had the unselfconsciousness of a child'
comatoseness;a state of deep and often prolonged unconsciousness. usually the result of disease or injury
confidence;freedom from doubt. belief in yourself and your abilities. 'his assurance in his superiority did not make him popular'. 'after that failure he lost his confidence'
thing;a vaguely specified concern. 'several matters to attend to'. 'it is none of your affair'. 'things are going well'
bafflement;confusion resulting from failure to understand
anima;(jungian psychology) the inner self (not the external persona) that is in touch with the unconscious
involvement;a sense of concern with and curiosity about someone or something. 'an interest in music'
reliance;certainty based on past experience. 'he wrote the paper with considerable reliance on the work of other scientists'. 'he put more trust in his own two legs than in the gun'
uncertainty;the state of being unsure of something
skepticism;doubt about the truth of something
disarray;a mental state characterized by a lack of clear and orderly thought and behavior
enthusiasm;a lively interest. 'enthusiasm for his program is growing'
matter;a vaguely specified concern. 'several matters to attend to'. 'it is none of your affair'. 'things are going well'
doubtfulness;the state of being unsure of something
consciousness;an alert cognitive state in which you are aware of yourself and your situation. 'he lost consciousness'
wakefulness;a periodic state during which you are conscious and aware of the world
prying;offensive inquisitiveness
indecision;doubt concerning two or more possible alternatives or courses of action. 'his indecision was only momentary but the opportunity was lost'
stupefaction;marginal consciousness. 'his grogginess was caused as much by exhaustion and by the blows'. 'someone stole his wallet while he was in a drunken stupor'
insensibility;a lack of sensibility
sentience;state of elementary or undifferentiated consciousness. 'the crash intruded on his awareness'
preoccupation;the mental state of being preoccupied by something
abstraction;preoccupation with something to the exclusion of all else
brown study;a state of deep absorption or thoughtfulness
hesitation;indecision in speech or action
certitude;total certainty or greater certainty that circumstances warrant
incertitude;the state of being unsure of something
mistrust;doubt about someone's honesty
reservation;an unstated doubt that prevents you from accepting something wholeheartedly
abstractedness;preoccupation with something to the exclusion of all else
semiconsciousness;marginal consciousness. 'his grogginess was caused as much by exhaustion and by the blows'. 'someone stole his wallet while he was in a drunken stupor'
interest;a sense of concern with and curiosity about someone or something. 'an interest in music'
unknowingness;unconsciousness resulting from lack of knowledge or attention
concern;something that interests you because it is important or affects you. 'the safety of the ship is the captain's concern'
grogginess;marginal consciousness. 'his grogginess was caused as much by exhaustion and by the blows'. 'someone stole his wallet while he was in a drunken stupor'
suspicion;doubt about someone's honesty
absentmindedness;preoccupation so great that the ordinary demands on attention are ignored
fog;confusion characterized by lack of clarity
unconsciousness;a state lacking normal awareness of the environment
haze;confusion characterized by lack of clarity
stream of consciousness;the continuous flow of ideas and feelings that constitute an individual's conscious experience
semicoma;a mild comatose state. a coma from which the person can be roused by appropriate stimuli
dubiety;the state of being unsure of something
engrossment;the mental state of being preoccupied by something
posttraumatic amnesia;loss of memory for events immediately following a trauma. sometimes in effect for events during and for a long time following the trauma
misgiving;doubt about someone's honesty
incredulity;doubt about the truth of something
point of honor;a concern that seriously reflects on your honor
self;your consciousness of your own identity
memory loss;partial or total loss of memory: 'he has a total blackout for events of the evening'
irresolution;doubt concerning two or more possible alternatives or courses of action. 'his indecision was only momentary but the opportunity was lost'
inquisitiveness;a state of active curiosity
mental rejection;doubt about the truth of something
daze;confusion characterized by lack of clarity
authority;freedom from doubt. belief in yourself and your abilities. 'his assurance in his superiority did not make him popular'. 'after that failure he lost his confidence'
quandary;state of uncertainty or perplexity especially as requiring a choice between equally unfavorable options
subconsciousness;a state of mind not immediately available to consciousness
reverie;an abstracted state of absorption
disorientation;confusion about what you are or what you are doing
set;(psychology) a temporary readiness to respond in a particular way. 'the subjects' set led them to solve problems the familiar way and to overlook the simpler solution'. 'his instructions deliberately gave them the wrong set'
nosiness;offensive inquisitiveness
overconfidence;total certainty or greater certainty that circumstances warrant
confusion;a mental state characterized by a lack of clear and orderly thought and behavior
half cock;confusion resulting from lack of preparation
bemusement;confusion resulting from failure to understand
cocksureness;total certainty or greater certainty that circumstances warrant
vigil;a period of sleeplessness
dream;a state of mind characterized by abstraction and release from reality. 'he went about his work as if in a dream'
trance;a state of mind in which consciousness is fragile and voluntary action is poor or missing. a state resembling deep sleep
interestedness;the state of being interested
ego;your consciousness of your own identity
thirst for knowledge;curiosity that motivates investigation and study
tangle;something jumbled or confused
assurance;freedom from doubt. belief in yourself and your abilities. 'his assurance in his superiority did not make him popular'. 'after that failure he lost his confidence'
paramnesia;(psychiatry) a disorder of memory in which dreams or fantasies are confused with reality
complication;something jumbled or confused
stupor;marginal consciousness. 'his grogginess was caused as much by exhaustion and by the blows'. 'someone stole his wallet while he was in a drunken stupor'
dilemma;state of uncertainty or perplexity especially as requiring a choice between equally unfavorable options
curiousness;a state of active curiosity
curiosity;a state in which you want to learn more about something
preoccupancy;the mental state of being preoccupied by something
blackout;a momentary loss of consciousness
sensibility;mental responsiveness and awareness
earthly concern;the concerns of the world as distinguished from heaven and the afterlife. 'they consider the church to be independent of the world'
perplexity;trouble or confusion resulting from complexity
forgetfulness;tendency to forget
self confidence;freedom from doubt. belief in yourself and your abilities. 'his assurance in his superiority did not make him popular'. 'after that failure he lost his confidence'
narcosis;unconsciousness induced by narcotics or anesthesia
sureness;freedom from doubt. belief in yourself and your abilities. 'his assurance in his superiority did not make him popular'. 'after that failure he lost his confidence'
puzzlement;confusion resulting from failure to understand
wavering;indecision in speech or action
readiness;(psychology) a temporary readiness to respond in a particular way. 'the subjects' set led them to solve problems the familiar way and to overlook the simpler solution'. 'his instructions deliberately gave them the wrong set'
waking;the state of being awake
hypnotic trance;a trance induced by the use of hypnosis. the person accepts the suggestions of the hypnotist
indecisiveness;doubt concerning two or more possible alternatives or courses of action. 'his indecision was only momentary but the opportunity was lost'
enigma;something that baffles understanding and cannot be explained. 'how it got out is a mystery'. 'it remains one of nature's secrets'
trust;certainty based on past experience. 'he wrote the paper with considerable reliance on the work of other scientists'. 'he put more trust in his own two legs than in the gun'
distrust;doubt about someone's honesty
ecstatic state;a trance induced by intense religious devotion. does not show reduced bodily functions that are typical of other trances
mental confusion;a mental state characterized by a lack of clear and orderly thought and behavior
suspense;an uncertain cognitive state. 'the matter remained in suspense for several years'
personal business;matters of personal concern: 'get his affairs in order'
obliviousness;total forgetfulness. 'he sought the great oblivion of sleep'
worldly concern;the concerns of the world as distinguished from heaven and the afterlife. 'they consider the church to be independent of the world'
jamais vu;the experience of being unfamiliar with a person or situation that is actually very familiar. associated with certain types of epilepsy
revery;an abstracted state of absorption
blackout;partial or total loss of memory: 'he has a total blackout for events of the evening'
semitrance;a trance-like state in which the person can follow instructions but voluntary action is weak or absent
