line of merchandise;"a particular kind of product. 'a nice line of shoes'"
sideline;an auxiliary line of merchandise
line of business;"a particular kind of product. 'a nice line of shoes'"
piece goods;fabrics sold by the yard
commodity;"articles of commerce"
number;an item of merchandise offered for sale. 'she preferred the black nylon number'. 'this sweater is an all-wool number'
wares;"commodities offered for sale. 'good business depends on having good merchandise'. 'that store offers a variety of products'"
second;merchandise that has imperfections. usually sold at a reduced price without the brand name
line of products;"a particular kind of product. 'a nice line of shoes'"
import;"goods or services bought from a foreign country"
software product;a computer program that is offered for sale
load;goods carried by a large vehicle
cargo;goods carried by a large vehicle
lading;goods carried by a large vehicle
schlock;(slang) merchandise that is shoddy or inferior
payload;goods carried by a large vehicle
shipment;goods carried by a large vehicle
business line;"a particular kind of product. 'a nice line of shoes'"
merchandise;"commodities offered for sale. 'good business depends on having good merchandise'. 'that store offers a variety of products'"
inventory;the merchandise that a shop has on hand. 'they carried a vast inventory of hardware'
line;"a particular kind of product. 'a nice line of shoes'"
export;"goods or services sold to a foreign country""makes symbols (which should be a symbol or list of symbols) accessible as external symbols in package (which defaults to *package*), and returns t."
feature;an article of merchandise that is displayed or advertised more than other articles
consignment;goods carried by a large vehicle
goods;"articles of commerce"
loading;goods carried by a large vehicle
irregular;merchandise that has imperfections. usually sold at a reduced price without the brand name
yard goods;fabrics sold by the yard
entrant;"a commodity that enters competition with established merchandise. 'a well publicized entrant is the pocket computer'"
drawing card;a featured article of merchandise sold at a loss in order to draw customers
software package;a computer program that is offered for sale
leader;a featured article of merchandise sold at a loss in order to draw customers
loss leader;a featured article of merchandise sold at a loss in order to draw customers
product line;"a particular kind of product. 'a nice line of shoes'"
refill;a commercial product that refills a container with its appropriate contents. 'he got a refill for his ball-point pen' or 'he got a refill for his notebook'
contraband;goods whose importation or exportation or possession is prohibited by law
freight;goods carried by a large vehicle
product;"commodities offered for sale. 'good business depends on having good merchandise'. 'that store offers a variety of products'"
release;something issued for sale or public showing (especially a record or film). 'a new release from the london symphony orchestra'
shlock;(slang) merchandise that is shoddy or inferior
stock;the merchandise that a shop has on hand. 'they carried a vast inventory of hardware'
