pachytene;the third stage of the prophase of meiosis
atavism;a reappearance of an earlier characteristic
fall;a sudden drop from an upright position. 'he had a nasty spill on the ice'
advent;(christian theology) the reappearance of jesus as judge for the last judgment
finish;the absolute defeat and death of persons on one side of a conflict. 'it was a fight to the finish'. 'he will be the finish of me'
resonance;a vibration of large amplitude produced by a relatively small vibration near the same frequency of vibration as the natural frequency of the resonating system
rarefaction;a decrease in the density of something. 'a sound wave causes periodic rarefactions in its medium'
conversion;an event that results in a transformation
heartbeat;the rhythmic contraction and expansion of the arteries with each beat of the heart. 'he could feel the beat of her heart'
convergence;"the occurrence of two or more things coming together"
apogee;a final climactic stage. 'their achievements stand as a culmination of centuries of development'
bane;something causes misery or death. 'the bane of my life'
phenomenon;a remarkable development
portent;a sign of something about to happen. 'he looked for an omen before going into battle'
injury;a casualty to military personnel resulting from combat
mischance;an instance of misfortune
sequence;several repetitions of a melodic phrase in different keys
tragedy;an event resulting in great loss and misfortune. 'the whole city was affected by the irremediable calamity'. 'the earthquake was a disaster'
happy event;(informal) the live birth of a child
manifestation;a clear appearance. 'a manifestation of great emotion'
pulsation;the rhythmic contraction and expansion of the arteries with each beat of the heart. 'he could feel the beat of her heart'
death;the event of dying or departure from life: 'her death came as a terrible shock'. 'upon your decease the capital will pass to your grandchildren'
eclipse;one celestial body obscures another
static;a crackling or hissing noise cause by electrical interference
play;a weak and tremulous light. 'the shimmer of colors on iridescent feathers'. 'the play of light on the water'
stand;an interruption of normal activity
warpath;a course leading to warfare or battle
close;the ending of a contest (as a race). 'it was an exciting finish'. 'i didn't stay for the close of the tournament'
scourge;something causes misery or death. 'the bane of my life'
flap;the motion made by flapping up and down
mutation;the process or event of mutating
difference;a variation that deviates from the standard or norm. 'the deviation from the mean'
preliminary;"something that serves as a preceding event or introduces what follows. 'training is a necessary preliminary to employment'. 'drinks were the overture to dinner'"
discomfit;a defeat in battle
short circuit;electrical circuit is overloaded
shear;(physics) a deformation of an object in which parallel planes remain parallel but are shifted in a direction parallel to themselves. 'the shear changed the quadrilateral into a parallelogram'
embolism;occlusion of a blood vessel by an embolus (a loose clot or air bubble or other particle)
migration;the periodic passage from one region to another for feeding or breeding
split decision;a boxing decision in which the judges are not unanimous
wave shape;the shape of a wave illustrated graphically by plotting the values of the period quantity against time
algorithmic program;a precise rule (or set of rules) specifying how to solve some problem
pulsing;(electronics) a sharp transient wave in the normal electrical state (or a series of such transients). 'the pulsations seemed to be coming from a star'
destruction;an event that destroys something
hiatus;an interruption in the intensity or amount of something
ravage;(usually plural) a destructive action. 'the ravages of time'
background signal;extraneous signals that can be confused with the phenomenon to be observed or measured. 'they got a bad connection and could hardly hear one another over the background signals'
slack tide;the occurrence of relatively still water at the turn of the (low) tide
menstrual cycle;a recurring cycle (beginning at menarche and ending at menopause) in which the endometrial lining of the uterus prepares for pregnancy. if pregnancy does not occur the lining is shed at menstruation. 'the average menstrual cycle is 28 days'
training;the result of good upbringing (especially knowledge of correct social behavior). 'a woman of breeding and refinement'
fate;"an event (or course of events) that will inevitably happen in the future"
rebirth;the revival of learning and culture
slack water;the occurrence of relatively still water at the turn of the (low) tide
end;the concluding part of an event or occurrence: 'the end was exciting'. 'i had to miss the last of the movie'
redundancy;repetition of an act needlessly
thrashing;a sound defeat
flesh wound;a wound that does not damage important internal organs or shatter any bones
wrack;the destruction or collapse of something. 'wrack and ruin'
debacle;a sudden and violent collapse
nonevent;"an anticipated event that turns out to be far less significant than was expected"
grand slam;winning all of the tricks in a hand of bridge
air embolism;obstruction of the circulatory system caused by an air bubble as e.g. accidentally during surgery or hypodermic injection or as a complication from scuba diving
metarule;a rule that describes how other rules should be used (as in ai)
stroke;a sudden loss of consciousness resulting when the rupture or occlusion of a blood vessel leads to oxygen lack in the brain
runaway;an easy victory
preservation;an occurrence of improvement by virtue of preventing loss or injury or other change
standing wave;a wave (as a sound wave in a chamber or an electromagnetic wave in a transmission line) in which the ratio of its instantaneous amplitude at one point to that at any other point does not vary with time
boom;"a sudden happening that brings very good fortune"
conjunction;(astronomy) apparent meeting or passing of two or more celestial bodies in the same degree of the zodiac
embarrassment;some event that causes someone to be embarrassed. 'the outcome of the vote was an embarrassment for the liberals'
disturbance;electrical or acoustic activity that can disturb communication
landslide;an overwhelming electoral victory. 'roosevelt defeated hoover in a landslide'
heuristic rule;a commonsense rule (or set of rules) intended to increase the probability of solving some problem
malfunction;a failure to function normally
equipment casualty;loss of military equipment
mishap;an instance of misfortune
leptotene;the first stage of the prophase of meiosis
transition;an event that results in a transformation
suspension;an interruption in the intensity or amount of something
gravitation wave;(physics) a wave that is hypothesized to propagate gravity and to travel at the speed of light
release;euphemistic expressions for death. 'thousands mourned his passing'
disruption;an event that results in a displacement or discontinuity
expense;a detriment or sacrifice. 'at the expense of'
pileup;multiple collisions of vehicles
visitation;an annoying or frustrating event. 'his mother-in-law's visits were a great trial for him'. 'life is full of tribulations'. 'a visitation of the plague'
materialization;an appearance in bodily form (as of a ghost)
even chance;an unpredictable phenomenon. 'it's a toss-up whether he will win or lose'
cerebral thrombosis;a blood clot in a cerebral artery or vein
operational damage;loss of military equipment in field operations
atmospherics;a crackling or hissing noise cause by electrical interference
low water;the lowest (farthest) ebb of the tide
stage;"any distinct time period in a sequence of events. 'we are in a transitional stage in which many former ideas must be revised or rejected'"
hell;a cause of difficulty and suffering. 'war is hell'. 'go to blazes'
force majeure;a natural and unavoidable catastrophe that interrupts the expected course of events. 'he discovered that his house was not insured against acts of god'
deformation;alteration in the shape or dimensions of an object as a result of the application of stress to it
turn of events;an unforeseen development. 'events suddenly took an awkward turn'
crash;(computer science) an event that causes a computer system to become inoperative. 'the crash occurred during a thunderstorm and the system has been down ever since'
enfeeblement;serious weakening and loss of energy
heart attack;a sudden severe instance of abnormal heart function
mishap;an unpredictable outcome that is unfortunate. 'if i didn't have bad luck i wouldn't have any luck at all'
alteration;"an event that occurs when something passes from one state or phase to another: 'the change was intended to increase sales'. 'this storm is certainly a change for the worse'"
switch;an event in which one thing is substituted for another
just deserts;an outcome in which virtue triumphs over vice (often ironically)
goldmine;"a sudden happening that brings very good fortune"
variance;an event that departs from expectations
surcease;a stopping. 'a cessation of the thunder'
blessed event;(informal) the live birth of a child
telophase;the final stage of mitosis
deal;the type of treatment received (especially as the result of an agreement). 'he got a good deal on his car'
foregone conclusion;an inevitable event
wonder;"something that causes feelings of wonder. 'the wonders of modern science'"
chapter;a distinct period in history or in a person's life. 'the industrial revolution opened a new chapter in british history'. 'the divorce was an ugly chapter in their relationship'
path;a course of conduct. 'the path of virtue'. 'we went our separate ways'. 'our paths in life led us apart'. 'genius usually follows a revolutionary path'
ramification;a development that complicates a situation. 'the court's decision had many unforeseen ramifications'
chance event;"anything that happens by chance without an apparent cause"
adversity;a stroke of ill fortune. a calamitous event: 'a period marked by adversities'
separation;coming apart
rule;"(mathematics) a standard procedure for solving a class of problems. 'he determined the upper bound with descartes' rule of signs'. 'he gave us a general formula for attacking polynomials'"
loosening;an occurrence of control or strength weakening. 'the relaxation of requirements': 'the loosening of his grip'. 'the slackening of the wind'
thrombosis;the formation or presence of a thrombus (a clot of coagulated blood attached at the site of its formation)
epidemic;a widespread outbreak of an infectious disease. many people are infected at the same time
wages;a recompense for worthy acts or retribution for wrongdoing. 'the wages of sin is death'. 'virtue is its own reward'
break;an unexpected piece of good luck. 'he finally got his big break'
curse;something causes misery or death. 'the bane of my life'
missfire;a failure to hit (or meet or find etc)
destiny;"an event (or course of events) that will inevitably happen in the future"
shift;a qualitative change
strain;(physics) deformation of a physical body under the action of applied forces
mimicry;the resemblance of an animal species to another species or to natural objects. provides concealment and protection from predators
modification;"an event that occurs when something passes from one state or phase to another: 'the change was intended to increase sales'. 'this storm is certainly a change for the worse'"
business cycle;recurring fluctuations in economic activity consisting of recession and recovery and growth and decline
leap;an abrupt transition. 'a successful leap from college to the major leagues'
waveform;the shape of a wave illustrated graphically by plotting the values of the period quantity against time
trouble;"an event causing distress or pain. 'what is the trouble?'. 'heart trouble'"
trial;an annoying or frustrating event. 'his mother-in-law's visits were a great trial for him'. 'life is full of tribulations'. 'a visitation of the plague'
anticlimax;a disappointing decline after ad previous rise: 'the anticlimax of a brilliant career'
taste;a brief experience of something. 'he got a taste of life on the wild side'. 'she enjoyed her brief taste of independence'
blighty wound;a wound that would cause an english soldier to be sent home from service abroad
rupture;a personal or social separation (as between opposing factions). 'they hoped to avoid a break in relations'
miscreation;something abnormal or anomalous
violent death;an event that causes someone to die
vicissitude;a variation in circumstances or fortune at different times in your life or in the development of something. 'the project was subject to the usual vicissitudes of exploratory research'
background radiation;radiation coming from sources other than those being observed
transmigration;the passing of a soul into another body after death
background;a person's social heritage: previous experience or training. 'he is a lawyer with a sports background'
heuristic;a commonsense rule (or set of rules) intended to increase the probability of solving some problem
warp;a moral or mental distortion
outbreak;"a sudden violent spontaneous occurrence of an undesirable condition"
meeting;a casual or unexpected convergence. 'he still remembers their meeting in paris'. 'there was a brief encounter in the hallway'
implosion;a sudden inward collapse. 'the implosion of a light bulb'
might have been;"an event that could have occurred but never did"
miracle;"a marvellous event manifesting a supernatural act of god"
whipping;a sound defeat
reduplication;an act of duplicating
closing curtain;the concluding part of any performance
decision;the outcome of a game or contest: 'the team dropped three decisions in a row'
rearing;the properties acquired as a consequence of the way you were treated as a child
omen;a sign of something about to happen. 'he looked for an omen before going into battle'
leap;a sudden and decisive increase. 'a jump in attendance'
aeroembolism;obstruction of the circulatory system caused by an air bubble as e.g. accidentally during surgery or hypodermic injection or as a complication from scuba diving
revivification;the coming again into activity and prominence
concomitant;"an event or situation that happens at the same time as or in connection with another"
annular eclipse;only a thin outer disk of the sun can be seen
culmination;a final climactic stage. 'their achievements stand as a culmination of centuries of development'
way;a course of conduct. 'the path of virtue'. 'we went our separate ways'. 'our paths in life led us apart'. 'genius usually follows a revolutionary path'
payoff;a recompense for worthy acts or retribution for wrongdoing. 'the wages of sin is death'. 'virtue is its own reward'
rack;the destruction or collapse of something. 'wrack and ruin'
warping;a moral or mental distortion
atrophy;any weakening or degeneration (especially through lack of use)
rematch;something (especially a game) that is played again
pity;an unfortunate development. 'it's a pity he couldn't do it'
sublimation;(chemistry) a change directly from the solid to the gaseous state without becoming liquid
onslaught;a sudden and severe onset of trouble
deviation;a variation that deviates from the standard or norm. 'the deviation from the mean'
faint;a spontaneous loss of consciousness caused by insufficient blood to the brain
sine wave;a wave whose waveform resembles a sine curve
spill;a sudden drop from an upright position. 'he had a nasty spill on the ice'
milk leg;painful thrombosis of the femoral vein in the leg following childbirth
prelude;"something that serves as a preceding event or introduces what follows. 'training is a necessary preliminary to employment'. 'drinks were the overture to dinner'"
ruin;an event that results in destruction
corollary;a practical consequence that follows naturally. 'blind jealousy is a frequent corollary of passionate love'
salvo;an outburst resembling the discharge of firearms or the release of bombs
transient;(physics) a short-lived oscillation in a system caused by a sudden change of voltage or current or load
prolongation;the act of prolonging something. 'there was an indefinite prolongation of the peace talks'
concretion;an increase in the density of something
opening night;the first performance (as of a theatrical production). 'the opening received good critical reviews'
copying;an act of copying
overstrain;too much strain
fluctuation;a wave motion. 'the fluctuations of the sea'
departure;euphemistic expressions for death. 'thousands mourned his passing'
dramatic event;an episode that is turbulent or highly emotional
clonus;convulsion characterized by alternating contractions and relaxations
fall;when a wrestler's shoulders are forced to the mat
decease;the event of dying or departure from life: 'her death came as a terrible shock'. 'upon your decease the capital will pass to your grandchildren'
low tide;the lowest (farthest) ebb of the tide
drama;an episode that is turbulent or highly emotional
nativity;the event of being born. 'they celebrated the birth of their first child'
solar eclipse;the moon interrupts light from the sun
menarche;the first occurrence of menstruation in a woman
superior conjunction;(astronomy) the alignment of the earth and a planet on the opposite side of the sun
nascency;the event of being born. 'they celebrated the birth of their first child'
downfall;a sudden decline in strength or number or importance. 'the fall of the house of hapsburg'
outcome;the situation that exists when something ends. 'he listened for the results on the radio'
contraction;the process or result of becoming smaller or pressed together: 'the contraction of a gas on cooling'
manna from heaven;"a sudden happening that brings very good fortune"
fluttering;the motion made by flapping up and down
sweep;winning all or all but one of the tricks in bridge
human death;a death resulting from an accident or a disaster. 'a decrease in the number of automobile fatalities'
accidental injury;an accident that results in physical damage or hurt
expiration;euphemistic expressions for death. 'thousands mourned his passing'
milestone;a significant event in your life (or in a project)
rift;a personal or social separation (as between opposing factions). 'they hoped to avoid a break in relations'
reprieve;an interruption in the intensity or amount of something
coronary;obstruction of blood flow in a coronary artery by a blood clot (thrombus)
shoo in;an easy victory
victory;a successful ending of a struggle or contest. 'the general always gets credit for his army's victory'. 'the agreement was a triumph for common sense'
luteal phase;the second half of the menstrual cycle after ovulation. the corpus luteum secretes progesterone which prepares the endometrium for the implantation of an embryo. if fertilization does not occur then menstrual flow begins
fit;a sudden uncontrollable attack. 'a paroxysm of giggling'. 'a fit of coughing'
fatal accident;an accident that causes someone to die
augury;an event that is experienced as indicating important things to come. 'he hoped it was an augury'. 'it was a sign from god'
apocalypse;a cosmic cataclysm in which god destroys the ruling powers of evil
stunner;an unexpected and amazing event: 'the stunner was what happened on saturday'
operational casualty;loss of military equipment in field operations
epilepsia major;a seizure (or a type of epilepsy characterized by such seizures) during which the patient becomes unconscious and has convulsions over the entire body
affliction;a cause of great suffering and distress
bomb;an event that fails badly or is totally ineffectual. 'the first experiment was a real turkey'. 'the meeting was a dud as far as new business was concerned'
auspice;a favorable omen
repeating;the act of repeating
blaze;a cause of difficulty and suffering. 'war is hell'. 'go to blazes'
word of god;a manifestation of the mind and will of god
systole;the contraction of the chambers of the heart (especially the ventricles) to drive blood into the aorta and pulmonary artery
battle damage;loss of military equipment in battle
waxing;a gradual increase in magnitude or extent. 'the waxing of the moon'
prophase;the first stage of meiosis
passing;euphemistic expressions for death. 'thousands mourned his passing'
trip;an accidental misstep threatening (or causing) a fall. 'he blamed his slip on the ice'. 'the jolt caused many slips and a few spills'
drubbing;a sound defeat
bombshell;a shocking surprise. 'news of the attack came like a bombshell'
takedown;(amateur wrestling) being brought to the mat from a standing position. 'a takedown counts two points'
receding;a slow or gradual disappearance
twinkle;a rapid change in brightness
flutter;the motion made by flapping up and down
act of god;a natural and unavoidable catastrophe that interrupts the expected course of events. 'he discovered that his house was not insured against acts of god'
total eclipse;an eclipse as seen from a place where the eclipsed body is completely obscured
departure;a variation that deviates from the standard or norm. 'the deviation from the mean'
little slam;winning all but one of the tricks in a hand of bridge
throwback;a reappearance of an earlier characteristic
perseverance;the act of persevering
debilitation;serious weakening and loss of energy
renascence;the revival of learning and culture
attack;a sudden occurrence of an uncontrollable condition. 'an attack of diarrhea'
climax;the highest point of anything conceived of as growing or developing or unfolding: 'the climax of the artist's career'. 'in the flood tide of his success'
revival;the coming again into activity and prominence
education;the result of good upbringing (especially knowledge of correct social behavior). 'a woman of breeding and refinement'
break;the occurrence of breaking. 'the break in the dam threatened the valley'
bust;a complete failure. 'the play was a dismal flop'
flood tide;the highest point of anything conceived of as growing or developing or unfolding: 'the climax of the artist's career'. 'in the flood tide of his success'
scene;an incident (real or imaginary). 'their parting was a sad scene'
fluke;a stroke of luck
seizure;a sudden occurrence (or recurrence) of a disease. 'he suffered an epileptic seizure'
start off;a start given to contestants. 'i was there with my parents at the kickoff'
doomsday;an unpleasant or disastrous destiny. 'everyone was aware of the approaching doom but was helpless to avoid it'
replication;the act of reproducing
time;a person's experience on a particular occasion. 'he had a time holding back the tears' or 'they had a good time together'
loss;the experience of losing a loved one. 'he sympathized on the loss of their grandfather'
beat;the rhythmic contraction and expansion of the arteries with each beat of the heart. 'he could feel the beat of her heart'
good luck;an unexpected piece of good luck. 'he finally got his big break'
secretory phase;the second half of the menstrual cycle after ovulation. the corpus luteum secretes progesterone which prepares the endometrium for the implantation of an embryo. if fertilization does not occur then menstrual flow begins
change;"an event that occurs when something passes from one state or phase to another: 'the change was intended to increase sales'. 'this storm is certainly a change for the worse'"
apoplexy;a sudden loss of consciousness resulting when the rupture or occlusion of a blood vessel leads to oxygen lack in the brain
gene mutation;a mutation due to an intramolecular reorganization of a gene
misfire;an explosion fails to occur
fatality;a death resulting from an accident or a disaster. 'a decrease in the number of automobile fatalities'
square deal;fair treatment
torment;a severe affliction
overture;"something that serves as a preceding event or introduces what follows. 'training is a necessary preliminary to employment'. 'drinks were the overture to dinner'"
periodic event;"an event that recurs at intervals"
impairment;the occurrence of a change for the worse
pulmonary embolism;blockage of the pulmonary artery by foreign matter or by a blood clot
fall;a sudden decline in strength or number or importance. 'the fall of the house of hapsburg'
primrose path;a life of ease and pleasure
obliteration;the complete destruction of every trace of something
formula;"(mathematics) a standard procedure for solving a class of problems. 'he determined the upper bound with descartes' rule of signs'. 'he gave us a general formula for attacking polynomials'"
abortion;failure of a plan
waterloo;a final crushing defeat
debacle;a sound defeat
second coming;(christian theology) the reappearance of jesus as judge for the last judgment
pandemic;an epidemic that is geographically widespread. occurring throughout a region or even throughout the world
mutilation;an injury that deprives you of a limb or other important body part
dwindling away;a becoming gradually less. 'there is no greater sadness that the dwindling away of a family'
tide;the periodic rise and fall of the sea level under the gravitational pull of the moon
betterment;a change for the better. progress in development
perseveration;the act of persevering
deformation;a change for the worse
respite;an interruption in the intensity or amount of something
trade cycle;recurring fluctuations in economic activity consisting of recession and recovery and growth and decline
setback;"an unfortunate happening that hinders of impedes. something that is thwarting or frustrating"
halt;the event of something ending. 'it came to a stop at the bottom of the hill'
revolution;a drastic and far-reaching change in ways of thinking and behaving. 'the industrial revolution was also a cultural revolution'
telophase;the final stage of meiosis when the chromosomes move toward opposite ends of the nuclear spindle
ravel;a row of unravelled stitches. 'she got a run in her stocking'
emulation;effort to equal or surpass another
ictus;a sudden occurrence (or recurrence) of a disease. 'he suffered an epileptic seizure'
allomerism;(chemistry) variability in chemical composition without variation in crystalline form
cardiac cycle;the complete cycle of events in the heart from the beginning of one heart beat to the beginning of the next. an electrical impulse in conducted through the heart muscle that constricts the atria which is followed by constriction of the ventricles. 'the cardiac cycle can be shown on an electrocardiogram'
licking;an unsuccessful ending
atmospheric static;a crackling or hissing noise cause by electrical interference
exigency;a sudden unforeseen crisis (usually involving danger) that requires immediate action. 'he never knew what to do in an emergency'
background;relatively unimportant or inconspicuous accompanying situation: 'when the rain came he could hear the sound of thunder in the background'
adrenarche;the increase in activity of the adrenal glands just before puberty
augmentation;the amount by which something increases
phase;"any distinct time period in a sequence of events. 'we are in a transitional stage in which many former ideas must be revised or rejected'"
infection;an incident is which an infectious disease is transmitted
swoon;a spontaneous loss of consciousness caused by insufficient blood to the brain
remission;an abatement in the manifestations of a disease. 'his cancer is in remission'
radio noise;static at radio wavelengths
power failure;supply of power fails
materialisation;an appearance in bodily form (as of a ghost)
bonanza;"a sudden happening that brings very good fortune"
inferior conjunction;(astronomy) the alignment of the earth and a planet on the same side of the sun
relaxation;an occurrence of control or strength weakening. 'the relaxation of requirements': 'the loosening of his grip'. 'the slackening of the wind'
fortuity;"anything that happens by chance without an apparent cause"
good fortune;a stroke of luck
cataclysm;an event resulting in great loss and misfortune. 'the whole city was affected by the irremediable calamity'. 'the earthquake was a disaster'
dud;an explosion fails to occur
combat casualty;loss of military equipment in battle
last;the concluding part of an event or occurrence: 'the end was exciting'. 'i had to miss the last of the movie'
devastation;an event that results in total destruction
recurrence;happening again (especially at regular intervals). 'the return of spring'
damage;the occurrence of a change for the worse
white leg;painful thrombosis of the femoral vein in the leg following childbirth
cause celebre;any incident that attracts great public attention
direct tide;the occurrence of high tide on one side of the earth coinciding with high tide on the opposite side
inevitable accident;a natural and unavoidable catastrophe that interrupts the expected course of events. 'he discovered that his house was not insured against acts of god'
fluctuation;an instance of change. the rate or magnitude of change
metaphase;the second stage of mitosis
knock;a bad experience. 'the school of hard knocks'
high tide;the tide when the water is highest
detriment;a damage or loss
relief;a change for the better
disembarrassment;something that extricates you from embarrassment
delivery;the event of giving birth. 'she had a difficult delivery'
miss;a failure to hit (or meet or find etc)
road to damascus;a sudden turning point in a person's life (similar to the sudden conversion of the apostle paul on the road from jerusalem to damascus of arrest christians)
conservation;an occurrence of improvement by virtue of preventing loss or injury or other change
repetition;an event that repeats. 'the events today were a repeat of yesterday's'
lessening;a change downward. 'there was a sharp drop-off in sales'
damage;loss of military equipment
good luck;a stroke of luck
turn;an unforeseen development. 'events suddenly took an awkward turn'
martyrdom;death that is imposed because of the person's adherence of a religious faith or cause
convulsion;violent uncontrollable contractions of muscles
accident;a mishap. especially one causing injury or death
substitution;an event in which one thing is substituted for another
severance;a personal or social separation (as between opposing factions). 'they hoped to avoid a break in relations'
recrudescence;a return of something after a period of abatement. 'a recrudescence of racism'
fair deal;fair treatment
taking apart;the removal of limbs. being cut to pieces
discrepancy;an event that departs from expectations
drop off;a change downward. 'there was a sharp drop-off in sales'
blow;"an unfortunate happening that hinders of impedes. something that is thwarting or frustrating"
perpetuation;the act of prolonging something. 'there was an indefinite prolongation of the peace talks'
adjustment;making or becoming suitable. adjusting to circumstances
ruination;an event that results in destruction
green revolution;the introduction of pesticides and high-yield grains and better management which greatly increased agricultural productivity
straight and narrow;the way of proper and honest behavior. 'he taught his children to keep strictly to the straight and narrow'
wound;a casualty to military personnel resulting from combat
result;the situation that exists when something ends. 'he listened for the results on the radio'
transmission;an incident is which an infectious disease is transmitted
shipwreck;an accident that destroys a ship at sea
highwater;the tide when the water is highest
shrinking;process or result of becoming less or smaller: 'the material lost 2 inches per yard in shrinkage'
algorithm;a precise rule (or set of rules) specifying how to solve some problem
ending;"an event whose occurrence ends something. 'his death marked the ending of an era'"
cycle;"an interval during which a recurring sequence of events occurs. 'the neverending cycle of the seasons'"an interval during which a recurring sequence of events occurs. 'the neverending cycle of the seasons'
flopping;the motion made by flapping up and down
sound reproduction;the reproduction of sound
day of reckoning;an unpleasant or disastrous destiny. 'everyone was aware of the approaching doom but was helpless to avoid it'
diurnal variation;fluctuations that occur during each day
fadeout;a gradual temporary loss of a transmitted signal due to electrical disturbances
dud;an event that fails badly or is totally ineffectual. 'the first experiment was a real turkey'. 'the meeting was a dud as far as new business was concerned'
accompaniment;"an event or situation that happens at the same time as or in connection with another"
renaissance;the revival of learning and culture
razing;the event of a structure being completely demolished and leveled
duplication;the act of duplicating something. 'this kind of duplication is wasteful'
development;a recent event that has some relevance for the present situation. 'recent developments in iraq'. 'what a revolting development!'
disaster;an event resulting in great loss and misfortune. 'the whole city was affected by the irremediable calamity'. 'the earthquake was a disaster'
ground noise;extraneous noise contaminating sound measurements that cannot be separated from the desired signal
coincidence;an event that might have been arranged although it was really accidental
z;the ending of a series or sequence. 'the alpha and the omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end'--revelation
luck;an unknown and unpredictable phenomenon that causes an event to result one way rather than another. 'bad luck caused his downfall'. 'it was a chance meeting'
concentration;increase in density
discomfiture;a defeat in battle
stop;the event of something ending. 'it came to a stop at the bottom of the hill'
round;"an interval during which a recurring sequence of events occurs. 'the neverending cycle of the seasons'"an interval during which a recurring sequence of events occurs. 'the neverending cycle of the seasons'
heuristic program;a commonsense rule (or set of rules) intended to increase the probability of solving some problem
consequence;the outcome of an event especially as relative to an individual. 'that result is of no consequence'
epiphany;a divine manifestation
phase of cell division;a stage in meiosis or mitosis
train;a series of consequences wrought by an event. 'it led to a train of disasters'
rhythm;"an interval during which a recurring sequence of events occurs. 'the neverending cycle of the seasons'"an interval during which a recurring sequence of events occurs. 'the neverending cycle of the seasons'
offspring;something that comes into existence as a result. 'industrialism prepared the way for acceptance of the french revolution's various socialistic offspring'. 'this skyscraper is the solid materialization of his efforts'
capsizing;(nautical) the event of a boat accidentally turning over in the water
flare up;"a sudden violent happening. 'an outburst of heavy rain'. 'a burst of lightning'"
flashing;a short vivid experience. 'a flash of emotion swept over him'. 'the flashings of pain were a warning'
hysterics;an attack of hysteria
unavoidable casualty;a natural and unavoidable catastrophe that interrupts the expected course of events. 'he discovered that his house was not insured against acts of god'
birth;the event of being born. 'they celebrated the birth of their first child'
brake failure;brakes fail to stop a vehicle
straits;a difficult juncture. 'a pretty pass'. 'matters came to a head yesterday'
flashback;an unexpected but vivid recurrence of a past experience (especially a recurrence of the effects of an hallucinogenic drug taken much earlier)
heritage;"any attribute that passes from parent to offspring"
slackening;an occurrence of control or strength weakening. 'the relaxation of requirements': 'the loosening of his grip'. 'the slackening of the wind'
desolation;an event that results in total destruction
smash up;a serious collision (especially of motor vehicles)
reappearance;appearing again
dawn;the earliest period: 'the dawn of civilization'. 'the morning of the world'
idyll;an episode of such pastoral or romantic charm as to qualify as the subject of a poetic idyll
abatement;an interruption in the intensity or amount of something
point mutation;a mutation due to an intramolecular reorganization of a gene
war cloud;an ominous sign that war threatens
calamity;an event resulting in great loss and misfortune. 'the whole city was affected by the irremediable calamity'. 'the earthquake was a disaster'
exit;euphemistic expressions for death. 'thousands mourned his passing'
exhaustion;serious weakening and loss of energy
playback;the act of reproducing recorded sound. 'he was allowed to hear the playback of his testimony'
diplotene;the fourth stage of the prophase of meiosis
send off;a start given to contestants. 'i was there with my parents at the kickoff'
fender bender;a collision between motor vehicles that produces minor damage
headroom;the capacity of a system to reproduce loud sounds without distortion
recurrent event;"an event that recurs at intervals"
ladder;a row of unravelled stitches. 'she got a run in her stocking'
waning;a gradual decrease in magnitude or extent. 'the waning of his enthusiasm was obvious'. 'the waxing and waning of the moon'
outrage;a disgraceful event
reproduction;the act of reproducing
cycle;a periodically repeated sequence of events: 'a cycle of reprisal and retaliation'
reversal;"an unfortunate happening that hinders of impedes. something that is thwarting or frustrating"
scandal;a disgraceful event
eye opener;something surprising and revealing
improvement;a change for the better. progress in development
walloping;a sound defeat
rout;a defeat in battle
reincarnation;a second or new birth
air wave;a sound wave that is transmitted via air
miracle;"any amazing or wonderful occurrence"
wave form;the shape of a wave illustrated graphically by plotting the values of the period quantity against time
eventuality;"a possible event or occurrence or result"
sorting algorithm;an algorithm for sort a list
happy chance;an unexpected piece of good luck. 'he finally got his big break'
epileptic seizure;convulsions accompanied by impaired consciousness
luck;an unknown and unpredictable phenomenon that leads to a favorable outcome. 'it was my good luck to be there'. 'they say luck is a lady'. 'it was as if fortune guided his hand'
collision;an accident resulting from violent impact of a moving object. 'three passengers were killed in the collision'. 'the collision of the two ships resulted in a serious oil spill'
demolition;an event that destroys something
sunset;the daily event of the sun sinking below the horizon
downfall;failure that results in a loss of position or reputation
grand mal;a seizure (or a type of epilepsy characterized by such seizures) during which the patient becomes unconscious and has convulsions over the entire body
thunderclap;a shocking surprise. 'news of the attack came like a bombshell'
chance;an unknown and unpredictable phenomenon that causes an event to result one way rather than another. 'bad luck caused his downfall'. 'it was a chance meeting'
marvel;"something that causes feelings of wonder. 'the wonders of modern science'"
martyrdom;any experience that causes intense suffering
death knell;an omen of death or destruction
permutation;an event in which one thing is substituted for another
abidance;the act of abiding (enduring without yielding)
nemesis;something causes misery or death. 'the bane of my life'
morning;the earliest period: 'the dawn of civilization'. 'the morning of the world'
injury;an accident that results in physical damage or hurt
lengthening;the act of prolonging something. 'there was an indefinite prolongation of the peace talks'
flop;a complete failure. 'the play was a dismal flop'
abiotrophy;a loss of vitality and a degeneration of cells and tissues not due to any apparent injury
alignment;(astronomy) apparent meeting or passing of two or more celestial bodies in the same degree of the zodiac
prognostic;a sign of something about to happen. 'he looked for an omen before going into battle'
transition;a change from one place or state or subject or stage to another
reverse;"an unfortunate happening that hinders of impedes. something that is thwarting or frustrating"
daily variation;fluctuations that occur between one day and the next
detachment;coming apart
throbbing;an instance of rapid strong pulsation (of the heart). 'he felt a throbbing in his head'
breach;a personal or social separation (as between opposing factions). 'they hoped to avoid a break in relations'
scintillation;a rapid change in brightness
live birth;the birth of a living fetus
show;(in horse racing) a finish in third place
fitting;making or becoming suitable. adjusting to circumstances
chapter;a series of related events forming an episode. 'a chapter of disasters'
tie up;an interruption of normal activity
fading away;gradually diminishing in brightness or loudness or strength
surface noise;noise produced by the friction of the stylus of a record player moving over the rotating record
slip;an accidental misstep threatening (or causing) a fall. 'he blamed his slip on the ice'. 'the jolt caused many slips and a few spills'
fading;weakening in force or intensity: 'attenuation in the volume of the sound'
miscarriage;failure of a plan
sinking;a slow fall or decline (as for lack of strength). 'after several hours of sinking an unexpected rally rescued the market'. 'he could not control the sinking of his legs'
second advent;(christian theology) the reappearance of jesus as judge for the last judgment
imitation;the act of imitating
short;electrical circuit is overloaded
tin pest;the transformation of ordinary white tin into powdery gray tin a very cold temperatures
annihilation;total destruction. 'bomb tests resulted in the annihilation of the atoll'
degeneration;passing from a more complex to a simpler biological form
contingency;"a possible event or occurrence or result"
presage;a sign of something about to happen. 'he looked for an omen before going into battle'
sideshow;a subordinate incident of little importance relative to the main event. 'instruction is not an educational sideshow'
noise;electrical or acoustic activity that can disturb communication
trouncing;a sound defeat
compression;an increase in the density of something
subsequence;something that follows something else
materialization;something that comes into existence as a result. 'industrialism prepared the way for acceptance of the french revolution's various socialistic offspring'. 'this skyscraper is the solid materialization of his efforts'
news event;"a newsworthy event"
dismemberment;the removal of limbs. being cut to pieces
kismet;(islamic) the will of allah
opener;the first event in a series: 'she played chopin for her opener'. 'the season's opener was a game agains the yankees'
high fidelity;the reproduction of sound with little or no distortion
personnel casualty;military personnel lost by death or capture
cessation;a stopping. 'a cessation of the thunder'
pursuance;the continuance of something begun with a view to its completion
karma;(hinduism and buddhism) the effects of a person's actions that determine his destiny in his next incarnation
subsidence;an abatement in the manifestations of a disease. 'his cancer is in remission'
crisis;a crucial stage or turning point in the course of something. 'after the crisis the patient either dies or gets better'
tide;something that may increase or decrease (like the tides of the sea). 'a rising tide of popular interest'
accident;"anything that happens by chance without an apparent cause"
collapse;a mishap caused by something suddenly falling down or caving in
cerebrovascular accident;a sudden loss of consciousness resulting when the rupture or occlusion of a blood vessel leads to oxygen lack in the brain
crash;a serious accident (usually involving one or more vehicles). 'they are still investigating the crash of the twa plane'
strengthening;becoming stronger
sublimation;(psychology) modifying the natural expression of an impulse or instinct (especially a sexual one) to one that is socially acceptable
oncoming;the beginning or early stages. 'the onset of pneumonia'
shimmer;a weak and tremulous light. 'the shimmer of colors on iridescent feathers'. 'the play of light on the water'
crucifixion;the death of jesus on the cross after he was condemned by the jews as a false messiah
diastole;the widening of the chambers of the heart between two contractions when the chambers fill with blood
service break;a game won on the opponent's service
free living;a way of life given to easy indulgence of the appetites
elaboration;the result of improving something. 'he described a refinement of this technique'
jump;an abrupt transition. 'a successful leap from college to the major leagues'
partial eclipse;an eclipse in which the eclipsed body is only partially obscured
killing;an event that causes someone to die
way of life;a course of conduct. 'the path of virtue'. 'we went our separate ways'. 'our paths in life led us apart'. 'genius usually follows a revolutionary path'
head crash;(computer science) a crash of a read/write head in a hard disk drive (usually caused by contact of the head with the surface of the magnetic disk)
malformation;something abnormal or anomalous
pounding;an instance of rapid strong pulsation (of the heart). 'he felt a throbbing in his head'
experience;"an event as apprehended. 'a surprising experience'. 'that painful experience certainly got our attention'"
cycle;a single complete execution of a periodically repeated phenomenon: 'a year constitutes a cycle of the seasons'
flash;a short vivid experience. 'a flash of emotion swept over him'. 'the flashings of pain were a warning'
hi fi;the reproduction of sound with little or no distortion
loss of consciousness;the occurrence of a loss of the ability to perceive and respond
slaughter;a sound defeat
changeover;an event that results in a transformation
refinement;the result of improving something. 'he described a refinement of this technique'
hardship;something that causes or entails suffering: 'i cannot thinking it a hardship that more more indulgence is allowed to men than to women'- james boswell. 'the many hardships of frontier life'
attrition;a wearing down to weaken or destroy. 'a war of attrition'
pulse;(electronics) a sharp transient wave in the normal electrical state (or a series of such transients). 'the pulsations seemed to be coming from a star'
oscillation;(physics) a regular variation in value about a mean
compression;the process or result of becoming smaller or pressed together: 'the contraction of a gas on cooling'
sequel;something that follows something else
coronary thrombosis;obstruction of blood flow in a coronary artery by a blood clot (thrombus)
repeat;an event that repeats. 'the events today were a repeat of yesterday's'
complication;a development that complicates a situation. 'the court's decision had many unforeseen ramifications'
protraction;the act of prolonging something. 'there was an indefinite prolongation of the peace talks'
transformation;a qualitative change
finale;the concluding part of any performance
decrease;a change downward. 'there was a sharp drop-off in sales'
recovery;return to an original state. 'the recovery of the forest after the fire was surprisingly rapid'
background;extraneous signals that can be confused with the phenomenon to be observed or measured. 'they got a bad connection and could hardly hear one another over the background signals'
action replay;(television) showing again some action (especially sports action) that has been recorded on video tape
raw deal;unfair treatment
replacement;an event in which one thing is substituted for another
breeding;the result of good upbringing (especially knowledge of correct social behavior). 'a woman of breeding and refinement'
surprise;a sudden unexpected event
breech delivery;delivery of an infant whose feet appear first
ground swell;an obvious change of public opinion or political sentiment that occurs without leadership or overt expression. 'there was a ground swell of antiwar sentiment'
transposition;an event in which one thing is substituted for another
hap;an accidental happening. 'he recorded all the little haps and mishaps of his life'
renewal;the act of renewing
disintegration;total destruction. 'bomb tests resulted in the annihilation of the atoll'
jump;a sudden and decisive increase. 'a jump in attendance'
advance;a change for the better. progress in development
vision;a religious or mystical experience of a supernatural appearance. 'he had a vision of the virgin mary'
misfortune;unnecessary and unforeseen trouble
repetition;the act of repeating
curtain raising;the first performance (as of a theatrical production). 'the opening received good critical reviews'
stall;a malfunction in the flight of an aircraft in which there is a sudden loss of lift that results in a downward plunge. 'the plane went into a stall and i couldn't control it'
flood tide;the occurrence of incoming water (between a low tide and the following high tide)
wreck;an accident that destroys a ship at sea
fruit;the consequence of some effort or action. 'he lived long enough to see the fruit of his policies'
return;happening again (especially at regular intervals). 'the return of spring'
generalized seizure;a seizure (or a type of epilepsy characterized by such seizures) during which the patient becomes unconscious and has convulsions over the entire body
cva;a sudden loss of consciousness resulting when the rupture or occlusion of a blood vessel leads to oxygen lack in the brain
prophase;the first stage of mitosis
inevitable;an unavoidable event. 'don't argue with the inevitable'
revitalisation;the coming again into activity and prominence
foreboding;an unfavorable omen
impulse;(electronics) a sharp transient wave in the normal electrical state (or a series of such transients). 'the pulsations seemed to be coming from a star'
rebirth;a second or new birth
upbringing;properties acquired during a person's formative years
flapping;the motion made by flapping up and down
decision;(boxing) a victory won on points when no knockout has occurred: 'had little trouble in taking a unanimous decision over his opponent'
disappearance;"the event of passing out of sight"
encounter;a casual or unexpected convergence. 'he still remembers their meeting in paris'. 'there was a brief encounter in the hallway'
enervation;serious weakening and loss of energy
megadeath;the death of a million people. 'they calibrate the effects of atom bombs in megadeaths'
bad luck;an unpredictable outcome that is unfortunate. 'if i didn't have bad luck i wouldn't have any luck at all'
calvary;any experience that causes intense suffering
tin disease;the transformation of ordinary white tin into powdery gray tin a very cold temperatures
continuance;"the act of continuing or resuming an activity"
sound wave;(acoustics) a wave that transmits sound
slam;winning all or all but one of the tricks in bridge
gravity wave;(physics) a wave that is hypothesized to propagate gravity and to travel at the speed of light
wreck;a serious accident (usually involving one or more vehicles). 'they are still investigating the crash of the twa plane'
kismat;(islamic) the will of allah
thunderbolt;a shocking surprise. 'news of the attack came like a bombshell'
increase;a change resulting in an increase. 'the fare increase is scheduled for next month'
head;a difficult juncture. 'a pretty pass'. 'matters came to a head yesterday'
defeat;an unsuccessful ending
interference;electrical or acoustic activity that can disturb communication
conclusion;"an event whose occurrence ends something. 'his death marked the ending of an era'"
associate;any event that usually accompanies or is closely connected with another. 'first was the lightning and then its thunderous associate'
persistence;the act of persevering
breakdown;a cessation of normal operation. 'there was a power failure'
coronary occlusion;occlusion of a coronary artery caused either by progressive atherosclerosis or by a blood clot
lunar eclipse;the earth interrupts light shining on the moon
iteration;doing or saying again
prosecution;the continuance of something begun with a view to its completion
catastrophe;an event resulting in great loss and misfortune. 'the whole city was affected by the irremediable calamity'. 'the earthquake was a disaster'
outburst;"a sudden violent happening. 'an outburst of heavy rain'. 'a burst of lightning'"
driftage;the deviation (by a vessel or aircraft) from its intended course due to drifting
conjuncture;a critical combination of events or circumstances
fall of man;(old testament) in judeo-christian mythology--when adam and eve ate of the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil in the garden of eden god punished them by driving them out of the garden and into the world where they would be subject to sickness and pain and eventual death
casualty;a decrease of military personnel or equipment
loss;euphemistic expressions for death. 'thousands mourned his passing'
undulation;(physics) a progressive disturbance propagated without displacement of the medium itself
nurture;the properties acquired as a consequence of the way you were treated as a child
continuation;"the act of continuing or resuming an activity"
vanishing;a sudden or mysterious disappearance
falling out;a personal or social separation (as between opposing factions). 'they hoped to avoid a break in relations'
combat injury;a casualty to military personnel resulting from combat
tribulation;an annoying or frustrating event. 'his mother-in-law's visits were a great trial for him'. 'life is full of tribulations'. 'a visitation of the plague'
start;"the beginning of anything. 'it was off to a good start'"
rush;a sudden burst of activity. 'come back after the rush'. 'he joined the gold rush'
breech birth;delivery of an infant whose feet appear first
poetic justice;an outcome in which virtue triumphs over vice (often ironically)
sympathetic vibration;(physics) vibration produced by resonance
cataplasia;(biology) degenerative reversion of cells or tissue to a less differentiated or more primitive form
divergence;a variation that deviates from the standard or norm. 'the deviation from the mean'
raising;the properties acquired as a consequence of the way you were treated as a child
failure;"an event that does not accomplish its intended purpose"
landmark;an event marking a unique or important historical change or one on which important developments depend
blackout;the failure of electric power for a general region
tumble;a sudden drop from an upright position. 'he had a nasty spill on the ice'
incident;"a single distinct event"
shrinkage;process or result of becoming less or smaller: 'the material lost 2 inches per yard in shrinkage'
diakinesis;the final stage of the prophase of meiosis
replay;something (especially a game) that is played again
variation;an instance of change. the rate or magnitude of change
resuscitation;a revival of consciousness
finish;the ending of a contest (as a race). 'it was an exciting finish'. 'i didn't stay for the close of the tournament'
shame;an unfortunate development. 'it's a pity he couldn't do it'
sacrifice;personnel that are sacrificed (e.g., surrendered or lost in order to gain an objective)
omega;the ending of a series or sequence. 'the alpha and the omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end'--revelation
distortion;a change for the worse
epilepsia minor;a seizure (or a type of epilepsy characterized by such seizures) of short duration characterized by momentary unconsciousness and local muscle spasms or twitching
withering;any weakening or degeneration (especially through lack of use)
xt;the presence of an unwanted signal via an accidental coupling
smash;a serious collision (especially of motor vehicles)
eradication;the complete destruction of every trace of something
coup de theatre;a dramatic surprise
pinch;a sudden unforeseen crisis (usually involving danger) that requires immediate action. 'he never knew what to do in an emergency'
extermination;complete annihilation. 'they think a meteor cause the extinction of the dinosaurs'
regeneration;the activity of spiritual or physical renewal
appalling;an experience that appalls. 'is it better to view the appalling or merely hear of it?'
pass;a difficult juncture. 'a pretty pass'. 'matters came to a head yesterday'
monstrosity;something hideous or frightful. 'they regarded the atom bomb as a monstrosity'
pass;one complete cycle of operations (as by a computer). 'it was not possible to complete the computation in a single pass'
spot;a slight attack of illness. 'he has a touch of rheumatism'
walkaway;an easy victory
shipwreck;an irretrievable loss. 'that was the shipwreck of their romance'
bad luck;unnecessary and unforeseen trouble
small slam;winning all but one of the tricks in a hand of bridge
matter of course;an inevitable event
fortune;an unknown and unpredictable phenomenon that leads to a favorable outcome. 'it was my good luck to be there'. 'they say luck is a lady'. 'it was as if fortune guided his hand'
condensation;the process or result of becoming smaller or pressed together: 'the contraction of a gas on cooling'
ripple;(electronics) an oscillation of small amplitude imposed on top of a steady value
crosstalk;the presence of an unwanted signal via an accidental coupling
zygotene;the second stage of the prophase of meiosis
abrupt change;"some occurrence that interrupts. 'the telephone is an annoying interruption'. 'there was a break in the action when a player was hurt'"
appearance;"the event of coming into sight"
place;(in horse racing) a finish in second place
reversion;a reappearance of an earlier characteristic
dislocation;an event that results in a displacement or discontinuity
ordeal;a severe or trying experience
puncture;loss of air pressure in a tire when a hole is made by some sharp object
turkey;an event that fails badly or is totally ineffectual. 'the first experiment was a real turkey'. 'the meeting was a dud as far as new business was concerned'
sequella;a secondary consequence
paroxysm;a sudden uncontrollable attack. 'a paroxysm of giggling'. 'a fit of coughing'
seiche;a wave on the surface of a lake or landlocked bay. caused by atmospheric or seismic disturbances
denouement;the outcome of a complex sequence of events
wave;(physics) a progressive disturbance propagated without displacement of the medium itself
loss;military personnel lost by death or capture
seedtime;any time of new development
toss up;an unpredictable phenomenon. 'it's a toss-up whether he will win or lose'
ground loop;a sharp uncontrollable turn made by an airplane while moving along the ground
weakening;becoming weaker
extinction;complete annihilation. 'they think a meteor cause the extinction of the dinosaurs'
vibration;(physics) a regular variation in value about a mean
romp;an easy victory
cave in;the sudden collapse of something into a hollow beneath it
dwindling;a becoming gradually less. 'there is no greater sadness that the dwindling away of a family'
revitalization;the coming again into activity and prominence
neap tide;a less than average tide occurring at the first and third quarters of the moon
break;a personal or social separation (as between opposing factions). 'they hoped to avoid a break in relations'
stationary wave;a wave (as a sound wave in a chamber or an electromagnetic wave in a transmission line) in which the ratio of its instantaneous amplitude at one point to that at any other point does not vary with time
retrogression;passing from a more complex to a simpler biological form
standstill;an interruption of normal activity
fire;a severe trial. 'he went through fire and damnation'
phlegmasia alba dolens;painful thrombosis of the femoral vein in the leg following childbirth
aftermath;the outcome of an event especially as relative to an individual. 'that result is of no consequence'
beat;a single pulsation of an oscillation produced by adding two waves of different frequencies. has a frequency equal to the difference between the two oscillations
birthright;personal characteristics that are inherited at birth
finis;the concluding part of any performance
compaction;an increase in the density of something
independence;the successful ending of the american revolution. 'they maintained close relations with england even after independence'
metaphase;the second stage of meiosis
sign;an event that is experienced as indicating important things to come. 'he hoped it was an augury'. 'it was a sign from god'
apparition;an unexpected appearance or becoming visible. 'i was recalled to the present by the apparition of two cowboys riding toward me'
harm;the occurrence of a change for the worse
resurrection;revival from inactivity and disuse. 'it produced a resurrection of hope'
burst;"a sudden violent happening. 'an outburst of heavy rain'. 'a burst of lightning'"
moderation;a change for the better
casualty;an accident that causes someone to die
reiteration;doing or saying again
misadventure;an instance of misfortune
subsidence;the sudden collapse of something into a hollow beneath it
densification;an increase in the density of something
run;a row of unravelled stitches. 'she got a run in her stocking'
ebbtide;the tide while water is flowing out
curse;a severe affliction
mischance;an unpredictable outcome that is unfortunate. 'if i didn't have bad luck i wouldn't have any luck at all'
juncture;"an event that occurs at a critical time. 'at such junctures he always had an impulse to leave'. 'it was needed only on special occasions'"
occlusion;closure or blockage of a blood vessel
blow;an unpleasant or disappointing surprise. 'it came as a shock to learn that he was injured'. 'it was blow to their hopes of reconciliation'
twist;an unforeseen development. 'events suddenly took an awkward turn'
alpha;the beginning of a series or sequence. 'the alpha and omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end'--revelations
occasion;"an event that occurs at a critical time. 'at such junctures he always had an impulse to leave'. 'it was needed only on special occasions'"
worst;the least favorable outcome. 'the worst that could happen'
breakup;coming apart
background noise;extraneous noise contaminating sound measurements that cannot be separated from the desired signal
duplicating;the act of duplicating something. 'this kind of duplication is wasteful'
safe period;that time during a woman's menstrual cycle during which conception is least likely to occur (usually immediately before of after menstruation)
episode;"a happening that is distinctive in a series of related events"
doom;an unpleasant or disastrous destiny. 'everyone was aware of the approaching doom but was helpless to avoid it'
accommodation;making or becoming suitable. adjusting to circumstances
checkmate;victory in a game of chess
springtide;a greater than average tide occurring during the new and full moons
syncope;a spontaneous loss of consciousness caused by insufficient blood to the brain
high water;the tide when the water is highest
replay;(television) showing again some action (especially sports action) that has been recorded on video tape
neap;a less than average tide occurring at the first and third quarters of the moon
kickoff;a start given to contestants. 'i was there with my parents at the kickoff'
fiasco;a sudden and violent collapse
recursion;(mathematics) an expression such that each term is generated by repeating a particular mathematical operation
attenuation;weakening in force or intensity: 'attenuation in the volume of the sound'
hazard;an unknown and unpredictable phenomenon that causes an event to result one way rather than another. 'bad luck caused his downfall'. 'it was a chance meeting'
co occurrence;"an event or situation that happens at the same time as or in connection with another"
population shift;a change in the relative numbers of the different groups of individuals making up a population
equipment failure;a cessation of normal operation. 'there was a power failure'
menstrual phase;the phase of the menstrual cycle during which the lining of the uterus is shed (the first day of menstrual flow is considered day 1 of the menstrual cycle)
thromboembolism;occlusion by an embolus that has broken away from a thrombus
turning point;an event marking a unique or important historical change or one on which important developments depend
anaphase;the stage of meiosis or mitosis when chromosomes move toward opposite ends of the nuclear spindle
sparkling;a rapid change in brightness
petit mal;a seizure (or a type of epilepsy characterized by such seizures) of short duration characterized by momentary unconsciousness and local muscle spasms or twitching
hurt;a damage or loss
contagion;an incident is which an infectious disease is transmitted
overturning;(nautical) the event of a boat accidentally turning over in the water
triumph;a successful ending of a struggle or contest. 'the general always gets credit for his army's victory'. 'the agreement was a triumph for common sense'
wrecking;the event of a structure being completely demolished and leveled
derailment;an accident in which a train runs off its track
emergency;a sudden unforeseen crisis (usually involving danger) that requires immediate action. 'he never knew what to do in an emergency'
pulse;the rhythmic contraction and expansion of the arteries with each beat of the heart. 'he could feel the beat of her heart'
resurgence;the coming again into activity and prominence
inheritance;"any attribute that passes from parent to offspring"
vanity fair;a vain and frivolous way of life especially in large cities (after a fair held in the town of vanity in pilgrim's progress)
maiming;an injury that deprives you of a limb or other important body part
opening;the first performance (as of a theatrical production). 'the opening received good critical reviews'
throb;an instance of rapid strong pulsation (of the heart). 'he felt a throbbing in his head'
transmutation;a qualitative change
laugher;an easy victory
happenstance;an event that might have been arranged although it was really accidental
win;a finish in first place (as in a race or other competition). 'he was happy to get the win'
pin;when a wrestler's shoulders are forced to the mat
break;"some occurrence that interrupts. 'the telephone is an annoying interruption'. 'there was a break in the action when a player was hurt'"
tin plague;the transformation of ordinary white tin into powdery gray tin a very cold temperatures
engine failure;engine does not run
course;"a mode of action. 'if you persist in that course you will surely fail'"
nascence;the event of being born. 'they celebrated the birth of their first child'
shock;an unpleasant or disappointing surprise. 'it came as a shock to learn that he was injured'. 'it was blow to their hopes of reconciliation'
vis major;a natural and unavoidable catastrophe that interrupts the expected course of events. 'he discovered that his house was not insured against acts of god'
fadeout;a slow or gradual disappearance
dynamic headroom;the capacity of a system to reproduce loud sounds without distortion
variant;an event that departs from expectations
touch;a slight attack of illness. 'he has a touch of rheumatism'
algorithmic rule;a precise rule (or set of rules) specifying how to solve some problem
easing;a change for the better
reward;a recompense for worthy acts or retribution for wrongdoing. 'the wages of sin is death'. 'virtue is its own reward'
pulsation;(electronics) a sharp transient wave in the normal electrical state (or a series of such transients). 'the pulsations seemed to be coming from a star'
anxiety attack;a sudden acute episode of intense anxiety and feelings of panic
sunrise;the daily event of the sun rising above the horizon
birthright;a right or privilege that you are entitled to at birth. 'free public education is the birthright of every american child'
avalanche;"a sudden appearance of an overwhelming number of things. 'the program brought an avalanche of mail'"
going;euphemistic expressions for death. 'thousands mourned his passing'
pyrrhic victory;a victory that is won by incurring terrible losses
fortune;an unknown and unpredictable phenomenon that causes an event to result one way rather than another. 'bad luck caused his downfall'. 'it was a chance meeting'
concussion;injury to the brain caused by a blow. usually resulting in loss of consciousness
rising tide;the occurrence of incoming water (between a low tide and the following high tide)
interruption;"some occurrence that interrupts. 'the telephone is an annoying interruption'. 'there was a break in the action when a player was hurt'"
onset;the beginning or early stages. 'the onset of pneumonia'
