hour angle;(astronomy) the angular distance of a celestial point measured westward along the celestial equator from the zenith crossing. the right ascension for an observer at a particular location and time of day
stokehold;(nautical) chamber or compartment in which the furnaces of a ship are stoked or fired
axil;the upper angle between an axis and an offshoot such as a branch or leafstalk
thumbhole;a hole made to fit the thumb (as in a bowling ball)
stratum germinativum;the innermost layer of the epidermis
interior angle;the angle inside two adjacent sides of a polygon
bull;the center of a target
celestial longitude;(astronomy) the angular distance eastward along the celestial equator from the vernal equinox to the intersection of the hour circle that passes through the body. expressed in hours and minutes and second. used with declination to specify positions on the celestial sphere. 'one hour of right ascension equals fifteen degrees'
internal angle;the angle inside two adjacent sides of a polygon
forge;a special hearth where metal is heated before shaping
showerhead;a perforated nozzle that showers water on a bather
stokehole;(nautical) chamber or compartment in which the furnaces of a ship are stoked or fired
fire;a fireplace in which a fire is burning. 'they sat by the fire and talked'
breech;where bullets are loaded
farmyard;an area adjacent to farm buildings
air hole;a hole that allows the passage of air
lithosphere;the solid part of the earth
resonator;a hollow chamber whose dimensions allow the resonant oscillation of electromagnetic or acoustic waves
coop;made or wire or metal bars in which birds or animals are kept
matrix;an enclosure within which something originates or develops (from the latin for womb)
subarachnoid space;a space in the meninges beneath the arachnoid membrane and above the pia mater that contains the cerebrospinal fluid
crotch;the angle formed by the inner sides of the legs where they join the human trunk
hawsehole;anchor rope passes through this hole
rotary;a road junction at which traffic streams circularly around a central island. 'the accident blocked all traffic at the rotary'
ore bed;a stratum of ore
acute angle;an angle less than 90 degrees
a horizon;the top layer of a soil profile. usually contains humus
centre of curvature;the center of the circle of curvature
mouth;an opening that resembles a mouth (as of a cave or a gorge). 'he rode into the mouth of the canyon'. 'they built a fire at the mouth of the cave'
reentrant angle;an interior angle of a polygon that is greater than 180 degrees
stratosphere;the atmospheric layer between the troposphere and the mesosphere
crater;a fissure in the earth's crust (or in the surface of some other planet) through which molten lava and gases erupt
gas oven;a cremation chamber fueled by gas
mortise;a square hole made to receive a tenon and so to form a joint
angle of dip;(physics) the angle that a magnetic needle makes with the plane of the horizon
lattice;small opening (like a window in a door) through which business can be transacted
b horizon;immediately below the a-horizon. contains deposits of organic matter leached from surface soils
midst;the location of something surrounded by other things. 'in the midst of the crowd'
nose;a projecting spout from which a fluid is discharged
rear window;allows vision out of the back of the car
mortice;a square hole made to receive a tenon and so to form a joint
core;the central part of the earth
burial vault;a burial chamber (usually underground)
stall;small individual study area in a library
rip;an opening made forcibly as by pulling apart. 'there was a rip in his pants'
hole;an opening deliberately made in or through something
thermosphere;the atmospheric layer between the mesosphere and the exosphere
pen;an enclosure for confining livestock
junction;"the place where two things come together"
cuticle;the outer layer of the skin covering the exterior body surface of vertebrates
peephole;a hole (in a door or an oven etc) through which you can peep
coin slot;a slot through which coins can be inserted into a slot machine
navel point;the center point or middle of something
bull s eye;the center of a target
keyhole;the hole where a key is inserted
hole;an unoccupied space
bullet hole;a hole made by a bullet passing through it
c horizon;beneath the b-horizon and above the bedrock. consisting of weathered rock
niche;a space set back or indented
defile;a narrow pass (especially one between mountains)
space;"an empty area (usually bounded in some way between things). 'the architect left space in front of the building'. 'they stopped at an open space in the jungle'. 'the space between his teeth'"
inclination;(geometry) the angle formed by the x-axis and a given line (measured counterclockwise from the positive half of the x-axis)
pocket;an enclosed space
playpen;a portable enclosure in which babies may be left to play
hold;the space in a ship or aircraft for storing cargo
corium;the deep vascular inner layer of the skin
cavity resonator;a hollow chamber whose dimensions allow the resonant oscillation of electromagnetic or acoustic waves
face angle;the angle formed by two edges of a polyhedral angle
asthenosphere;the lower layer of the crust
split;an opening made forcibly as by pulling apart. 'there was a rip in his pants'
corncob;the hard cylindrical core that bears the kernels of an ear of corn
apse;a domed or vaulted recess or projection on a building especially the east end of a church. usually contains the the altar
angle of incidence;the angle that a line makes with a line perpendicular to the surface at the point of incidence
salient angle;an angle pointing outward. an interior angle of a polygon that is less than 180 degrees
fireplace;an open recess in a wall at the base of a chimney where a fire can be built
stage right;the part of the stage on the actor's right
cave;an underground enclosure with access from the surface of the ground or from the sea
pallium;(zoology) a protective layer of epidermis in mollusks or brachiopods that secretes a substance forming the shell
lead;the angle between the direction a gun is aimed and the position of a moving target (correcting for the flight time of the missile)
sepulture;a chamber that is used as a grave
sheep pen;a pen for sheep
optic disc;"the point where the optic nerve enters the retina. not sensitive to light"
chap;a crack in a lip caused usually by cold
malpighian layer;the innermost layer of the epidermis
caisson;large watertight chamber used for construction under water
angular distance;the angular separation between two objects as perceived by an observer. 'he recorded angular distances between the stars'
spyhole;a hole (in a door or an oven etc) through which you can peep
stratum;one of several parallel layers of material arranged one on top of another (such as a layer of tissue or cells in an organism)
monro s foramen;the small opening (on both the right and left sides) that connects the third ventricle in the diencephalon with the lateral ventricle in the cerebral hemisphere
geosphere;the solid part of the earth
mantle;the layer of the earth between the crust and the core
ear hole;a hole (as in a helmet) for sound to reach the ears
stockyard;enclosure where cattle, pigs, horses, or sheep are kept temporarily
vacuum;"a region empty of matter"
focus;"a point of convergence of light (or other radiation) or a point from which it diverges"
focal point;"a point of convergence of light (or other radiation) or a point from which it diverges"
foramen magnum;the large opening at the base of the cranium through which the spinal cord passes
rent;an opening made forcibly as by pulling apart. 'there was a rip in his pants'
blank;a blank space or missing part
soil horizon;a layer in a soil profile
angle of view;the angle included by a photographic lens
midpoint;"a point equidistant from the ends of a line or the extremities of a figure"
chicken yard;an enclosed yard for keeping poultry
tribune;the apse of a christian church that contains the bishop's throne
chink;a narrow opening as e.g. between planks in a wall
storage area;the space in a ship or aircraft for storing cargo
sac;an enclosed space
gun chamber;the part of a gun that receives the charge
right angle;the 90 degree angle between two perpendicular lines
abutment;"point of contact between two objects or parts"
mausoleum;a large tomb, usually above ground
plughole;(british) a hole into which a plug fits (especially a hole where water drains away)
cremation chamber;a furnace where a corpse can be burned and reduced to ashes
window;a transparent opening in a vehicle that allow vision out of the sides or back. usually is capable of being opened
angle of attack;the acute angle between the direction of the undisturbed relative wind and the chord of an airfoil
foramen;an opening or perforation through a bone or a membranous structure
rodeo;an enclosure for cattle that have been rounded up
neck;the part of a garment near the neck
aperture;an opening. usually small
gun muzzle;the open discharging end of a gun
crossway;a place where one street or road crosses another
wicket;small opening (like a window in a door) through which business can be transacted
cow pen;an enclosure for cattle
fold;a pen for sheep
troposphere;the lowest atmospheric layer. from 4 to 11 miles high (depending on latitude)
mesosphere;the atmospheric layer between the stratosphere and the thermosphere
smoke hole;a vent (as in a roof) for smoke to escape
meeting;"a place where two things come together. 'pittsburgh is located at the confluence of the allegheny and monongahela rivers'"
vacuum chamber;a chamber from which nearly all matter (especially air) has been removed
gap;a pass between mountain peaks
perigon;an angle of 360 degrees
interchange;a junction of highways on different levels that permits traffic to move from one to another without crossing traffic streams
interstice;small opening between things
throat;an opening in the vamp of a shoe at the instep
angle;the space between two lines or planes that intersect. the inclination of one line to another. measured in degrees or radians
external angle;the supplement of an interior angle of a polygon
quarterlight;(british) a small pivoted window vent in the door of a car
notch;"the location in a range of mountains of a geological formation that is lower than the surrounding peaks. 'we got through the pass before it started to snow'"
porthole;an opening (in a wall or ship or armored vehicle) for firing through
steam chest;the chamber from which steam is distributed to a cylinder
fireroom;(nautical) chamber or compartment in which the furnaces of a ship are stoked or fired
t junction;a junction where two roads or pipes etc meet to form a t
midland;the interior part of a country
confluence;"a place where two things come together. 'pittsburgh is located at the confluence of the allegheny and monongahela rivers'"
paries;(anatomy) a layer (a lining or membrane) that encloses a structure. 'stomach walls'
bay;a small recess opening off a larger room
stuffing box;a small chamber in which packing is compressed around a shaft to form a seal
bunghole;a hole in a barrel or cask. used to fill or empty it
cookfire;a fire for cooking
fowl run;an enclosed yard for keeping poultry
thrust fault;an inclined fault in which the hanging wall appears to have been thrust upward with respect to the footwall
finger hole;one of a series of holes in a woodwind instrument. pitch changes when a finger covers it
rete malpighii;the innermost layer of the epidermis
oil furnace;a furnace that burns oil
mouth hole;a hole (as in a ski mask) for the mouth
nucleus;(astronomy) the center of the head of a comet. consists of small solid particles of ice and frozen gas that vaporizes on approaching the sun to form the coma and tail
wave angle;the angle of arrival (or departure) of a radio wave with respect to the axis of an antenna array
thumbhole;the hole in a woodwind that is closed and opened with the thumb
corral;an enclosure for cattle
vault;a burial chamber (usually underground)
view angle;the angle included by a photographic lens
cockpit;an enclosure for cockfights
apsis;a domed or vaulted recess or projection on a building especially the east end of a church. usually contains the the altar
gulf;a deep wide chasm
hydrosphere;the watery layer of the earth's surface. includes water vapor
break;(geology) a fracture in the earth's crust with displacement of one side with respect to the other. 'they built it right on the san andreas fault'
mouthpiece;the part of a wind instrument into which the player blows directly
fault line;(geology) a fracture in the earth's crust with displacement of one side with respect to the other. 'they built it right on the san andreas fault'
saddleback;a pass or ridge that slopes gently between two peaks (is shaped like a saddle)
core;the region of a nuclear reactor containing the fissile material where the reaction takes place
substratum;any stratum lying underneath another
gap;an open or empty space in or between things. 'there was a small opening between the trees'. 'the explosion made a gap in the wall'
lubber s hole;hole in a platform on a mast through which a sailor can climb without going out on the shrouds
master cylinder;a cylinder that contains brake fluid that is compressed by a piston
lacuna;a blank space or missing part
volcano;a fissure in the earth's crust (or in the surface of some other planet) through which molten lava and gases erupt
electric arc furnace;a steel-making furnace in which an electric arc provides the source of heat
enclosure;"a naturally enclosed space"
pigpen;an enclosure for swine
alcove;a small recess opening off a larger room
sepulchre;a chamber that is used as a grave
paddock;an enclosure where racehorses are saddled and paraded before a race
cattle pen;an enclosure for cattle
open fireplace;an open recess in a wall at the base of a chimney where a fire can be built
neckline;the line formed by the edge of a garment around the neck
cup;the hole (or metal container in the hole) on a golf green. 'he swore as the ball rimmed the cup and rolled away'. 'put the flag back in the cup'
perforation;a line of small holes for tearing at a particular place
bight;the middle part of a slack rope (as distinguished from its ends)
bolt hole;a hole through which an animal may bolt when pursued into its burrow or den
crack;a long narrow opening
gravity fault;an inclined fault in which the hanging wall appears to have slipped down relative to the footwall
reentering angle;an interior angle of a polygon that is greater than 180 degrees
interventricular foramen;the small opening (on both the right and left sides) that connects the third ventricle in the diencephalon with the lateral ventricle in the cerebral hemisphere
vacancy;an empty area or space. 'the huge desert voids'. 'the emptiness of outer space'
critical angle;the smallest angle of incidence for which light is totally reflected
mail slot;a slot (usually in a door) through which mail can be delivered
sounding board;(music) a thin resonating board whose vibrations reinforce the sound of the instrument
pore;a minute epidermal pore in a leaf or stem
level crossing;the intersection of a railway and a road on the same level. barriers close road when trains pass
crevice;a long narrow opening
venthole;an opening for the escape of gas or air
left;"location near or direction toward the left side. i.e. the side to the north when a person or object faces east: 'she stood on the left'"
chasm;a deep opening in the earth's surface
centre of gravity;the point within something at which gravity can be considered to act
tropopause;the region of discontinuity between the troposphere and the stratosphere
cavern;a large cave or a large chamber in a cave
cage;made or wire or metal bars in which birds or animals are kept
slit;a long narrow opening
enclosed space;space that is surrounded by something
pinfold;a pen where stray animals are confined
fracture;(geology) a fracture in the earth's crust with displacement of one side with respect to the other. 'they built it right on the san andreas fault'
lunette;oval or circular. to allow light into a dome or vault
crevasse;a deep fissure
rathole;a hole (as in the wall of a building) made by rats
air lock;a chamber that provides access to space where air is under pressure
coal seam;a seam of coal
armhole;through which you put your arm and where sleeve can be attached
crew neckline;a plain straight neck opening from shoulder to shoulder of sweaters
centre;"a point equidistant from the ends of a line or the extremities of a figure"
incidence angle;the angle that a line makes with a line perpendicular to the surface at the point of incidence
inside;"the region that is inside of something"
geological fault;(geology) a fracture in the earth's crust with displacement of one side with respect to the other. 'they built it right on the san andreas fault'
outlet;an opening that permits escape or release. 'he blocked the way out'. 'the canyon had only one issue'
stratum basale;the innermost layer of the epidermis
button hole;buttons are pushed through it
substrate;any stratum lying underneath another
tokamak;a doughnut-shaped chamber used in fusion research. a plasma is heated and confined in a magnetic bottle
wind gap;a pass in a mountain ridge with no stream flowing through it
right ascension;(astronomy) the angular distance eastward along the celestial equator from the vernal equinox to the intersection of the hour circle that passes through the body. expressed in hours and minutes and second. used with declination to specify positions on the celestial sphere. 'one hour of right ascension equals fifteen degrees'
hutch;a cage (usually made of wood and wire mesh) for small animals
circle;a road junction at which traffic streams circularly around a central island. 'the accident blocked all traffic at the rotary'
puncture;a small hole made by a sharp object
cavity;space that is surrounded by something
turning point;the intersection of two streets. 'standing on the corner watching all the girls go by'
snow;a layer of snowflakes (white crystals of frozen water) covering the ground
oblique angle;an angle that is not a right angle or a multiple of a right angle
sack;an enclosed space
micropyle;minute opening in the wall of an ovule through which the pollen tube enters
car window;a window in a car
port;an opening (in a wall or ship or armored vehicle) for firing through
cleft;a long narrow opening
vacuity;"a region empty of matter"
pupil;contractile aperture in the iris of the eye
magnetic dip;(physics) the angle that a magnetic needle makes with the plane of the horizon
breach;an opening (especially a gap in a dike or fortification)
sound hole;a hole in a soundboard (as of a violin) designed to resonate with the tones
fissure;a long narrow opening
nucleus;the positively charged dense center of an atom
carrell;small individual study area in a library
roundabout;a road junction at which traffic streams circularly around a central island. 'the accident blocked all traffic at the rotary'
epidermis;the outer layer of the skin covering the exterior body surface of vertebrates
thick;the location of something surrounded by other things. 'in the midst of the crowd'
center;"a point equidistant from the ends of a line or the extremities of a figure"
pneumatic caisson;large watertight chamber used for construction under water
nasal canthus;the inner corner of the eye
layer;"a relatively thin sheetlike expanse or region lying over or under another"
mountain pass;"the location in a range of mountains of a geological formation that is lower than the surrounding peaks. 'we got through the pass before it started to snow'"
bed;(geology) a stratum of rock (especially sedimentary rock). 'they found a bed of standstone'
cavern;any large dark enclosed space. 'his eyes were dark caverns'
creep;a pen that is fenced so that young animals can enter but adults cannot
right stage;the part of the stage on the actor's right
cutting angle;the angle between the face of a cutting tool and the surface of the work
electric furnace;any furnace in which the heat is provided by an electric current
pore;any tiny hole admitting passage of a liquid (fluid or gas)
grille;small opening (like a window in a door) through which business can be transacted
wall;(anatomy) a layer (a lining or membrane) that encloses a structure. 'stomach walls'
angle of extinction;the angle from its axis that a crystal must be rotated before appearing maximally dark when viewed in polarized light
finger hole;a hole for inserting a finger
horizon;a specific layer or stratum of soil or subsoil in a vertical cross section of land
angle of inclination;(geometry) the angle formed by the x-axis and a given line (measured counterclockwise from the positive half of the x-axis)
exit;an opening that permits escape or release. 'he blocked the way out'. 'the canyon had only one issue'
enclosure;"a space that has been enclosed for some purpose"
nozzle;a projecting spout from which a fluid is discharged
carrefour;a place where one street or road crosses another
knothole;a hole in a board where a knot came out
muzzle;the open discharging end of a gun
pass;"the location in a range of mountains of a geological formation that is lower than the surrounding peaks. 'we got through the pass before it started to snow'"
grot;a small cave (usually with attractive features)
pound;a public enclosure for stray or unlicensed dogs. 'unlicensed dogs will be taken to the pound'
solid angle;an angle formed by three or more planes intersecting at a common point (the vertex)
centroid;point representing the mean position of the matter in a body
sepulcher;a chamber that is used as a grave
magnetic inclination;(physics) the angle that a magnetic needle makes with the plane of the horizon
ozone hole;an area of the ozone layer (near the poles) that is seasonally depleted of ozone
pinprick;small puncture (as if made by a pin)
mouthpiece;a part that goes over or into the mouth of a person. 'the mouthpiece of a respirator'
pen;a portable enclosure in which babies may be left to play
intake;an opening through which fluid is admitted to a tube or container
rear of barrel;where bullets are loaded
cylinder;within which piston moves
fork;the angle formed by the inner sides of the legs where they join the human trunk
stratum lucidum;the layer of epidermis immediately under the stratum corneum in the skin of the palms and soles
hollow;a cavity or space in something. 'hunger had caused the hollows in their cheeks'
left stage;the part of the stage on the actor's left
opening;"a vacant or unobstructed space. 'they left a small opening for the cat at the bottom of the door'"
col;a pass between mountain peaks
abyss;a bottomless gulf or pit
reflex angle;an angle greater than 180 degrees (but less than 360)
void;an empty area or space. 'the huge desert voids'. 'the emptiness of outer space'
railway junction;a junction where two or more railway lines meet or cross
dip;(physics) the angle that a magnetic needle makes with the plane of the horizon
crack;a narrow opening. 'he opened the window a crack'
outfall;the outlet of a river or drain or other source of water
exosphere;the outermost atmospheric layer
squirrel cage;the cage is a cylindrical framework that rotates as a small animals runs inside it
camera obscura;a darkened enclosure in which images of outside objects are projected through an aperture onto a facing surface
water gap;a pass in a mountain ridge through which a stream flows
issue;an opening that permits escape or release. 'he blocked the way out'. 'the canyon had only one issue'
corner;the intersection of two streets. 'standing on the corner watching all the girls go by'
center of gravity;the point within something at which gravity can be considered to act
dermis;the deep vascular inner layer of the skin
gorge;a narrow pass (especially one between mountains)
fly;a garment closure (zipper or buttons) concealed by a fold of cloth
crossing;a place where one street or road crosses another
oil burner;a furnace that burns oil
declination;(astronomy) the angular distance to a point on a celestial object measured north or south from the celestial equator. expressed in degrees. used with right ascension to specify positions on the celestial sphere
antipodes;"any two places or regions on diametrically opposite sides of the earth. 'the north pole and the south pole are antipodes'"
san andreas fault;a major geological fault in california. runs from san diego to san francisco. the source of serious earthquakes
eyelet;a small hole (usually round and finished around the edges) in cloth or leather for the passage of a cord
hearth;an open recess in a wall at the base of a chimney where a fire can be built
stratum corneum;the outermost layer of the epidermis consisting of dead cells that slough off
gunpoint;the muzzle's direction. 'he held me up at the point of a gun'
soundbox;a resonating chamber in a musical instrument (as the body of a violin)
sheepcote;a pen for sheep
crossroad;a place where one street or road crosses another
true anomaly;the angular distance of a point in an orbit past the point of periapsis measured in degrees
inclined fault;a fault in which one side is above the other
spout;an opening that allows the passage of liquids or grain
corner;"the point where three areas or surfaces meet or intersect. 'the corners of a cube'"
upper mantle;the upper part of the mantle
hydraulic brake cylinder;a cylinder that contains brake fluid that is compressed by a piston
dog pound;a public enclosure for stray or unlicensed dogs. 'unlicensed dogs will be taken to the pound'
blind spot;"the point where the optic nerve enters the retina. not sensitive to light"
firing chamber;the part of a gun that receives the charge
crinion;"point where the hairline meets the midpoint of the forehead"
plenum;an enclosed space in which the air pressure is higher than outside
navel;the center point or middle of something
cambium;the inner layer of the periosteum
embrasure;an opening (in a wall or ship or armored vehicle) for firing through
trichion;"point where the hairline meets the midpoint of the forehead"
extinction angle;the angle from its axis that a crystal must be rotated before appearing maximally dark when viewed in polarized light
intersection;a place where one street or road crosses another
fault;(geology) a fracture in the earth's crust with displacement of one side with respect to the other. 'they built it right on the san andreas fault'
bell;the flared opening of a tubular device
aperture;an opening in something
ha;(astronomy) the angular distance of a celestial point measured westward along the celestial equator from the zenith crossing. the right ascension for an observer at a particular location and time of day
piston chamber;within which piston moves
dock;an enclosure in a court of law where the defendant sits during the trial
split;a lengthwise crack in wood. 'he inserted the wedge into a split in the log'
sheepfold;a pen for sheep
dec;(astronomy) the angular distance to a point on a celestial object measured north or south from the celestial equator. expressed in degrees. used with right ascension to specify positions on the celestial sphere
magnetic variation;the angle (at a particular location) between magnetic north and true north
junction;"a place where two things come together. 'pittsburgh is located at the confluence of the allegheny and monongahela rivers'"
blowhole;an opening for the escape of gas or air
crypt;a cellar or vault or underground chamber (especially beneath a church)
center of mass;point representing the mean position of the matter in a body
lower mantle;the deeper part of the mantle
normal fault;an inclined fault in which the hanging wall appears to have slipped down relative to the footwall
vent;an opening for the escape of gas or air
right;"location near or direction toward the right side. i.e. the side to the south when a person or object faces east: 'he stood on the right'"
tear;an opening made forcibly as by pulling apart. 'there was a rip in his pants'
leak;an accidental hole that allows something (fluid or light etc.) to enter or escape. 'one of the tires developed a leak'
furnace;an enclosed chamber in which heat is produced to heat buildings, destroy refuse, smelt or refine ores, etc.
latitude;the angular distance between an imaginary line around a heavenly body parallel to its equator and the equator itself
embouchure;the part of a wind instrument into which the player blows directly
exterior angle;the supplement of an interior angle of a polygon
opening;an open or empty space in or between things. 'there was a small opening between the trees'. 'the explosion made a gap in the wall'
compound;an enclosure of residences and other building (especially in the orient)
crossing;"a point where two lines (paths or arcs etc.) intersect"
temporal canthus;the outer corner of the eye
charnel house;a vault or building where corpses or bones are deposited
point;the muzzle's direction. 'he held me up at the point of a gun'
polyhedral angle;the space enclosed by three or more planes that intersect in a vertex
cubicle;small individual study area in a library
posthole;a hole dug in the ground to hold a fence post
celestial latitude;(astronomy) the angular distance to a point on a celestial object measured north or south from the celestial equator. expressed in degrees. used with right ascension to specify positions on the celestial sphere
angle of refraction;the angle between a refracted ray and a line perpendicular to the surface between the two media at the point of refraction
center of curvature;the center of the circle of curvature
loophole;a small hole in a fortified wall. for observation or discharging weapons
burial chamber;a chamber that is used as a grave
tilt angle;the angle a rocket makes with the vertical as it curves along its trajectory
magnetic declination;the angle (at a particular location) between magnetic north and true north
nail hole;a hole left after a nail is removed
post hole;a hole dug in the ground to hold a fence post
pinhole;a small hole made by a pin
rabbit hutch;a hutch for rabbits
inclination;(astronomy) the angle between the plane of the orbit and the plane of the ecliptic stated in degrees
street corner;the intersection of two streets. 'standing on the corner watching all the girls go by'
blast furnace;for smelting of iron from iron oxide ores. combustion is intensified by a blast of air
kraal;an enclosure for livestock in southern africa
hawse;anchor rope passes through this hole
cove;small or narrow cave in the side of a cliff or mountain
corner;"the point where two lines meet or intersect. 'the corners of a rectangle'"
yard;an enclosure for animals (as chicken or livestock)
buttonhole;buttons are pushed through it
repository;a burial vault (usually for some famous person)
core;the center of an object. 'do not eat the apple core'
lock chamber;section of canal that can be closed to control the water level. used to raise or lower vessels that pass through it
packing box;a small chamber in which packing is compressed around a shaft to form a seal
gargoyle;a spout that terminates in a grotesquely carved figure of a person or animal
corneum;the outermost layer of the epidermis consisting of dead cells that slough off
az;the azimuth of a celestial body is the angle between the vertical plane containing it and the plane of the meridian
way out;an opening that permits escape or release. 'he blocked the way out'. 'the canyon had only one issue'
corn snow;granular snow formed by alternate thawing and freezing
crematorium;a furnace where a corpse can be burned and reduced to ashes
azimuth;the azimuth of a celestial body is the angle between the vertical plane containing it and the plane of the meridian
cargo deck;the space in a ship or aircraft for storing cargo
fenestella;oval or circular. to allow light into a dome or vault
storm center;the central area or place of lowest barometric pressure within a storm
grotto;a small cave (usually with attractive features)
resonating chamber;a hollow chamber whose dimensions allow the resonant oscillation of electromagnetic or acoustic waves
nombril;the center point on a shield
bed;a stratum of ore or coal thick enough to be mined with profit. 'he worked in the coal beds'
grade crossing;the intersection of a railway and a road on the same level. barriers close road when trains pass
geological horizon;a layer of rock with a particular composition (especially of fossils). for dating the stratum
stoma;a minute epidermal pore in a leaf or stem
nacelle;a streamlined enclosure for an aircraft engine
gap;a narrow opening. 'he opened the window a crack'
stage left;the part of the stage on the actor's left
recess;a space set back or indented
barnyard;a yard adjoining a barn
spherical angle;an angle formed at the intersection of the arcs of two great circles
vent;a fissure in the earth's crust (or in the surface of some other planet) through which molten lava and gases erupt
pouch;an enclosed space
fatigue crack;a crack in metal resulting from metal fatigue
cofferdam;large watertight chamber used for construction under water
firebox;a furnace (as on a steam locomotive) in which fuel is burned
cranny;a small opening or crevice (especially in a rock face or wall)
rift;a gap between cloud masses. 'the sun shone through a rift in the clouds'
mouth;the opening of a jar or bottle. 'the jar had a wide mouth'
horny layer;the outermost layer of the epidermis consisting of dead cells that slough off
hole;an opening into or through something
ra;(astronomy) the angular distance eastward along the celestial equator from the vernal equinox to the intersection of the hour circle that passes through the body. expressed in hours and minutes and second. used with declination to specify positions on the celestial sphere. 'one hour of right ascension equals fifteen degrees'
foramen of monro;the small opening (on both the right and left sides) that connects the third ventricle in the diencephalon with the lateral ventricle in the cerebral hemisphere
crematory;a furnace where a corpse can be burned and reduced to ashes
ticket window;a window through which tickets are sold
emptiness;an empty area or space. 'the huge desert voids'. 'the emptiness of outer space'
crew neck;a plain straight neck opening from shoulder to shoulder of sweaters
traffic circle;a road junction at which traffic streams circularly around a central island. 'the accident blocked all traffic at the rotary'
birdcage;a cage in which a bird is kept
chicken run;an enclosed yard for keeping poultry
hyperbaric chamber;a room-sized chamber in which the oxygen pressure is above normal for the atmosphere. used in treating breathing disorders or carbon monoxide poisoning
fly front;a garment closure (zipper or buttons) concealed by a fold of cloth
saddle;a pass or ridge that slopes gently between two peaks (is shaped like a saddle)
henyard;an enclosed yard for keeping poultry
rear of tube;where bullets are loaded
ozone layer;a layer in the stratosphere (at approximately 20 miles) that contains a concentration of ozone sufficient to block most ultraviolet radiation from the sun
hawsepipe;anchor rope passes through this hole
inclination;(physics) the angle that a magnetic needle makes with the plane of the horizon
decolletage;a low-cut neckline on a woman's dress
manhole;a hole (usually with a flush cover) through which a person can gain access to an underground structure
bowels;the center of the earth
rift;a narrow fissure in rock
brake cylinder;a cylinder that contains brake fluid that is compressed by a piston
carrel;small individual study area in a library
vertical angle;either of two equal and opposite angles formed by the intersection of two straight lines
abysm;a bottomless gulf or pit
abdominal wall;a wall of the abdomen
soundboard;(music) a thin resonating board whose vibrations reinforce the sound of the instrument
helix angle;the constant angle at which a helix cuts the elements of a cylinder or cone
incinerator;a furnace for incinerating (especially to dispose of refuse)
pigsty;an enclosure for swine
gunpoint;the open discharging end of a gun
eye;a small hole or loop (as in a needle). 'the thread wouldn't go through the eye'
seam;a stratum of ore or coal thick enough to be mined with profit. 'he worked in the coal beds'
window;an opening that resembles a window in appearance or function. 'he could see them through a window in the trees'
window;an open space in the wall of a building (usually to admit light and air). 'he stuck his head in the window'
natural enclosure;"a naturally enclosed space"
derma;the deep vascular inner layer of the skin
cargo area;the space in a ship or aircraft for storing cargo
stratum granulosum;the layer of epidermis just under the stratum corneum or (on the palms and soles) just under the stratum lucidum. contains cells (with visible granules) that die and move to the surface
inclination of an orbit;(astronomy) the angle between the plane of the orbit and the plane of the ecliptic stated in degrees
lock;section of canal that can be closed to control the water level. used to raise or lower vessels that pass through it
cloverleaf;an interchange that does not require left-hand turns
cumberland gap;a pass through the cumberland mountains between virginia and kentucky that early settlers used in order to move west
scissure;a long narrow opening
obtuse angle;an angle between 90 and 180 degrees
angle of reflection;the angle between a reflected ray and a line perpendicular to the reflecting surface at the point of incidence
round angle;an angle of 360 degrees
perforation;one of a series of small holes (especially such a series for separating a sheet into parts)
slot;a small slit (as for inserting a coin or depositing mail)
plane angle;an angle formed by two straight lines (in the same plane)
airlock;a chamber that provides access to space where air is under pressure
stassano furnace;a steel-making furnace in which an electric arc provides the source of heat
slit;a narrow fissure
swath;the space created by the swing of a scythe or the cut of a mowing machine
barycenter;(astronomy) the common center of mass around which two or more bodies revolve
plate;a rigid layer of the lithosphere that is believed to drift slowly
sty;an enclosure for swine
gas furnace;a furnace that burns gas
storm centre;the central area or place of lowest barometric pressure within a storm
monument;a burial vault (usually for some famous person)
cupola;a vertical cylindrical furnace for melting iron for casting
chamber;a natural or artificial enclosed space
interior;"the region that is inside of something"
canthus;either of the corners of the eye where the upper and lower eyelids meet
mantle;(zoology) a protective layer of epidermis in mollusks or brachiopods that secretes a substance forming the shell
charnel;a vault or building where corpses or bones are deposited
