perception;"knowledge gained by perceiving. 'a man admired for the depth of his perception'"
footing;a relation that provides the foundation for something. 'they were on a friendly footing' or 'he worked on an interim basis'
component part;something determined in relation to something that includes it. 'he wanted to feel a part of something bigger than himself'. 'i read a portion of the manuscript'. 'the smaller component is hard to reach'
grass roots;the essential foundation or source. 'the problem was attacked at the grass roots'
portion;something determined in relation to something that includes it. 'he wanted to feel a part of something bigger than himself'. 'i read a portion of the manuscript'. 'the smaller component is hard to reach'
perceptiveness;perception of that which is obscure
abstraction;a general concept formed by extracting common features from specific examples
penetration;clear or deep perception of a situation
relation;an abstraction belonging to or characteristic of two entities or parts togetheran abstraction belonging to or characteristic of two entities or parts together
cognizance;range or scope of what is perceived
foundation;"the basis on which something is grounded. 'there is little foundation for his objections'"
basis;a relation that provides the foundation for something. 'they were on a friendly footing' or 'he worked on an interim basis'
common ground;a basis agreed to by all parties for reaching a mutual understanding
component;something determined in relation to something that includes it. 'he wanted to feel a part of something bigger than himself'. 'i read a portion of the manuscript'. 'the smaller component is hard to reach'
communication;something that is communicated between people or groups
insight;clear or deep perception of a situation
part;something determined in relation to something that includes it. 'he wanted to feel a part of something bigger than himself'. 'i read a portion of the manuscript'. 'the smaller component is hard to reach'
discernment;perception of that which is obscure
ground;a relation that provides the foundation for something. 'they were on a friendly footing' or 'he worked on an interim basis'
social relation;a relation between living organisms. esp between people
medium;"a state that is intermediate between extremes. a middle position. 'a happy medium'"
