people;"the body of citizens of a state or country. 'the spanish people'"
humans;"all of the inhabitants of the earth. 'all the world loves a lover'"
fauna;"all the animal life in a particular region"
bier patch;tangled mass of prickly plants
flora;"all the plant life in a particular region"
brake;an area thickly overgrown usually with one kind of plant
copse;a dense growth of bushes
vegetation;"all the plant life in a particular region"
underbrush;the brush (small trees and bushes and ferns etc.) growing beneath taller trees in a wood or forest
soleirolia soleirolii;prostrate or creeping corsican herb with mosslike small round short-stemmed leaves
garden;the flowers or vegetables or fruits or herbs that are cultivated in a garden
thicket;a dense growth of bushes
biology;"all the plant and animal life of a particular region"
groundcover;small plants other than saplings growing on a forest floor
canebrake;a dense growth of cane (especially giant cane)
ground cover;small plants other than saplings growing on a forest floor
woods;the trees and other plants in a large densely wooded area
overpopulation;too much population
brush;a dense growth of bushes
citizenry;"the body of citizens of a state or country. 'the spanish people'"
overspill;too much population
old growth;forest or woodland having a mature or overmature ecosystem more or less uninfluenced by human activity
helxine soleirolia;prostrate or creeping corsican herb with mosslike small round short-stemmed leaves
brier;tangled mass of prickly plants
hernaria glabra;common prostrate old world herb often used as a ground cover. formerly reputed to cure ruptures
grove;a small growth of trees without underbrush
mankind;"all of the inhabitants of the earth. 'all the world loves a lover'"
wood;the trees and other plants in a large densely wooded area
spinney;(british) a copse that shelters game
whitlowwort;any of various low-growing tufted plants of the genus paronychia having tiny greenish flowers and usually whorled leaves. widespread throughout warm regions of both old and new worlds. formerly thought to cure whitlows (suppurative infections around a fingernail)
virgin forest;forest or woodland having a mature or overmature ecosystem more or less uninfluenced by human activity
shrubbery;a collection of shrubs growing together
humanity;"all of the inhabitants of the earth. 'all the world loves a lover'"
second growth;a second growth of trees covering an area where the original stand was destroyed by fire or cutting
pearlwort;any of various low-growing plants of the genus sagina having small spherical flowers resembling pearls
ground cover;low-growing plants planted in deep shade or on a steep slope where turf is difficult to grow
governed;the body of people who are citizens of a particular government. 'governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed'--declaration of independence
forest;the trees and other plants in a large densely wooded area
world;"all of the inhabitants of the earth. 'all the world loves a lover'"
chaparral;dense vegetation consisting of stunted trees or bushes
baby s tears;prostrate or creeping corsican herb with mosslike small round short-stemmed leaves
baby tears;prostrate or creeping corsican herb with mosslike small round short-stemmed leaves
coppice;a dense growth of bushes
man;"all of the inhabitants of the earth. 'all the world loves a lover'"
population;"a group of organisms of the same species populating a given area. 'they hired hunters to keep down the deer population'"
brushwood;a dense growth of bushes
rupturewort;common prostrate old world herb often used as a ground cover. formerly reputed to cure ruptures
human beings;"all of the inhabitants of the earth. 'all the world loves a lover'"
humankind;"all of the inhabitants of the earth. 'all the world loves a lover'"
undergrowth;small plants other than saplings growing on a forest floor
growth;vegetation that has grown. 'a growth of trees'. 'the only growth was some salt grass'
groundcover;low-growing plants planted in deep shade or on a steep slope where turf is difficult to grow
brierpatch;tangled mass of prickly plants
bush;dense vegetation consisting of stunted trees or bushes
stand;a growth of similar plants (usually trees) in a particular area. 'they cut down a stand of trees'
biota;"all the plant and animal life of a particular region"
pearlweed;any of various low-growing plants of the genus sagina having small spherical flowers resembling pearls
undergrowth;the brush (small trees and bushes and ferns etc.) growing beneath taller trees in a wood or forest
human race;"all of the inhabitants of the earth. 'all the world loves a lover'"
scrub;dense vegetation consisting of stunted trees or bushes
electorate;the body of enfranchised citizens. those qualified to vote
underwood;the brush (small trees and bushes and ferns etc.) growing beneath taller trees in a wood or forest
avifauna;the birds of a particular region or period
