chug;the dull explosive noise made by an engine
wrench;a jerky pulling movement
glint;a momentary flash of light
spelldown;a contest in which you are eliminated if you fail to spell a word correctly
creaking;a squeaking sound. 'the creak of the floorboards gave him away'
thunk;a dull hollow sound. 'the basketball made a thunk as it hit the rim'
bell;the sound of a bell: 'saved by the bell'
away game;a game played away from home
mudslide;a landslide of mud
inauguration;the ceremonial induction into a position. 'the new president obviously enjoyed his inauguration'
instroke;the stroke of an engine piston moving away from the crankshaft
pealing;a deep prolonged sound (as of thunder)
throw;the maximum movement available to a pivoted or reciprocating piece by a cam
fertilization;creation by the union of sperm or pollen with an animal or plant or egg cell
commencement;an academic exercise in which diplomas are conferred
eager;a high wave (often dangerous) caused by tidal flow (as by colliding tidal currents or in a narrow estuary)
kentucky derby;an annual race for three-year-old horses. held at churchill downs in louisville, kentucky
relay race;a race between teams. each member runs or swims part of the distance
squawk;the noise of squawking. 'the squawk of car horns'
subsiding;a gradual sinking to a lower level
semi;one of the two competitions in the next to the last round of an elimination tournament
subluxation;partial displacement of a joint or organ
chirp;a sharp sound made by small birds or insects
spurt;the occurrence of a sudden discharge (as of liquid)
harness race;a horse race between people riding in sulkies behind horses that are trotting or pacing
match game;an international championship match
popping;a sharp explosive sound as from a gunshot or drawing a cork
touch;the event of something coming in contact with the body. 'he longed for the touch of her hand'. 'the cooling touch of the night air'
swim meet;a swimming competition between two or more teams
dog racing;a race between dogs. usually an occasion for betting on the outcome
voice;a sound suggestive of a vocal utterance. 'the noisy voice of the waterfall'. 'the incessant voices of the artillery'
strike;a gentle blow
wring;a twisting squeeze: 'gave the wet cloth a wring'
vibrato;(music) a pulsating effect in an instrumental or vocal tone produced by slight and rapid variations in pitch
tidal flow;the water current caused by the tides
emergence;"the gradual beginning or coming forth. 'figurines presage the emergence of sculpture in greece'"
ricochet;a glancing rebound
formality;a requirement of etiquette or custom
hurdles;a footrace in which contestant must negotiate a series of hurdles
lightning;emission of light due to electricity discharging from cloud to cloud or from cloud to earth
crash;"a sudden large decline of business or the prices of stocks (especially one that causes additional failures)"
entombment;the ritual placing of a corpse in a grave
bell ringing;the sound of someone playing a set of bells
roll;a complete turn. 'the plane made three rotations before it crashed'
hissing;a fricative sound uttered as an expression of dislike or contempt. 'the performers could not be heard over the hissing of the audience'
airflow;the flow of air
tap;the sound made by a gentle blow
billow;a large sea wave
drip;the formation and falling of drops of liquid. 'there's a drip through the roof'
rustle;the light noise like the noise of silk clothing or leaves blowing in the wind
home game;a game played at home
scrunch;a crunching noise
outpouring;a sudden rapid flow (as of water). 'he heard the flush of a toilet'. 'there was a little gush of blood'. 'she attacked him with an outpouring of words'
drum;the sound of a drum. 'he could hear the drums before he heard the fifes'
report;a sharp explosive sound (especially the sound of a gun firing). 'they heard a violent report followed by silence'
detonation;a violent release of energy caused by a chemical or nuclear reaction
motion;"a natural event that involves a change in the position or location of something"
mixture;an event that combines things in a mixture. 'a gradual mixture of cultures'
heat flash;a flash of intense heat (as released by an atomic explosion)
nuptials;the social event at which the ceremony of marriage is performed
gleam;a flash of light (especially reflected light)
outflow;the unwanted discharge of a fluid from some container. 'they tried to stop the escape of gas from the damaged pipe'. 'he had to clean up the leak'
cross fertilisation;fertilization by the union of male and female gametes from different individual of the same species
impinging;"the physical coming together of two or more things. 'contact with the pier scraped paint from the hull'"
twist;a jerky pulling movement
self fertilisation;fertilization by the union of male and female gametes from the same individual
harness racing;a horse race between people riding in sulkies behind horses that are trotting or pacing
reflux;the outward flow of the tide
luxation;displacement or misalignment of a joint or organ
pentathlon;an athletic contest consisting of five different events
race;a contest of speed. 'the race is to the swift'
return;the occurrence of a change in direction back in the opposite direction
stream;a steady flow (usually from natural causes). 'the raft floated downstream on the current'. 'he felt a stream of air'
rapid climb;a rapid rise
hurdling;a footrace in which contestant must negotiate a series of hurdles
revolution;a complete turn. 'the plane made three rotations before it crashed'
rolling wave;a long heavy sea wave as it advances towards the shore
repercussion;a movement back from an impact
cheep;the short weak cry of a young bird
emission;the occurrence of a flow of water (as from a pipe)
avalanche;a slide of large masses of snow and ice and mud down a mountain
bolt of lightning;a discharge of lightning accompanied by thunder
clank;a loud resonant repeating noise. 'he could hear the clang of distant bells'
regatta;a meeting for boat races
pole jump;a competition that involves jumping over a high crossbar with the aid of a long pole
jets;atmospheric discharges (lasting 10 msec) bursting from the tops of giant storm clouds in blue cones that widen as they flash upward
wavelet;a small wave on the surface of a liquid
brush fire;an uncontrolled fire that consumes brush and shrubs and bushes
bark;the sound made by a dog
meshing;contact by fitting together. 'the engagement of the clutch'. 'the meshing of gears'
ticktock;steady recurrent ticking sound as made by a clock
scratching;a harsh noise made by scraping. 'the scrape of violin bows distracted her'
selling race;a horse race in which the winning horse must be put up for auction
kick;the backward jerk of a gun when it is fired
upthrust;(geology) a rise of land to a higher elevation (as in the process of mountain building)
world series;the playoff for the baseball championship. 'we watched the wordl series on tv'
overspill;the occurrence of surplus liquid (as water) exceeding the limit or capacity
passing;the motion of one object relative to another. 'stellar passings can perturb the orbits of comets'
upsurge;a sudden forceful flow
collapse;"a sudden large decline of business or the prices of stocks (especially one that causes additional failures)"
murmur;a low continuous indistinct sound
foot race;a race run on foot. 'she broke the record for the half-mile run'
chatter;the high-pitched continuing noise made by animals (birds or monkeys)
track meet;a track and field competition between two or more teams
bath mitzvah;(judaism) an initiation ceremony marking the 12th birthday of a jewish girl and signifying the beginning of religious responsibility
eagre;a high wave (often dangerous) caused by tidal flow (as by colliding tidal currents or in a narrow estuary)
ground fire;a forest fire that burns the humus. may not appear on the surface
tournament;a sporting competition in which contestants play a series of games to decide the winner
displacement;an event in which something is displaced without rotation
angelus bell;the sound of a bell rung in roman catholic churches to announce the time when the angelus should be recited
scratch;a harsh noise made by scraping. 'the scrape of violin bows distracted her'
freshet;the occurrence of a water flow resulting from sudden rain or melting snow
blend;an occurrence of thorough mixing
uplifting;the rising of something. 'the coulds' uplifting revealed the blue of a summer sky'
atmospheric electricity;electrical discharges in the atmosphere
gush;a sudden rapid flow (as of water). 'he heard the flush of a toilet'. 'there was a little gush of blood'. 'she attacked him with an outpouring of words'
spreading;process or result of distributing or extending over a wide expanse of space
turning;a movement in a new direction. 'the turning of the wind'
sinking;a descent as through liquid (especially through water). 'they still talk about the sinking of the titanic'
grumbling;a loud low dull continuous noise. 'they heard the rumbling of thunder'
pollenation;transfer of pollen from the anther to the stigma of a plant
crackle;the sharp sound of snapping noises
crow;the cry of a cock (or an imitation of it)
footstep;the sound of a step of someone walking. 'he heard footsteps on the porch'
splutter;the noise of something spattering or sputtering explosively. 'he heard a spatter of gunfire'
gyration;a complete turn. 'the plane made three rotations before it crashed'
travel;a movement through space that changes the location of something
buzz;sound of rapid vibration: 'the buzz of a bee'
sea purse;the seaward undercurrent created after waves have broken on the shore
grand national;an annual steeplechase run in liverpool, england
bounce;rebounding from an impact (or series of impacts)
crunch;the sound of something crunching. 'he heard the crunch of footsteps on the gravel path'
heaving;an upward movement (especially a rhythmical rising and falling). 'the heaving of waves on a rough sea'
conglomeration;an occurrence combining miscellaneous things
practice game;a game whose outcome is not recorded in the season's standing
torch race;(classical greece) in which a torch is passed from one runner to the next
winter olympic games;an olympics for winter sports
splattering;the noise of something spattering or sputtering explosively. 'he heard a spatter of gunfire'
spray;a jet of vapor
thumping;a heavy dull sound (as made by impact of heavy objects)
olympic games;the modern revival of the ancient games held once every 4 years in a selected country
encroachment;any entry into an area not previously occupied. 'an invasion of tourists'. 'an invasion of locusts'. 'a viral invasion'
mutter;a low continuous indistinct sound
opening;a ceremony accompanying the start of some enterprise
bouncing;rebounding from an impact (or series of impacts)
pole vault;a competition that involves jumping over a high crossbar with the aid of a long pole
investiture;the ceremony of installing a new monarch
simple harmonic motion;periodic motion in which the restoring force is proportional to the displacement
ocean current;the steady flow of ocean water in a prevailing direction
tidal current;the water current caused by the tides
forest fire;an uncontrolled fire in a wooded area
sparring match;a practice or exhibition boxing match
jar;a sudden impact. 'the door closed with a jolt'
rise;a wave that lifts the surface of the water or ground
liftoff;the initial ascent of a rocket from its launching pad
thrum;a thrumming sound. 'he could hear the thrum of a banjo'
ground swell;a broad and deep undulation of the ocean
formalities;a requirement of etiquette or custom
snore;the rattling noise produced when snoring
stroke;the maximum movement available to a pivoted or reciprocating piece by a cam
turn around;turning in an opposite direction or position. 'the reversal of the image in the lens'
roll;a deep prolonged sound (as of thunder)
topspin;forward spin (usually of a moving ball) that is imparted by an upward stroke
vortex;a powerful circular current of water (usually the resulting of conflicting tides)
loud noise;a sudden very loud noise
bore;a high wave (often dangerous) caused by tidal flow (as by colliding tidal currents or in a narrow estuary)
upheaval;(geology) a rise of land to a higher elevation (as in the process of mountain building)
unification;an occurrence that involves the production of a union
banging;a continuing very loud noise
burial;the ritual placing of a corpse in a grave
set;the descent of a heavenly body below the horizon. 'before the set of sun'
cluck;the sound made by a hen (as in calling her chicks)
climb;an event that involves rising to a higher point (as in altitude or temperature or intensity etc.)
ceremony;a formal event performed on a special occasion. 'a ceremony commemorating pearl harbor'
commencement exercise;an academic exercise in which diplomas are conferred
tug of war;a contest in which teams pull of opposite ends of a rope. the team dragged across a central line loses
discharge;the pouring forth of a fluid
maelstrom;a powerful circular current of water (usually the resulting of conflicting tides)
matched game;an international championship match
bar mitzvah;(judaism) an initiation ceremony marking the 13th birthday of a jewish boy and signifying the beginning of religious responsibility. 'a bar mitzvah is an important social event'
japan current;a warm ocean current that flows ne off the coast of japan into the n pacific
mounting;an event that involves rising to a higher point (as in altitude or temperature or intensity etc.)
brawl;an uproarious party
sound;"the sudden occurrence of an audible event. 'the sound awakened them'"
paradiddle;the sound of a drum (especially a snare drum) beaten rapidly and continuously
rippling;a small wave on the surface of a liquid
governor s race;a race for election to the governorship
crime wave;a sudden rise in the crime rate
caterwaul;the yowling sound made by a cat in heat
military ceremony;a formal ceremony performed by military personnel
concoction;an occurrence of an unusual mixture
memorialisation;a ceremony to honor the memory of someone or something
whist drive;(british) a progressive whist party
oozing;the process of seeping
elves;an acronym for emissions of light and very low frequency perturbations due to electromagnetic pulse sources. extremely bright extremely short (less than a msec) electrical flashes forming a huge ring (up to 400 km diameter) in the ionosphere
diving;an athletic competition that involves diving into water
relays;a race between teams. each member runs or swims part of the distance
lift;the event of something being raised
smack;a blow from a flat object (as an open hand)
steeplechase;a footrace of usually 3000 meters over a closed track with hurdles and a water jump
boom;a deep prolonged loud noise
blast;a sudden very loud noise
trickle;the formation and falling of drops of liquid. 'there's a drip through the roof'
senate race;a race for election to the senate
blowback;the backward escape of unburned gunpowder after a shot
impregnation;creation by the union of sperm or pollen with an animal or plant or egg cell
blowup;a sudden very loud noise
movement;"a natural event that involves a change in the position or location of something"
freestyle;a race (as in swimming) in which each contestant has a free choice of the style to use
tap;a gentle blow
fall;a free and rapid descent by the force of gravity. 'it was a miracle that he survived the drop from that height'
run;a race run on foot. 'she broke the record for the half-mile run'
takeoff;the initial ascent of an airplane as it becomes airborne
allogamy;cross-fertilization in plants
rotation;a complete turn. 'the plane made three rotations before it crashed'
current;a steady flow (usually from natural causes). 'the raft floated downstream on the current'. 'he felt a stream of air'
rise;a growth in strength or number or importance
heat lightning;bright flashes of light near the horizon without thunder (especially on hot evenings). usually attributed to distant lightning that is reflected by clouds
clap;a sudden very loud noise
campaign;a race between candidates for elective office
induction;a formal entry into a position or office. 'his initiation into the club'. 'he was ordered to report for induction into the arm'
thunder;a deep prolonged loud noise
commemoration;a ceremony to honor the memory of someone or something
brush;momentary contact
rat tat;a series of short sharp noises (as made by strokes on a drum or knocks on a door)
social occasion;a vaguely specified social event. 'the party was quite an affair'
tick;a metallic tapping sound. 'he counted the ticks of the clock'
subsidence;a gradual sinking to a lower level
tsunami;a huge destructive wave (especially one caused by an earthquake)
athletic contest;a contest between athletes
thunderclap;a single sharp crash of thunder
shower;a sudden downpour (as of tears or sparks etc) likened to a rain shower. 'a little shower of rose petals'
pedesis;the random motion of small particles suspended in a gas or liquid
bomb blast;the explosion of a bomb
entering;a movement into or inward
screech;a high-pitched noise resembling a human cry. 'he ducked at the screechings of shells'. 'he heard the scream of the brakes'
moo;the sound made by a cow or bull
explosion;a violent release of energy caused by a chemical or nuclear reaction
coronation;the ceremony of installing a new monarch
splash;the sound like water splashing
crown fire;a forest fire that advances with great speed jumping from crown to crown ahead of the ground fire
hubbub;loud confused noise from many sources
grand prix;one of several international races
union;"the occurrence of a uniting of separate parts. 'lightning produced an unusual union of the metals'"
clink;a short light metallic sound
inhumation;the ritual placing of a corpse in a grave
drum roll;the sound of a drum (especially a snare drum) beaten rapidly and continuously
squeak;a short high-pitched noise. 'the squeak of of shoes on powdery snow'
touching;the event of something coming in contact with the body. 'he longed for the touch of her hand'. 'the cooling touch of the night air'
celebration;an occasion for special festivities to mark some happy event
ascension;a movement upward. 'they cheered the rise of the hot-air balloon'
whirl;confused movement. 'he was caught up in a whirl of work'. 'a commotion of people fought for the exits'
spread;process or result of distributing or extending over a wide expanse of space
clash;a loud resonant repeating noise. 'he could hear the clang of distant bells'
action potential;the local voltage change across the cell wall as a nerve impulse is transmitted
passage;the motion of one object relative to another. 'stellar passings can perturb the orbits of comets'
headway;forward movement. 'the ship made little headway against the gale'
ski race;a race between people wearing skis
sonic boom;an explosive sound caused by the shock wave of an airplane traveling faster than the speed of sound. 'a sonic boom follows an aircraft as a wake follows a ship'
field event;a competition that takes place on a field rather than on a running track
ticking;a metallic tapping sound. 'he counted the ticks of the clock'
invasion;any entry into an area not previously occupied. 'an invasion of tourists'. 'an invasion of locusts'. 'a viral invasion'
blare;a loud harsh or strident noise
beat;the sound of stroke or blow. 'he heard the beat of a drum'
rattling;a rapid series of short loud sounds
conception;"the event that occured at the beginning of something. 'from its creation the plan was doomed to failure'"
amphimixis;union of sperm and egg in sexual reproduction
shrilling;a continuing shrill noise. 'the clash of swords and the shrilling of trumpets'--p. j. searles
translation;a uniform movement without rotation
hum;a humming noise. 'the hum of distant traffic'
ascent;a movement upward. 'they cheered the rise of the hot-air balloon'
step;the sound of a step of someone walking. 'he heard footsteps on the porch'
double feature;two instead of one
screeching;a high-pitched noise resembling a human cry. 'he ducked at the screechings of shells'. 'he heard the scream of the brakes'
crestless wave;the undulating movement of the surface of the open sea
miaou;the sound made by a cat (or any sound resembling this)
dash;a footrace run at top speed. 'he is preparing for the 100-yard dash'
moving ridge;one of a series of ridges that moves across the surface of a liquid (especially across a large body of water)
torrent;a violently fast stream of water (or other liquid). 'the houses were swept away in the torrent'
entrance;a movement into or inward
whistling;the sound made by something moving rapidly or by steam coming out of a small aperture
competition;an occasion on which a winner is selected from among two or more contestants
advance;a movement forward. 'he listened for the progress of the troops'
el nino;(oceanography) a weak warm ocean current that flows s off the coast of ecuador at christmas time
harmonic motion;a periodic motion in which the displacement is either symmetrical about a point or is the sum of such motions
burnup;(british slang) a high-speed motorcycle race on a public road
inferno;a very intense and uncontrolled fire
shutout;a game in which one side fails to score
marathon;a footrace of 26 miles 385 yards
cocktail party;an afternoon party at which cocktails are served
initiation;a formal entry into a position or office. 'his initiation into the club'. 'he was ordered to report for induction into the arm'
tocktact;steady recurrent ticking sound as made by a clock
downhill;a ski race down a trail
political campaign;a race between candidates for elective office
ebb;the outward flow of the tide
emergence;"the becoming visible. 'not a day's difference between the emergence of the andrenas and the opening of the willow catkins'"
twin bill;two instead of one
wildfire;an raging and rapidly spreading conflagration
muttering;a low continuous indistinct sound
head;forward movement. 'the ship made little headway against the gale'
whisper;the light noise like the noise of silk clothing or leaves blowing in the wind
climbing;an event that involves rising to a higher point (as in altitude or temperature or intensity etc.)
side;(sports) the spin given to a ball by striking it on one side or releasing it with a sharp twist
miaow;the sound made by a cat (or any sound resembling this)
mesh;contact by fitting together. 'the engagement of the clutch'. 'the meshing of gears'
scratch race;a race in which all contestant start from scratch (on equal terms)
tourney;a sporting competition in which contestants play a series of games to decide the winner
run;the pouring forth of a fluid
obstacle race;a race in which competitors must negotiate obstacles
contact;"the physical coming together of two or more things. 'contact with the pier scraped paint from the hull'"
submersion;covering completely with water
ringing;the sound of a bell ringing. 'the distinctive ring of the church bell'. 'the ringing of the telephone'. 'the tintinnabulation that so volumnously swells from the ringing and the dinging of the bells'--e. a. poe
hammer;an athletic competition in which a heavy metal ball that is attached to a flexible wire is hurled as far as possible
event;something that happens at a given place and time
dribble;the formation and falling of drops of liquid. 'there's a drip through the roof'
drop;a free and rapid descent by the force of gravity. 'it was a miracle that he survived the drop from that height'
dedication;a ceremony in which something (as a building) is dedicated to some goal or purpose
deflexion;the amount by which a propagating wave is bent
smudge;a smoky fire to drive away insects
rip current;a strong surface current flowing outwards from a shore
clickety clack;a fast and rhythmic click-clack. 'the clickety-clack of the typewriters'
sigh;a sound like a person sighing. 'she heard the sigh of the wind in the trees'
knock;a vigorous blow. 'the sudden knock floored him'. 'he took a bash right in his face'. 'he got a bang on the head'
flicker;a momentary flash of light
whispering;the light noise like the noise of silk clothing or leaves blowing in the wind
game;a single play of a game. 'the game lasted 2 hours'
fusion;an occurrence that involves the production of a union
brouhaha;loud confused noise from many sources
splat;a single splash. 'he heard a splat as it hit the floor'
click;a short light metallic sound
wrestling match;a match between wrestlers
wake;the wave that spreads behind a boat as it moves forward. 'the motorboat's wake capsized the canoe'
aegir;a high wave (often dangerous) caused by tidal flow (as by colliding tidal currents or in a narrow estuary)
birthday party;a party held on the anniversary of someone's birth
whitecap;a wave that is blown by the wind so its crest is broken and appears white
peep;the short weak cry of a young bird
pitter patter;a series of rapid tapping sounds. 'she missed the pitter-patter of little feet around the house'
neigh;the sound made by a horse
engagement;contact by fitting together. 'the engagement of the clutch'. 'the meshing of gears'
sack race;a novelty race in which competitors jump ahead with their feet confined in a sack
scraping;a harsh noise made by scraping. 'the scrape of violin bows distracted her'
throbbing;a sound with a strong rhythmic beat. 'the throbbing of the engines'
brownian movement;the random motion of small particles suspended in a gas or liquid
balefire;a large outdoor fire
uproar;loud confused noise from many sources
wedding ceremony;the social event at which the ceremony of marriage is performed
mew;the sound made by a cat (or any sound resembling this)
backspin;spin (usually of a moving ball) that retards or reverses the forward motion
howl;the long plaintive cry of a hound or a wolf
bleep;a short high tone produced as a signal or warning
cacophony;a loud harsh or strident noise
shreiking;a high-pitched noise resembling a human cry. 'he ducked at the screechings of shells'. 'he heard the scream of the brakes'
belmont stakes;an annual race for three-year-old horses. held on long island at elmont, new york
whirlpool;a powerful circular current of water (usually the resulting of conflicting tides)
skirl;the sound of (the chanter of) a bagpipe
zing;a brief high-pitched buzzing or humming sound: 'the zing of the passing bullet'
exercise;(usually plural) a ceremony that involves processions and speeches
knock;the sound of knocking (as on a door or in an engine or bearing)
din;a loud harsh or strident noise
backflowing;a flow that returns toward its source
flick;a light sharp contact (usually with something flexible). 'he gave it a flick with his finger' or 'he felt the flick of a whip'
red sprites;atmospheric electricity (lasting 10 msec) appearing as globular flashes of red (pink to blood-red) light rising to heights of 60 miles (sometimes seen together with elves)
streak;a sudden flash (as of lightning)
exudation;the process of exuding
horse race;a contest of speed between horses. usually held for the purpose of betting
raising;the event of something being raised
el nino southern oscillation;a more intense el nino that occurs every few years when the welling up of cold nutrient-rich water does not occur. kills plankton and fish and affects weather patterns
bang;a vigorous blow. 'the sudden knock floored him'. 'he took a bash right in his face'. 'he got a bang on the head'
plop;the noise of a rounded object dropping into a liquid without a splash
beep;a short high tone produced as a signal or warning
cock a doodle doo;an imitation of the crow of a cock
bay;the sound of a hound on the scent
ceremonial;a formal event performed on a special occasion. 'a ceremony commemorating pearl harbor'
swash;the movement or sound of water. 'the swash of waves on the beach'
submerging;covering completely with water
glimmer;a flash of light (especially reflected light)
eruption;a sudden very loud noise
seek;(computer science) the movement of a read/write head to a specific data track on a disk
whir;sound of something in rapid motion: 'whir of a bird's wings'. 'the whir of the propellers'
concussion;any violent blow or collision
forked lightning;a form of lightning that moves rapidly in a zigzag path with one end divided (fork-like)
falling;a free and rapid descent by the force of gravity. 'it was a miracle that he survived the drop from that height'
bending;movement that causes the formation of a curve
flow;the motion characteristic of fluids (liquids or gases)
doubleheader;two instead of one
thunder;a booming or crashing noise caused by air expanding along the path of a bolt of lightning
backlash;a movement back from an impact
jounce;a sudden impact. 'the door closed with a jolt'
cliffhanger;a contest whose outcome is uncertain up to the very end
eddy;a miniature whirlpool or whirlwind resulting when the current of a fluid doubles back on itself
elimination tournament;a tournament in which losers are eliminated in successive rounds
fountain;an artificially produced jet of water
creep;a slow longitudinal movement or deformation
meet;a meeting at which a number of athletic contests are held
twang;a sharp vibrating sound (as of a plucked string)
bend;movement that causes the formation of a curve
campaign for governor;a race for election to the governorship
final;the final match between the winners of all previous matches in an elimination tournament
fire;"the event of something burning (often destructive). 'they lost everything in the fire'"
overflowing;the occurrence of surplus liquid (as water) exceeding the limit or capacity
mix;an event that combines things in a mixture. 'a gradual mixture of cultures'
chattering;the rapid series of noises made by the parts of a machine
white horse;a wave that is blown by the wind so its crest is broken and appears white
roar;a deep prolonged loud noise
bash;an uproarious party
graduation exercise;an academic exercise in which diplomas are conferred
rise;a movement upward. 'they cheered the rise of the hot-air balloon'
volcanic eruption;the sudden occurrence of a violent discharge of steam and volcanic material
bolt;a discharge of lightning accompanied by thunder
rub a dub;the sound made by beating a drum
clangor;a loud resonant repeating noise. 'he could hear the clang of distant bells'
high jump;a competition that involves jumping as high as possible over a horizontal high bar
memorialization;a ceremony to honor the memory of someone or something
roller;a long heavy sea wave as it advances towards the shore
cup final;the final game of any cup competition. especially the annual final of the f.a.cup soccer competition at wembley
scream;a high-pitched noise resembling a human cry. 'he ducked at the screechings of shells'. 'he heard the scream of the brakes'
jolt;a sudden impact. 'the door closed with a jolt'
yelping;a sharp high-pitched cry (especially by a dog)
baa;the cry made by sheep
squeal;a high-pitched howl
dispersion;driving off or spreading widely
tictac;steady recurrent ticking sound as made by a clock
car race;a race between (usually high-performance) automobiles
sailing race;a race between crews of people in yachts
immersion;covering completely with water
commotion;confused movement. 'he was caught up in a whirl of work'. 'a commotion of people fought for the exits'
angelus;the sound of a bell rung in roman catholic churches to announce the time when the angelus should be recited
surf;waves breaking on the shore
diving event;an athletic competition that involves diving into water
spelling bee;a contest in which you are eliminated if you fail to spell a word correctly
twist;a miniature whirlpool or whirlwind resulting when the current of a fluid doubles back on itself
enthronization;the ceremony of installing a new monarch
deflection;the movement of the pointer or pen of a measuring instrument from its zero position
dissilience;the emergence of seeds as seed pods burst open when they are ripe
tidal bore;a high wave (often dangerous) caused by tidal flow (as by colliding tidal currents or in a narrow estuary)
kuroshio;a warm ocean current that flows ne off the coast of japan into the n pacific
blow;an impact (as from a collision). 'the bump threw him off the bicycle'
nightcap;the final game of a double header
superfetation;fertilization of a second ovum after a pregnancy has begun. results in two fetuses of different ages in the uterus at the same time. 'superfetation is normal in some animal species'
collision;an event in which two or more bodies come together
rally;an automobile race run over public roads
nerve impulse;the electrical discharge that travels along a nerve fiber. 'they demonstrated the transmission of impulses from the cortex to the hypothalamus'
racket;a loud and disturbing noise
going under;(of a ship) sinking
tidal wave;a huge destructive wave (especially one caused by an earthquake)
sparkle;the occurrence of a small flash or spark
playoff game;one game in the series of games constituting a playoff
conflagration;a very intense and uncontrolled fire
brownian motion;the random motion of small particles suspended in a gas or liquid
crackling;the sharp sound of snapping noises
rapid growth;a rapid rise
springtide;a swelling rush of anything. 'he rose on the springtide of prosperity'
thud;a heavy dull sound (as made by impact of heavy objects)
roll;a long heavy sea wave as it advances towards the shore
cross pollination;fertilization by transfer of pollen from the anthers of one flower to the stigma of another
campfire;a small outdoor fire for warmth or cooking (as at a camp)
grinding;a harsh and strident sound (as of the grinding of gears)
funeral;a ceremony at which a dead person is buried or cremated. 'hundreds of people attended his funeral'
crack;a sudden sharp noise. 'the crack of a whip'. 'he heard the cracking of the ice'
potato race;a novelty race in which competitors move potatoes from one place to another one at a time
circulation;free movement or passage especially through a circuit as of water through pipes or sap through a plant
deflexion;the movement of the pointer or pen of a measuring instrument from its zero position
approach;the event of one object coming closer to another
toot;a blast of a horn
whispering campaign;dissemination by word of mouth of derogatory charges against a candidate for public office
approaching;the event of one object coming closer to another
sea puss;the seaward undercurrent created after waves have broken on the shore
bas mitzvah;(judaism) an initiation ceremony marking the 12th birthday of a jewish girl and signifying the beginning of religious responsibility
glitter;the occurrence of a small flash or spark
affair;a vaguely specified social event. 'the party was quite an affair'
diffusion;the spread of social institutions (and myths and skills) from one society to another
rustling;the light noise like the noise of silk clothing or leaves blowing in the wind
boat race;a race between people rowing or driving boats
rising;a movement upward. 'they cheered the rise of the hot-air balloon'
slalom;a downhill race over a winding course defined by upright poles
ripple;a small wave on the surface of a liquid
stake race;a horse race in which part of the prize is put up by the owners of the horses in the race
corruscation;the occurrence of a small flash or spark
self pollination;fertilization by transfer of pollen from the anthers to the stigma of the same flower
spirt;the occurrence of a sudden discharge (as of liquid)
prizefight;a boxing match between professional boxers for a cash prize
egress;"the becoming visible. 'not a day's difference between the emergence of the andrenas and the opening of the willow catkins'"
roar;the sound made by a lion
wedding;the social event at which the ceremony of marriage is performed
match;a contest in which two or more persons or teams compete
issue;"the becoming visible. 'not a day's difference between the emergence of the andrenas and the opening of the willow catkins'"
meow;the sound made by a cat (or any sound resembling this)
drumbeat;the sound made by beating a drum
recoil;a movement back from an impact
bray;the cry of an ass
slap;a blow from a flat object (as an open hand)
race meeting;(british) a regular occasion on which a number of horse races are held on the same track. 'the epsom race meeting was an important social event'
lahar;an avalanche volcanic water and mud down the slopes of a volcano
spark;a momentary flash of light
thunderbolt;a discharge of lightning accompanied by thunder
sputter;the noise of something spattering or sputtering explosively. 'he heard a spatter of gunfire'
onrush;a forceful forward rush. 'it was forgotten in the onrush of events'
house party;a party lasting over one or more nights at a large house
series;the playoff for the baseball championship. 'we watched the wordl series on tv'
hurdle race;a footrace in which contestant must negotiate a series of hurdles
breaker;waves breaking on the shore
growl;the sound of growling (as made by animals)
lift;a wave that lifts the surface of the water or ground
humming;a humming noise. 'the hum of distant traffic'
sepulture;the ritual placing of a corpse in a grave
hit;an event in which two or more bodies come together
footfall;the sound of a step of someone walking. 'he heard footsteps on the porch'
strum;sound of strumming: 'the strum of a guitar'
charybdis;(greek mythology) a ship-devouring whirlpool lying on the other side of a narrow strait from scylla
gobble;the characteristic sound made by a turkey cock
sports meeting;a meeting at which a number of athletic contests are held
clunk;a heavy dull sound (as made by impact of heavy objects)
seepage;the process of seeping
transudation;the process of exuding
chain lightning;a form of lightning that moves rapidly in a zigzag path with one end divided (fork-like)
mile;a footrace extending one mile. 'he holds the record in the mile'
cross fertilization;fertilization by the union of male and female gametes from different individual of the same species
cackle;the sound made by a hen after laying an egg
chirrup;a series of chirps
self fertilization;fertilization by the union of male and female gametes from the same individual
progress;a movement forward. 'he listened for the progress of the troops'
dissipation;breaking up and scattering by dispersion. 'the dissipation of the mist'
riptide;a strong surface current flowing outwards from a shore
purr;a low vibrating sound typical of a contented cat
peal;a deep prolonged sound (as of thunder)
winter olympics;an olympics for winter sports
clamor;a loud harsh or strident noise
clangoring;a loud resonant repeating noise. 'he could hear the clang of distant bells'
shot put;an athletic competition in which a heavy metal ball is hurled as far as possible
stroke;a light touch
settling;a gradual sinking to a lower level
dip;a brief immersion
escape;the unwanted discharge of a fluid from some container. 'they tried to stop the escape of gas from the damaged pipe'. 'he had to clean up the leak'
murmuration;a low continuous indistinct sound
pole jumping;a competition that involves jumping over a high crossbar with the aid of a long pole
backfire;a loud noise made by the explosion of fuel in the manifold or exhaust of an internal combustion engine
swish;a brushing or rustling sound
knocking;the sound of knocking (as on a door or in an engine or bearing)
spike;a transient variation in voltage or current
roll;the sound of a drum (especially a snare drum) beaten rapidly and continuously
tinkle;a light clear metallic sound as of a small bell
turn;a movement in a new direction. 'the turning of the wind'
fluxion;a flow or discharge
cry;the characteristic utterance of an animal. 'animal cries filled the night'
pounding;repeated heavy blows
plunge;a steep drop
flash;"a sudden intense burst of radiant energy"
deflection;the amount by which a propagating wave is bent
swerve;an erratic deflection from an intended course
whirr;sound of something in rapid motion: 'whir of a bird's wings'. 'the whir of the propellers'
boxing match;a match between boxers. usually held in a boxing ring
landslide;a slide of a large mass of dirt and rock down a mountain or cliff
rebound;a movement back from an impact
light touch;momentary contact
tea party;a party at which tea is served
smash;a vigorous blow. 'the sudden knock floored him'. 'he took a bash right in his face'. 'he got a bang on the head'
howl;a loud sustained noise resembling the cry of a hound. 'the howl of the wind made him restless'
chink;a short light metallic sound
yaw;an erratic deflection from an intended course
tournament;a series of jousts between knights contesting for a prize
submergence;covering completely with water
contest;an occasion on which a winner is selected from among two or more contestants
flush;a sudden rapid flow (as of water). 'he heard the flush of a toilet'. 'there was a little gush of blood'. 'she attacked him with an outpouring of words'
caw;the sound made by corvine birds
jangle;a loud resonant repeating noise. 'he could hear the clang of distant bells'
swimming meet;a swimming competition between two or more teams
trampling;the sound of trampling
blaring;a loud harsh or strident noise
semifinal;one of the two competitions in the next to the last round of an elimination tournament
cross country;a long race run over open country
surface fire;a forest fire that burns only the surface litter and undergrowth
sputtering;the noise of something spattering or sputtering explosively. 'he heard a spatter of gunfire'
merger;an occurrence that involves the production of a union
gymkhana;a meet at which riders and horses display a range of skills and aptitudes
inaugural;the ceremonial induction into a position. 'the new president obviously enjoyed his inauguration'
ooze;the process of seeping
noise;sound of any kind (especially unintelligible or dissonant sound). 'he enjoyed the street noises'. 'they heard indistinct noises of people talking'
murmuring;a low continuous indistinct sound
bicycle race;a race between people riding bicycles
yacht race;a race between crews of people in yachts
rumble;a loud low dull continuous noise. 'they heard the rumbling of thunder'
commencement ceremony;an academic exercise in which diplomas are conferred
bang;a sudden very loud noise
rattle;a rapid series of short loud sounds
olympiad;the modern revival of the ancient games held once every 4 years in a selected country
rockslide;a landslide of rocks
atomic explosion;the explosion of an atomic bomb
bark;a noise resembling the bark of a dog
bonfire;a large outdoor fire
whistle;the sound made by something moving rapidly or by steam coming out of a small aperture
scrape;a harsh noise made by scraping. 'the scrape of violin bows distracted her'
fertilisation;creation by the union of sperm or pollen with an animal or plant or egg cell
rededication;a new dedication. 'the rededication of the temple of jerusalem'
gargle;the sound produced while gargling
chariot race;a race between ancient chariots
preliminary;a minor match preceding the main event
rhonchus;the rattling noise produced when snoring
fire walking;the ceremony of walking barefoot over hot stones or a bed of embers
field trial;a contest between gun dogs to determine their proficiency in pointing and retrieving
squirt;the occurrence of a sudden discharge (as of liquid)
ceremonial occasion;a formal event performed on a special occasion. 'a ceremony commemorating pearl harbor'
pageant;a rich and spectacular ceremony
clatter;a rattling noise (often produced by rapid movement). 'the shutters clattered against the house'. 'the clatter of iron wheels on cobblestones'
cam stroke;the maximum movement available to a pivoted or reciprocating piece by a cam
breakers;waves breaking on the shore
decathlon;an athletic contest consisting of ten different events
eruption;the sudden occurrence of a violent discharge of steam and volcanic material
bow wow;the bark of a dog
rat a tat tat;a series of short sharp noises (as made by strokes on a drum or knocks on a door)
amplitude;(physics) the maximum displacement of a periodic wave
intrusion;any entry into an area not previously occupied. 'an invasion of tourists'. 'an invasion of locusts'. 'a viral invasion'
tootle;sound of tooting softly and repeatedly as on a flute
nuclear explosion;the explosion of an atomic bomb
jet;the occurrence of a sudden discharge (as of liquid)
clickety click;a fast and rhythmic click-clack. 'the clickety-clack of the typewriters'
cockfight;a match in a cockpit between two fighting cocks heeled with metal gaffs
tweet;a week chirping sound as of a small bird
english;(sports) the spin given to a ball by striking it on one side or releasing it with a sharp twist
prelim;a minor match preceding the main event
progression;a movement forward. 'he listened for the progress of the troops'
backflow;a flow that returns toward its source
flowing;the motion characteristic of fluids (liquids or gases)
spin;a swift whirling motion (usually of a missile)
chorus;any utterance produced simultaneously by a group. 'a chorus of boos'
riffle;a small wave on the surface of a liquid
tremolo;vocal vibrato especially an excessive or poorly controlled one
installation;a formal entry into a position or office. 'his initiation into the club'. 'he was ordered to report for induction into the arm'
stridulation;a shrill grating or chirping noise made by some insects by rubbing body parts together
reversal;turning in an opposite direction or position. 'the reversal of the image in the lens'
undercurrent;a current below the surface of a fluid
open;a tournament in which both professionals and amateurs may playopens a stream to the file specified by filename, which may be a string, a pathname, a logical pathname, or a stream.
spate;a sudden forceful flow
backblast;backfire from a recoilless weapon
clump;a heavy dull sound (as made by impact of heavy objects)
special olympics;an athletic contest modeled after the olympic games but intended for mentally or physically handicapped persons
wave;one of a series of ridges that moves across the surface of a liquid (especially across a large body of water)
javelin;an athletic competition in which a javelin is thrown as far as possible
diaspora;the dispersion of the jews from palestine after the babylonian exile (358 bc)
spate;the occurrence of a water flow resulting from sudden rain or melting snow
grunt;the short low gruff noise of the kind made by pigs
observance;a formal event performed on a special occasion. 'a ceremony commemorating pearl harbor'
outstroke;the stroke of an engine piston moving toward the crankshaft
runoff;the occurrence of surplus liquid (as water) exceeding the limit or capacity
creation;"the event that occured at the beginning of something. 'from its creation the plan was doomed to failure'"
automobile race;a race between (usually high-performance) automobiles
whirring;sound of something in rapid motion: 'whir of a bird's wings'. 'the whir of the propellers'
roaring;a deep prolonged loud noise
claiming race;a horse race in which each owner declares before the race at what price his horse will be offered for sale fater the race
pop;a sharp explosive sound as from a gunshot or drawing a cork
social event;"an event characteristic of persons forming groups"
overflow;the occurrence of surplus liquid (as water) exceeding the limit or capacity
spatter;the noise of something spattering or sputtering explosively. 'he heard a spatter of gunfire'
quaver;a tremulous sound
graduation;an academic exercise in which diplomas are conferred
arms race;a competition between nations to have the most powerful armaments
shift;an event in which something is displaced without rotation
wobble;a rocking motion
superfecundation;fertilization of two or more ova released during the same menstrual cycle by sperm from separate acts of coitus (especially by different males)
cup tie;an eliminating game between teams in a cup competition
swimming event;an athletic competition that involves swimming
lightning;the flash of light that accompanies an electric discharge in the atmosphere (or something resembling such a flash). can scintillate for a second or more
plunk;a hollow twanging sound
pageantry;a rich and spectacular ceremony
striking;"the physical coming together of two or more things. 'contact with the pier scraped paint from the hull'"
whinny;the sound made by a horse
thump;a heavy dull sound (as made by impact of heavy objects)
consolidation;combining into a solid mass
track event;a footrace performed on a track (indoor or outdoor)
jet;an artificially produced jet of water
eruption;the emergence of a tooth as it breaks through the gum
yelp;a sharp high-pitched cry (especially by a dog)
quack;the harsh sound of a duck
impulse;the electrical discharge that travels along a nerve fiber. 'they demonstrated the transmission of impulses from the cortex to the hypothalamus'
combining;an occurrence that results in things being combined
shriek;a high-pitched noise resembling a human cry. 'he ducked at the screechings of shells'. 'he heard the scream of the brakes'
click clack;a succession of clicks
rap;a gentle blow
elevation;the event of something being raised
backwash;the wave that spreads behind a boat as it moves forward. 'the motorboat's wake capsized the canoe'
leakage;the unwanted discharge of a fluid from some container. 'they tried to stop the escape of gas from the damaged pipe'. 'he had to clean up the leak'
thing;"an event: 'a funny thing happened on the way to the...'"
bleat;the sound of sheep or goats (or any sound resembling this)
creak;a squeaking sound. 'the creak of the floorboards gave him away'
footrace;a race run on foot. 'she broke the record for the half-mile run'
fecundation;creation by the union of sperm or pollen with an animal or plant or egg cell
grassfire;an uncontrolled fire in a grassy area
chattering;the high-pitched continuing noise made by animals (birds or monkeys)
road game;a game played away from home
clangour;a loud resonant repeating noise. 'he could hear the clang of distant bells'
volution;a rolling or revolving motion
interlocking;contact by fitting together. 'the engagement of the clutch'. 'the meshing of gears'
ding dong;the noise made by a bell
scattering;driving off or spreading widely
tapping;the sound of light blow or knock. 'he heard the tapping of the man's cane'
bash;a vigorous blow. 'the sudden knock floored him'. 'he took a bash right in his face'. 'he got a bang on the head'
quarterfinal;one of the four competitions in an elimination tournament whose winners go on to play in the semifinals
crash;a loud resonant repeating noise. 'he could hear the clang of distant bells'
combine;an occurrence that results in things being combined
decrepitation;the crackling or breaking up of certain crystals when they are heated
discharge;"the sudden giving off of energy"
growth;"the gradual beginning or coming forth. 'figurines presage the emergence of sculpture in greece'"
sheet lighting;lightning that appears as a broad sheet. due to reflections of more distant lightning and to diffusion by the clouds
enthronement;the ceremony of installing a new monarch
steeplechase;a horse race over an obstructed course
outgrowth;"the gradual beginning or coming forth. 'figurines presage the emergence of sculpture in greece'"
wave;something that rises rapidly and dies away. 'a wave of emotion swept over him'. 'there was a sudden wave of buying before the market closed'
test match;an international championship match
carom;a glancing rebound
gulf stream;a warm ocean current that flows from the gulf of mexico northward through the atlantic ocean
rale;the crackling sound heard on auscultation when patients with respiratory diseases inhale
combination;an occurrence that results in things being combined
plash;the sound like water splashing
rumbling;a loud low dull continuous noise. 'they heard the rumbling of thunder'
coming back;the occurrence of a change in direction back in the opposite direction
slide;(geology) the descent of a large mass of earth or rocks or snow etc.
fall;a movement downward. 'the rise and fall of the tides'
twitter;a series of chirps
party;an occasion on which people can assemble for social interaction and entertainment. 'he planned a party to celebrate bastille day'
pollination;transfer of pollen from the anther to the stigma of a plant
pant;the noise made by a short puff of steam (as from an engine)
hammer throw;an athletic competition in which a heavy metal ball that is attached to a flexible wire is hurled as far as possible
broad jump;a competition that involves jumping as far as possible from a running start
discus;an athletic competition in which a disc-shaped object is thrown as far as possible
leak;the unwanted discharge of a fluid from some container. 'they tried to stop the escape of gas from the damaged pipe'. 'he had to clean up the leak'
surge;a large sea wave
playoff;any final competition to determine a championship
smoulder;a smouldering fire. 'the smoulder became a blaze'
trample;the sound of trampling
refraction;the amount by which a propagating wave is bent
impact;the striking of one body against another
flux;a flow or discharge
round robin;a tournament in which every contestant plays every other contestant
uplift;(geology) a rise of land to a higher elevation (as in the process of mountain building)
undertide;a current below the surface of a fluid
olympics;the modern revival of the ancient games held once every 4 years in a selected country
pole vaulting;a competition that involves jumping over a high crossbar with the aid of a long pole
spattering;the noise of something spattering or sputtering explosively. 'he heard a spatter of gunfire'
flood;the inward flow of the tide. 'a tide in the affairs of men which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune' -shakespeare
knell;the sound of a bell rung slowly to announce a death or a funeral or the end of something
do;an uproarious party
belt;a vigorous blow. 'the sudden knock floored him'. 'he took a bash right in his face'. 'he got a bang on the head'
ring;the sound of a bell ringing. 'the distinctive ring of the church bell'. 'the ringing of the telephone'. 'the tintinnabulation that so volumnously swells from the ringing and the dinging of the bells'--e. a. poe
clang;a loud resonant repeating noise. 'he could hear the clang of distant bells'
trial;(sports) a preliminary competition to determine qualifications. 'the trials for the semifinals began yesterday'
crepitation rale;the crackling sound heard on auscultation when patients with respiratory diseases inhale
ping;a sharp high-pitched metallic sound
change of location;a movement through space that changes the location of something
violent stream;a violently fast stream of water (or other liquid). 'the houses were swept away in the torrent'
chatter;the rapid series of noises made by the parts of a machine
screaming;a high-pitched noise resembling a human cry. 'he ducked at the screechings of shells'. 'he heard the scream of the brakes'
plonk;the noise of something dropping (as into liquid)
plump;the sound of a sudden heavy fall
senate campaign;a race for election to the senate
undertow;the seaward undercurrent created after waves have broken on the shore
ting;a light clear metallic sound as of a small bell
zoom;a rapid rise
outpouring;the pouring forth of a fluid
crepitation;the sharp sound of snapping noises
heavy swell;a broad and deep undulation of the ocean
bump;an impact (as from a collision). 'the bump threw him off the bicycle'
squeeze;a twisting squeeze: 'gave the wet cloth a wring'
shock;any violent blow or collision
electrical discharge;a discharge of electricity
honk;the cry of a goose (or any sound resembling this)
landslip;a slide of a large mass of dirt and rock down a mountain or cliff
seapoose;the seaward undercurrent created after waves have broken on the shore
tintinnabulation;the sound of a bell ringing. 'the distinctive ring of the church bell'. 'the ringing of the telephone'. 'the tintinnabulation that so volumnously swells from the ringing and the dinging of the bells'--e. a. poe
pat;the sound made by a gentle blow
race;any competition. 'the race for the presidency'
cracking;a sudden sharp noise. 'the crack of a whip'. 'he heard the cracking of the ice'
long jump;a competition that involves jumping as far as possible from a running start
shock wave;a region of high pressure travelling through a gas at a high velocity
grumble;a loud low dull continuous noise. 'they heard the rumbling of thunder'
feast;something experienced with great delight. 'a feast for the eyes'
sprites;atmospheric electricity (lasting 10 msec) appearing as globular flashes of red (pink to blood-red) light rising to heights of 60 miles (sometimes seen together with elves)
stampede;a wild headlong rush of frightened animals (horses or cattle)
bat mitzvah;(judaism) an initiation ceremony marking the 12th birthday of a jewish girl and signifying the beginning of religious responsibility
spelling contest;a contest in which you are eliminated if you fail to spell a word correctly
athletics;a contest between athletes
foundering;(of a ship) sinking
gurgle;the bubbling sound of water flowing from a bottle with a narrow neck
preakness;an annual race for three-year-old horses. held at pimlico in baltimore, maryland
heave;(geology) a horizontal dislocation
buffeting;repeated heavy blows
rush;a sudden forceful flow
chicken;a foolhardy competition. a dangerous activity that is continued until one competitor becomes afraid and stops
song;a distinctive or characteristic sound. 'the song of bullets was in the air'. 'the song of the wind'. 'the wheels sang their song as the train rocketed ahead'
heave;an upward movement (especially a rhythmical rising and falling). 'the heaving of waves on a rough sea'
coo;the sound made by a pigeon
skiing race;a race between people wearing skis
splatter;the noise of something spattering or sputtering explosively. 'he heard a spatter of gunfire'
gleaming;a flash of light (especially reflected light)
swell;the undulating movement of the surface of the open sea
rap;the sound made by a gentle blow
interment;the ritual placing of a corpse in a grave
hiss;a fricative sound uttered as an expression of dislike or contempt. 'the performers could not be heard over the hissing of the audience'
rolling;a deep prolonged sound (as of thunder)
upthrow;(geology) a rise of land to a higher elevation (as in the process of mountain building)
blue jets;atmospheric discharges (lasting 10 msec) bursting from the tops of giant storm clouds in blue cones that widen as they flash upward
occasion;a vaguely specified social event. 'the party was quite an affair'
autogamy;sellf-fertilization in plants
wallow;an indolent or clumsy rolling about: 'a good wallow in the water'
growling;the sound of growling (as made by animals)
water hammer;the banging sound of steam in pipes
surge;a sudden forceful flow
exhibition game;a game whose outcome is not recorded in the season's standing
descent;a movement downward
blast;an explosion (as of dynamite)
recoil;the backward jerk of a gun when it is fired
