lancastrian line;the english royal house that reigned from 1399 to 1461. its emblem was a red rose
descendants;"all of the offspring of a given progenitor. 'we must secure the benefits of freedom for ourselves and our posterity'"
color;a race with skin pigmentation different from the white race (especially blacks)
ancestry;the descendants of one individual. 'his entire lineage has been warriors'
royal family;royal persons collectively
indian race;usually included in the mongoloid race
posterity;all future generations
baby boom;the larger than expected generation in us born shortly after world war ii
married couple;two people who are married to each other. 'his second marriage was happier than the first'. 'a married couple without love'
negroid race;a dark-skinned race
people of colour;a race with skin pigmentation different from the white race (especially blacks)
romanov;the russian imperial line that ruled from 1613 to 1917
lineage;the descendants of one individual. 'his entire lineage has been warriors'
house of tudor;an english royal family descended from owen tudor. tudor monarchs ruled from henry vii to elizabeth i (from 1485 to 1603)
negro race;a dark-skinned race
house of hanover;the english royal house that reigned from 1714 to 1901
parentage;the descendants of one individual. 'his entire lineage has been warriors'
hanoverian line;the english royal house that reigned from 1714 to 1901
marriage;two people who are married to each other. 'his second marriage was happier than the first'. 'a married couple without love'
dynasty;a sequence of powerful leaders in the same family
stuart;the royal family that ruled scotland and england
name;family based on male descent. 'he had no sons and there was no one to carry on his name'
white race;a light-skinned race
slavic people;a race of people speaking a slavonic language
genealogy;successive generations of kin
blood line;the descendants of one individual. 'his entire lineage has been warriors'
colour;a race with skin pigmentation different from the white race (especially blacks)
bourbon;a european royal line that ruled in france and spain and naples and sicily
caucasian race;a light-skinned race
plantagenet;the family name of a line of english kings that reigned from 1154 to 1485
hanover;the english royal house that reigned from 1714 to 1901
caucasoid race;a light-skinned race
man and wife;two people who are married to each other. 'his second marriage was happier than the first'. 'a married couple without love'
totem;a clan identified by their kinship to a common totemic object
posterity;"all of the offspring of a given progenitor. 'we must secure the benefits of freedom for ourselves and our posterity'"
line of descent;the descendants of one individual. 'his entire lineage has been warriors'
kin group;"group of people related by blood or marriage"
family tree;successive generations of kin
pedigree;the descendants of one individual. 'his entire lineage has been warriors'
race;people who are believed to belong to the same genetic stock. "some biologists doubt that there are important genetic differences between races of human beings"
match;a pair of people who live together. 'a married couple from chicago'
side;a family line of descent. 'he gets his brains from his father's side'
house of lancaster;the english royal house that reigned from 1399 to 1461. its emblem was a red rose
phratry;people descended from a common ancestor. 'his family had lived in masachusetts since the mayflower'
breed;a special lineage. 'a breed of americans'
sept;people descended from a common ancestor. 'his family had lived in masachusetts since the mayflower'
mates;a pair of people who live together. 'a married couple from chicago'
origin;the descendants of one individual. 'his entire lineage has been warriors'
lancaster;the english royal house that reigned from 1399 to 1461. its emblem was a red rose
hapsburg;a royal german family that provided rulers for several european states and wore the crown of the holy roman empire from 1440 to 1806
couple;a pair of people who live together. 'a married couple from chicago'
kinsfolk;people descended from a common ancestor. 'his family had lived in masachusetts since the mayflower'
mongoloid race;an asian race
house of windsor;the british royal family since 1917
habsburg;a royal german family that provided rulers for several european states and wore the crown of the holy roman empire from 1440 to 1806
family unit;primary social group. parents and children. 'he wanted to have a good job before starting a family'
tudor;an english royal family descended from owen tudor. tudor monarchs ruled from henry vii to elizabeth i (from 1485 to 1603)
slavic race;a race of people speaking a slavonic language
amerindian race;usually included in the mongoloid race
royal line;royal persons collectively
stock;the descendants of one individual. 'his entire lineage has been warriors'
royalty;royal persons collectively
people of color;a race with skin pigmentation different from the white race (especially blacks)
kindred;"group of people related by blood or marriage"
hohenzollern;a german noble family that ruled brandenburg and prussia
royal house;royal persons collectively
gens;family based on male descent. 'he had no sons and there was no one to carry on his name'
romanoff;the russian imperial line that ruled from 1613 to 1917
plantagenet line;the family name of a line of english kings that reigned from 1154 to 1485
descent;the descendants of one individual. 'his entire lineage has been warriors'
kin;"group of people related by blood or marriage"
windsor;the british royal family since 1917
family;people descended from a common ancestor. 'his family had lived in masachusetts since the mayflower'
kinship group;"group of people related by blood or marriage"
york;the english royal house (a branch of the plantagenet line) that reigned from 1461 to 1485. its emblem was a white rose
black race;a dark-skinned race
blood;the descendants of one individual. 'his entire lineage has been warriors'
yellow race;an asian race
folk;people descended from a common ancestor. 'his family had lived in masachusetts since the mayflower'
people;members of a family line. 'his people have been farmers for generations'. 'are your people still alive?'
line;the descendants of one individual. 'his entire lineage has been warriors'
folks;your parents. 'he wrote to his folks every day'
house;aristocratic family line. 'the house of york'
homefolk;the people of your home locality (especially your own family). 'he wrote his homefolk every day'
generation;"group of genetically related organisms constituting a single step in the line of descent"
herrenvolk;a race that considers itself superior to all others and fitted to rule the others
house of york;the english royal house (a branch of the plantagenet line) that reigned from 1461 to 1485. its emblem was a white rose
tribe;"group of people related by blood or marriage"
kinfolk;people descended from a common ancestor. 'his family had lived in masachusetts since the mayflower'
family;primary social group. parents and children. 'he wanted to have a good job before starting a family'
clan;"group of people related by blood or marriage"
master race;a race that considers itself superior to all others and fitted to rule the others
family line;people descended from a common ancestor. 'his family had lived in masachusetts since the mayflower'
bloodline;the descendants of one individual. 'his entire lineage has been warriors'
indian race;sometimes included in the caucasian race. native to the subcontinent of india
mongolian race;an asian race
