sea of okhotsk;an arm of the pacific east of asia
moor;open land usually with peaty soil covered with heather and bracken and moss
okinawa;the largest island of the central ryukyu islands
chios;an island in the aegean sea off the west coast of turkey. belongs to greece
moorland;open land usually with peaty soil covered with heather and bracken and moss
barbados;a british colony in the west_indies about 300 miles north of venezuela. a popular resort area
kura river;a river in western asia. rises in northeast turkey and flows to the caspian sea
crimea;a ukrainian peninsula between the black sea and the sea of azov
american falls;a part of niagara falls in western new york (north of buffalo)
malay archipelago;a group of islands in the indian and pacific oceans between asia and australia
foreland;land forming the forward margin of something
neosho river;a river that rises in eastern kansas and flows eastward into oklahoma to become a tributary of the arkansas river
krakatoa;a small volcanic island in indonesia between java and sumatra. its violent eruption in 1883 was the greatest in recorded history
bonaire;a popular island resort in the netherlands antilles
tobago;island in west indies
tugela;a major waterfall in southern africa. has more than one leap
arkansas river;a river that rises in the rocky mountains in colorado and flows southeast through kansas and oklahoma and through arkansas to become a tributary of the mississippi river
harlem river;a channel separating manhattan from the bronx
new guinea;a pacific island north of australia. the 2nd largest island in the world. governed by australia and indonesia
straits of dover;the strait between the english channel and the north sea. shortest distance between england and the european continent
polynesia;the islands in the eastern part of oceania
tongue;a narrow strip of land that juts out into the sea
canadian;a river rising in northeastern new mexico and flowing eastward across the texas panhandle to become a tributary of the arkansas river in oklahoma
mackenzie;a canadian river. flows into the beaufort sea
suriname river;a river in suriname that flows northward to the atlantic
st. kitts;the largest of the islands comprising saint christopher-nevis
chiloe;the largest chilean island and the only one to be settled. located off south-central chile
sherwood forest;an ancient forest in central england. formerly a royal hunting ground. said to be the home of robin hood and his merry band
kalimantan;3rd largest island in the world. in the western pacific north of java. largely covered by dense jungle and rain forest. part of the malay archipelago
river lethe;(greek mythology) a river in hades. the souls of the dead had to drink from it, which made them forget all they had done and suffered when they were alive
snake;a tributary of the columbia river
hudson;a new york river. flows southward into new york bay. explored by henry hudson in early 1600s
faroe islands;a group of 21 volcanic islands in the north atlantic between iceland and the shetland islands
brazos;a north american river. flows into the gulf of mexico
don;a european river in southwestern russia. flows into the sea of azov
antigua;the largest of the islands comprising antigua and barbuda
bismarck archipelago;a group of islands in the southwestern pacific northeast of new guinea
branch;a stream or river connected to a larger one
arno;a river in central italy rising in the apennines and flowing through florence and pisa to the ligurian sea
colorado river;a river in southwestern united states. rises in the rocky mountains of northern colorado and flows southwest through utah into arizona (where it flows through the grand canyon) and then southward forming the border between california and arizona and finally into mexico where it empties into the gulf of california. an important source of water in the southwestern united states
crete;the largest greek island in the mediterranean. site of the minoan civilization that reached its peak in 1600 bc
hwang ho;a major river of asia. flows into the yellow sea
arabian sea;a northwestern arm of the indian ocean between india and arabia
bay of bengal;an arm of the indian ocean east of india
ireland;an island comprising the republic of ireland and northern ireland
adriatic;an arm of the mediterranean between yugoslavia and albania on the east and italy on the west
bosporus;a strait connecting the mediterranean and the black sea. separates the european and asian parts of turkey. an important shipping route
congo river;a major african river (one of the world's longest). flows through zaire into the south atlantic
society islands;an island group of french polynesia in the s pacific east of samoa
atlantic ocean;the 2nd largest ocean. separates north and south america on the west from europe and africa on the east
irtish;an asian river. tributary of the ob river
river;a large natural stream of water (larger than a creek). 'the river was navigable for 50 miles'
sinai peninsula;a peninsula in northeastern egypt. at north end of red sea
st. eustatius;an island in the netherlands antilles
antilles;a group of islands in the west indies
maui;the second largest of the hawaiian islands
new zealand;north island and south island and adjacent small islands
loch;scottish and irish words for lake
coastal plain;a plain adjacent to a coast
pinetum;an area planted with pine trees or related conifers
nihau island;the most northwestern hawaiian island (beyond kauai)
bali;an island in indonesia east of java. striking volcanic scenery. culture is known for elaborate dances and rituals and for handicrafts
mainland;the main land mass of a country or continent. as distinguished from an island or peninsula
falls;a steep descent of the water of a river
darling;an australian river. tributary of the murray river
rhine;a major european river carrying more traffic than any other river in the world. flows into the north sea
elbe;a river in central europe that arises in northwestern czechoslovakia and flows northward through germany to empty into the north sea
labrador ungava peninsula;a peninsular region of eastern canada
east river;a tidal strait separating manhattan and the bronx from queens and brooklyn
lesbos;an island of eastern greece in the aegean sea. in antiquity it was famous for its lyric poetry
hayti;an island in the west indies
victoria falls;a waterfall in the zambezi river on the zimbabwe-zambia border. diminishes seasonally
arabian peninsula;a peninsula between the red sea and the persian gulf. strategically important for its oil resources
aegadean isles;a group of islands southwest of italy in the mediterranean
neckar river;a river in germany. rises in the black forest and flows north into the rhine
peninsula;a large mass of land projecting into a body of water
geographic point;a point on the surface of the earth
indus river;an asian river. flows into the arabian sea
champaign;extensive tract of level open land. 'they emerged from the woods onto a vast open plain'. 'he longed for the fields of his youth'
limpopo;an african river. flows into the indian ocean
china;a government on the island of taiwan established in 1949 by chiang kaishek after the conquest of mainland china by communists led by mao zedong
oahu;an island of central hawaii (between molokai and kauai). the chief island of the state
western isles;a group of more than 500 islands off the western coast of scotland
maldive islands;a group of about 2000 islands in the indian ocean
baltic sea;a sea in northern europe. stronghold of the russian navy
isere river;a river in southeastern france. a tributary of the rhone
isle;a small island
iguazu falls;a large waterfall on the argentine-brazil border
bay of campeche;a bay of the gulf of mexico. formed by the yucatan peninsula
osage;a river in missouri that is a tributary of the missouri river
nevis;one of the islands of saint christopher-nevis
cuquenan;a famous waterfall in venezuela
fiji islands;a group of more than 800 islands in the southwestern pacific. larger islands (viti levu and vanua levu) are of volcanic origin surrounded by coral reefs. smaller islands are coral
virgin islands;a group of islands in northeastern west indies (east of puerto rico) discovered by christopher columbus in 1493. owned by united states and britain
spit;a narrow strip of land that juts out into the sea
saint christopher;the largest of the islands comprising saint christopher-nevis
cumberland;a river that rises in southeastern kentucky and flows westward through northern tennessee to become a tributary of the ohio river in southwestern kentucky
vistula river;a european river. flows into the baltic sea
great lakes;a group of 5 lakes in central north america
tyne;a river in northern england that flows east to the north sea
sete quedas;a great waterfall on the brazil-paraguay border
snake river;a tributary of the columbia river
guam;the largest and southernmost island in the marianas
gilbert islands;a group of islands in micronesia southwest of hawaii. formerly part of the british colony of gilbert and ellice islands until it became part of the republic of kiribati in 1979
plata river;an estuary between argentina and uruguay
ryukyu islands;a chain of 55 islands in the western pacific southwest of japan (returned by united states to japan in 1972)
yosemite falls;a series of waterfalls in yosemite national park in california. is reduced to a trickle for part of each year
tiber;a river of central italy. flows through rome to the tyrrhenian sea
cimarron;a river that rises in northeastern new mexico and flows eastward into oklahoma where it becomes a tributary of the arkansas river
runnel;a small stream
body of water;"the part of the earth's surface covered with water. 'they invaded our territorial waters'"
lake aral;a lake east of the caspian sea lying between kazakhstan and uzbekistan
tigris river;an asian river. a tributary of the euphrates river
canaries;a group of mountainous islands in the atlantic off the northwest coast of africa forming spanish provinces
ladrone islands;a chain of coral and volcanic islands in micronesia halfway between new guinea and japan
gulf of aqaba;a northeastern arm of the red sea. between the sinai peninsula (egypt) and saudi arabia
porto rico;the smallest and easternmost of the greater antilles in the caribbean
tuamotu archipelago;a group of about 80 coral islands in french polynesia
lake ontario;the smallest of the great lakes
strait of gibraltar;the strait between spain and africa
seine river;a french river that flows through the heart of paris and then northward into the english channel
korea;an asian peninsula (off manchuria) separating the yellow sea and the sea of japan. the korean name is choson
slash;an open tract of land in a forest that is strewn with debris from logging (or fire or wind)
greater antilles;a group of islands in the western west indies
zealand;the largest island of denmark and the site of copenhagen
ouachita;a river that rises in western arkansas and flows southeast into eastern louisiana to become a tributary of the red river
creek;a natural stream of water smaller than a river (and often a tributary of a river). 'the creek dried up every summer'
rio grande;a north american river. boundary between the united states and mexico. flows into gulf of mexico
river styx;(greek mythology) a river in hades across which charon carried dead souls
pond;a small lake. 'the pond was too small for sailing'
rio de la plata;an estuary between argentina and uruguay
formosa;a government on the island of taiwan established in 1949 by chiang kaishek after the conquest of mainland china by communists led by mao zedong
mariana islands;a chain of coral and volcanic islands in micronesia halfway between new guinea and japan
salmon;a tributary of the snake river
hebridean islands;a group of more than 500 islands off the western coast of scotland
aegean;an arm of the mediterranean between greece and turkey. a main trade route for the ancient civilizations of crete and greece and rome and persia
leeward islands;a group of islands in the eastern west indies
neckar;a river in germany. rises in the black forest and flows north into the rhine
danube;the 2nd longest european river. flows into the black sea
twin;a waterfall in the snake river in southern idaho
paulo afonso;a major waterfall in northeastern brazil
antarctic continent;an extremely cold continent at the south pole almost entirely below the antarctic circle. covered by an ice cap up to 13,000 feet deep
saone river;a river in eastern france. rises in lorraine and flows south to become the chief tributary of the rhone
falkland islands;a group of over 100 islands in the s atlantic off the coast of argentina. a british crown colony
st. lawrence;a north american river. flows into the gulf of saint lawrence and the north atlantic
wake;an island in the western pacific between guam and hawaii
martinique;an island in the eastern caribbean in the windward islands. administered as an overseas region of france
caroline islands;a long archipelago of more than 500 islands in micronesia east of the philippines
sea of azov;a bay of the black sea
comoro islands;three main islands and numerous islets in the indian ocean between mozambique and madagascar
columbia;a north american river. rises in southwestern canada and flows southward across washington to form the border between washington and oregon before emptying into the pacific. known for its salmon runs in the spring
deep;an especially deep part of a sea or ocean
kiang;the longest river of asia. flows eastward from tibet into the east china sea near shanghai
inner hebrides;islands between the outer hebrides and the western coast of scotland
saba;a island in the netherlands antilles that is the top of an extinct volcano
hawaii island;the largest and southernmost of the hawaii islands. has several volcanic peaks
st. francis river;a tributary of the mississippi river
lemnos;a greek island in the northern aegean sea. famous for a reddish-brown clay that has medicinal properties
seeland;the largest island of denmark and the site of copenhagen
celebes;a mountainous island in eastern indonesia
peloponnese;the southern peninsula of greece. dominated by sparta until the 4th century bc
st. lawrence river;a north american river. flows into the gulf of saint lawrence and the north atlantic
distributary;a branch that flows away from the main stream
ob river;a russian river. flows northward to the arctic ocean
martha s vineyard;an island summer resort off of cape cod
sea of cortes;a gulf west of mexico
purus;a brazilian river. tributary of the amazon river
stream;a natural body of running water flowing on or under the earth
snowfield;a permanent wide expanse of snow
seine;a french river that flows through the heart of paris and then northward into the english channel
platte;a river in nebraska that flows eastward to become a tributary of the missouri river
loch;a long narrow inlet of the sea in scotland (especially when it is nearly landlocked) and in ireland
svalbard;a norwegian archipelago in the arctic ocean
ocean;a large body of water constituting a principal part of the hydrosphere
lake michigan;the 3rd largest of the great lakes. the largest fresh-water lake entirely within the united states borders
outer hebrides;a 130-mile long archipelago northwest of scotland
taiwan;a government on the island of taiwan established in 1949 by chiang kaishek after the conquest of mainland china by communists led by mao zedong
yellowstone river;a tributary of the missouri river
arabia;a peninsula between the red sea and the persian gulf. strategically important for its oil resources
anatolia;a peninsula in southwestern asia that forms the asian part of turkey
kansas;a river in northeastern kansas. flows eastward to become a tributary of the missouri river
danube river;the 2nd longest european river. flows into the black sea
kamchatka peninsula;a peninsula in eastern siberia. between bering sea and sea of okhotsk
jordan river;a river in palestine that empties into the dead sea. john the baptist baptized jesus in the jordan
inlet;a small arm off of a larger body of water (often between rocky headlands)
kaw river;a river in northeastern kansas. flows eastward to become a tributary of the missouri river
watercourse;natural or artificial channel through which water flows
caspian sea;a large saltwater lake between iran and russia fed by the volga river. the largest inland body of water in the world
isle of man;one of the british isles in the irish sea
melanesia;the islands in the southwestern part of oceania
hellespont;the strait between the aegean and the sea of marmara that separates european from asian turkey
orkney islands;an archipelago of about 70 islands in the north atlantic and north sea off the northeastern coast of scotland
north sea;an arm of the north atlantic between the british isles and scandinavia. oil was discovered under the north sea in 1970
colorado;a river in texas. flows southeast into the gulf of mexico
micronesia;the islands in the northwestern part of oceania
bering strait;a strait connecting the bering sea to the arctic ocean
island;a land mass (smaller than a continent) that is surrounded by water
st. francis;a tributary of the mississippi river
bermuda;a group of islands in the atlantic off the carolina coast. british colony. a popular resort
yangtze kiang;the longest river of asia. flows eastward from tibet into the east china sea near shanghai
arctic ocean;ice covered waters surrounding the north pole. mostly covered with solid ice or with ice floes and icebergs
tombigbee river;a tributary of the mobile river
bahrein island;an island in the persian gulf
tierra del fuego;an archipelago off s south america. separated from the continent by the strait of magellan. islands are administered by chile and by argentina
milk;a river that rises in the rockies in northwestern montana and flows eastward to become a tributary of the missouri river
yenisei;a russian river. flows northward into the arctic ocean
sea of marmara;an inland sea in northwestern turkey. linked to the black sea by the bosporus and linked to the aegean by the dardanelles
greater sunda islands;a chain of islands including borneo and celebes and java and sumatra
gulf of lepanto;inlet of the ionian sea between central greece and the peloponnesus
swimming hole;a small body of water (usually in a creek) that is deep enough to use for swimming
indus;an asian river. flows into the arabian sea
sabine;a north american river. flows into the gulf of mexico
sound;a large ocean inlet or deep bay. 'the main body of the sound ran parallel to the coast'
cataract;a steep descent of the water of a river
oxbow lake;a crescent-shaped lake (often temporary) that is formed when a meander of a river is cut off from the main channel
papua;a pacific island north of australia. the 2nd largest island in the world. governed by australia and indonesia
narragansett bay;a deep inlet of the atlantic ocean in rhode island
laurasia;a hypothetical continent that (according to plate tectonic theory) broke up later into north america and europe and asia
tubuai islands;a chain of small islands in french polynesia
tidewater stream;a stream in which the effects of the tide extend far upstream
lough;scottish and irish words for lake
cape verde islands;a group of islands in the atlantic off of the coast of senegal
long island;an island in southeastern new york. brooklyn and queens are on its western end
aruba;a popular island resort in the netherlands antilles
guadalcanal;a mountainous island. the largest of the solomon islands in the independent state that is a member of the british commonwealth
ruhr river;a tributary of the rhine
wallow;a puddle where animals go to wallow
san francisco bay;a bay of the pacific in western california
kauai;an island of hawaii northwest of oahu
apalachicola;a river in northwestern florida
canadian river;a river rising in northeastern new mexico and flowing eastward across the texas panhandle to become a tributary of the arkansas river in oklahoma
fijis;a group of more than 800 islands in the southwestern pacific. larger islands (viti levu and vanua levu) are of volcanic origin surrounded by coral reefs. smaller islands are coral
lake chad;a lake in north central africa. fed by the shari river
dominica;a volcanic island in the windward islands
visayan islands;group of islands in the central philippines
savannah river;a river in south carolina that flows southeast to the atlantic
british isles;great britain and ireland and adjacent islands in the north atlantic
ditch;any small natural waterway
dardanelles;the strait between the aegean and the sea of marmara that separates european from asian turkey
watercourse;a natural body of running water flowing on or under the earth
arkansas;a river that rises in the rocky mountains in colorado and flows southeast through kansas and oklahoma and through arkansas to become a tributary of the mississippi river
ligurian sea;an arm of the mediterranean between northwest italy and corsica
yucatan;a peninsula in central america extending into the gulf of mexico between the bay of campeche and the caribbean sea
marmora;an inland sea in northwestern turkey. linked to the black sea by the bosporus and linked to the aegean by the dardanelles
caribees;a group of islands in the southeastern west indies
ebro river;a spanish river. flows into the mediterranean
yellow sea;part of the pacific off the east coast of asia
river adige;a river in northern italy that flows southeast into the adriatic sea. 'verona is on the adige'
philippines;an archipelago in the southwestern pacific including some 7000 islands
south sea islands;any islands in the southern or southwestern of central parts of the pacific ocean
nationalist china;a government on the island of taiwan established in 1949 by chiang kaishek after the conquest of mainland china by communists led by mao zedong
river aire;a river in northern england that flows southeast through west yorkshire
canadian falls;a part of niagara falls in ontario
tevere;a river of central italy. flows through rome to the tyrrhenian sea
hills;hilly land. 'they loved to roam the hills of west virginia'. 'the black hills'
oxbow;the land inside an oxbow bend in a river
prudhoe bay;a bay on the northern coast of alaska where oil was discovered in 1968
san diego bay;a bay of the pacific in southern california
laguna;a body of water cut off from a larger body by a reef of sand or coral
antarctica;an extremely cold continent at the south pole almost entirely below the antarctic circle. covered by an ice cap up to 13,000 feet deep
tuvalu;a group of coral islands in micronesia southwest of hawaii
korea strait;a strait between korea and japan. connects the east china sea and the sea of japan
loire;a french river. flows into the north atlantic
gulf of mexico;an arm of the atlantic south of the united states and east of mexico
artificial lake;a lake used to store water for community use
niagara falls;waterfall in canada is the horseshoe falls. in the united states it is the american falls
tideway;a channel in which a tidal current runs
river acheron;(greek mythology) a river in hades across which the souls of the dead were carried by charon
forest;land that is covered with trees and shrubs
golfo de mexico;an arm of the atlantic south of the united states and east of mexico
schwarzwald;a hilly forest region in southwestern germany
fishpond;a freshwater pond with fish
maria;"a dark region of considerable extent on the surface of the moon"
saint lucia;a volcanic island in the windward isles south of martinique
ganges;an asia river. rises in the himalayas and flows east into the bay of bengal. a sacred river of hindu india
streamlet;a small stream
bisayas;group of islands in the central philippines
guaira;a great waterfall on the brazil-paraguay border
delaware bay;an inlet of the north atlantic. fed by the delaware river
lesvos;an island of eastern greece in the aegean sea. in antiquity it was famous for its lyric poetry
bighorn river;a river that flows from central wyoming to the yellowstone river in southern montana
thames;the longest river in england. flows eastward through london to the north sea
seven seas;an informal expression for all of the oceans of the world. 'the old salt had sailed the seven seas'
america;north and south america
austral islands;a chain of small islands in french polynesia
molokai;an island of central hawaii (between maui and oahu)
urubupunga;a waterfall in the parana river in brazil
briny;any very large body of (salt) water
aleutian islands;an archipelago in the north pacific extending southwestern from alaska
luzon;the main island of the philippines
ohio;a river that is formed in western pennsylvania and flows westward to become a tributary of the mississippi river
tasmania;an island off the southeastern coast of australia
pool;a small body of standing water (rainwater) or other liquid. 'there were puddles of muddy water in the road after the rain'. 'the body lay in a pool of blood'
delaware river;a river that rises in the catskills in southeastern new york and flows southward along the border of pennsylvania with new york and new jersey to northern delaware where it empties into delaware bay
james;a river that rises in north dakota and flows southward across south dakota to the missouri
gulf;an arm of a sea or ocean partly enclosed by land. larger than a bay
st. johns;a north american river. flows into the bay of fundy
galapagos;a group of islands in the pacific off south america. owned by ecuador. known for unusual animal life
lake;a body of (usually fresh) water surrounded by land
haiti;an island in the west indies
canal;(astronomy) an indistinct surface feature of mars once thought to be a system of channels. they are now believed to be an optical illusion
pleasant island;an island in micronesia west of the gilbert islands
field;extensive tract of level open land. 'they emerged from the woods onto a vast open plain'. 'he longed for the fields of his youth'
rill;a small channel (as one formed by soil erosion)
lagune;a body of water cut off from a larger body by a reef of sand or coral
shikoku;the smallest of the four main islands of japan. separated from honshu by the inland sea. forested and mountainous
scandinavian peninsula;the peninsula in northern europe occupied by norway and sweden
baltic;a sea in northern europe. stronghold of the russian navy
beaufort sea;part of the arctic ocean northeast of alaska
lower california;a mountainous peninsula on northwest mexico
tigris;an asian river. a tributary of the euphrates river
steppe;extensive plain without trees (associated with eastern russia and siberia)
gila river;a river that rises in western new mexico and flows westward through southern arizona to become a tributary of the colorado river
sulawesi;a mountainous island in eastern indonesia
viti levu;a volcanic island in the fijis
loire river;a french river. flows into the north atlantic
pee dee;a north american river. flows to the atlantic
lake superior;the largest freshwater lake in the world. the deepest of the great lakes
tagus river;a european river. flows into the north atlantic
guaira falls;a great waterfall on the brazil-paraguay border
pangaea;(plate tectonic theory) a hypothetical continent including all the landmass of the earth prior to the triassic period when it split into laurasia and gondwanaland
chosen;the name for korea as a japanese province (1910-1945)
vanua levu;a volcanic island in the fijis
strait;a narrow channel of the sea joining two larger bodies of water
mauritius;an island in the indian ocean
australasia;australia, new zealand, and neighboring islands in the s pacific
tidewater;low-lying coastal land drained by tidal streams
cimarron river;a river that rises in northeastern new mexico and flows eastward into oklahoma where it becomes a tributary of the arkansas river
bight;a bay formed by a bend (a bight) in the shoreline
mobile river;a river in southwestern alabama. flows into mobile bay
gila;a river that rises in western new mexico and flows westward through southern arizona to become a tributary of the colorado river
faeroes;a group of 21 volcanic islands in the north atlantic between iceland and the shetland islands
oder;a european river. flows into the baltic sea
iles marquises;a group of volcanic islands in the south central pacific. part of french polynesia
bismarck sea;an arm of the south pacific southwest of the bismarck archipelago
mississippi;a major north american river and the chief river of the united states. rises in northern minnesota and flows southward into the gulf of mexico
green;a river that rises in western wyoming and flows southward through utah to become a tributary of the colorado river
affluent;a branch that flows into the main stream
tugela falls;a major waterfall in southern africa. has more than one leap
land;"the solid part of the earth's surface. 'the plane turned away from the sea and moved back over land'. 'the earth shook for several minutes'. 'he dropped the logs on the ground'"
isthmus;a relatively narrow strip of land (with water on both sides) connecting two larger land areas
austronesia;islands of central and s pacific (indonesia and melanesia and micronesia and polynesia)
archipelago;a group of many islands in a large body of water
hibernia;an island comprising the republic of ireland and northern ireland
tahiti;an island in the south pacific. the most important island in french polynesia. made famous by robert louis stevenson and paul gauguin
gulf of corinth;inlet of the ionian sea between central greece and the peloponnesus
greenland sea;part of the arctic ocean north of iceland
white;a tributary of the mississippi river
gulf of suez;a northwestern arm of the red sea linked to the mediterranean by the suez canal
timberland;land that is covered with trees and shrubs
sea of azof;a bay of the black sea
yukon river;a north american river. flows into the bering sea
yenisey river;a russian river. flows northward into the arctic ocean
asia minor;a peninsula in southwestern asia that forms the asian part of turkey
bahrain island;an island in the persian gulf
dead sea;a saltwater lake on the border between israel and jordan. its surface in 1292 feet below sea level
yucatan peninsula;a peninsula in central america extending into the gulf of mexico between the bay of campeche and the caribbean sea
sumatra;a mountainous island in western indonesia
neosho;a river that rises in eastern kansas and flows eastward into oklahoma to become a tributary of the arkansas river
kukenaam falls;a famous waterfall in venezuela
river tyne;a river in northern england that flows east to the north sea
new britain;the largest island in the bismarck archipelago. part of papua new guinea
gulf of bothnia;a northern arm of the baltic sea. between sweden and finland
st. johns river;a north american river. flows into the bay of fundy
adige;a river in northern italy that flows southeast into the adriatic sea. 'verona is on the adige'
pecos river;a tributary of the rio grande
oceanica;a large group of islands in the south pacific including melanesia and micronesia and polynesia (and sometimes australasia and the malay archipelago)
reservoir;a lake used to store water for community use
woodland;land that is covered with trees and shrubs
alabama river;a river in alabama that flows southwestward to become a tributary of the mobile river
man;one of the british isles in the irish sea
yalu river;river in eastern asia. rises in north korea and flows southwest to korea bay (forming part of the border between north korea and china)
corse;an island in the mediterranean. with adjacent islets it constitutes a region of france
cocytus;(greek mythology) a river in hades that was said to be a tributary of the acheron
po;a european river. flows into the adriatic sea
iles comores;three main islands and numerous islets in the indian ocean between mozambique and madagascar
pangea;(plate tectonic theory) a hypothetical continent including all the landmass of the earth prior to the triassic period when it split into laurasia and gondwanaland
gulf of oman;an arm of the arabian sea connecting it with the persian gulf
zanzibar;an island in the indian ocean off the east coast of africa. part of the united republic of tanzania
tree farm;a forest (or part of a forest) where trees are grown for commercial use
don river;a european river in southwestern russia. flows into the sea of azov
japan;a string of islands east of asia
victoria nyanza;the largest lake in africa and the 2nd largest fresh water lake in the world. a headwaters reservoir for the nile river
angel falls;the highest waterfall. has more than one leap. flow varies seasonally
gulf of guinea;a gulf off the southwest coast of africa
philippine islands;an archipelago in the southwestern pacific including some 7000 islands
st. lucia;a volcanic island in the windward isles south of martinique
tundra;a vast treeless plain in the arctic regions between the ice cap and the tree line
main;any very large body of (salt) water
borneo;3rd largest island in the world. in the western pacific north of java. largely covered by dense jungle and rain forest. part of the malay archipelago
oceanic abyss;an especially deep part of a sea or ocean
wabash river;a tributary of the ohio river
lake huron;the 2nd largest of the great lakes
ionian sea;an arm of the mediterranean sea between western greece and southern italy
gondwanaland;a hypothetical continent that (according to plate tectonic theory) broke up later into india and australia and africa and south america and antarctica
nantucket;an island resort off cape cod. formerly a center of the whaling industry
ground;"the solid part of the earth's surface. 'the plane turned away from the sea and moved back over land'. 'the earth shook for several minutes'. 'he dropped the logs on the ground'"
baja california;a mountainous peninsula on northwest mexico
pacific ocean;the largest ocean in the world
narrow;a narrow strait connecting two bodies of water
victoria;a waterfall in the zambezi river on the zimbabwe-zambia border. diminishes seasonally
wabash;a tributary of the ohio river
jungle;an impenetrable equatorial forest
biscayne bay;a narrow bay formed by an inlet from the atlantic ocean in southeastern florida
riparian forest;woodlands along the banks of stream or river
eurasia;the land mass formed by the continents of europe and asia
jamaica;an island in the west indies south of cuba and west of haiti
little horn;a river that flows from northern wyoming into the bighorn river in southern montana. site of custer's last stand
aegean island;an island in the aegean sea
great britain;an island comprising england and scotland and wales
lough;a long narrow inlet of the sea in scotland (especially when it is nearly landlocked) and in ireland
st. maarten;an island in the western leeward_islands. administered jointly by france and the netherlands
black forest;a hilly forest region in southwestern germany
adriatic sea;an arm of the mediterranean between yugoslavia and albania on the east and italy on the west
offing;the part of the sea that can be seen from the shore. 'there was a ship in the offing'
subcontinent;a large and distinctive landmass (as india or greenland) that is a distinct part of some continent
sjaelland;the largest island of denmark and the site of copenhagen
yenisey;a russian river. flows northward into the arctic ocean
rill;a small stream
yukon;a north american river. flows into the bering sea
tidal stream;a stream in which the effects of the tide extend far upstream
marquesas islands;a group of volcanic islands in the south central pacific. part of french polynesia
nusa tenggara;a chain of islands forming a province of indonesia east of java. includes bali and timor
elbe river;a river in central europe that arises in northwestern czechoslovakia and flows northward through germany to empty into the north sea
wake island;an island in the western pacific between guam and hawaii
james river;a river that rises in north dakota and flows southward across south dakota to the missouri
kansas river;a river in northeastern kansas. flows eastward to become a tributary of the missouri river
ellis island;an island in new york harbor that was formerly the principal immigration station for the united states. 'some twelve millions immigrants passed through ellis island'
rhone river;a major french river. flows into the mediterranean near marseilles. 'the rhone valley is famous for its vineyards'
faroes;a group of 21 volcanic islands in the north atlantic between iceland and the shetland islands
run;a small stream
little bighorn river;a river that flows from northern wyoming into the bighorn river in southern montana. site of custer's last stand
river cocytus;(greek mythology) a river in hades that was said to be a tributary of the acheron
long island sound;a sound between long island and connecticut
amazon river;a major south american river. flows into the south atlantic. the world's 2nd longest river (4000 miles)
capri;an island (part of campania) in the bay of naples in s italy. a tourist attraction noted for beautiful scenery
sardegna;an island in the mediterranean west of italy
guadeloupe;an island territory of france located in the eastern west indies. tourism is the major industry
scandinavia;the peninsula in northern europe occupied by norway and sweden
lofoten;a string of islands off the northwestern coast of norway in the norwegian sea
mobile;a river in southwestern alabama. flows into mobile bay
greenwood;woodlands in full leaf. 'the greenwood was robin hood's home'
south china sea;a tropical arm of the pacific ocean near southeastern asia subject to frequent typhoons
kahoolawe island;an island of south-central hawaii
niger;an african river. flows into the south atlantic
spitsbergen;an island in the svalbard east of northern greenland
tropical rain forest;a tropical forest with heavy annual rainfall
black sea;a sea between europe and asia. a popular resort area of eastern europeans
strait of magellan;the strait separating south america from tierra del fuego and other islands south of the continent. discovered by ferdinand magellan in 1520. an important route around south american before the panama canal was built
yangtze river;the longest river of asia. flows eastward from tibet into the east china sea near shanghai
pas de calais;the strait between the english channel and the north sea. shortest distance between england and the european continent
red sea;an arm of the indian ocean
irtysh river;an asian river. tributary of the ob river
pee dee river;a north american river. flows to the atlantic
red;a tributary of the mississippi river
korean strait;a strait between korea and japan. connects the east china sea and the sea of japan
emerald isle;an island comprising the republic of ireland and northern ireland
tombigbee;a tributary of the mobile river
rhine river;a major european river carrying more traffic than any other river in the world. flows into the north sea
lena river;a russian river. flows northward into the arctic ocean
red river;a tributary of the mississippi river
kahoolawe;an island of south-central hawaii
victoria falls;a large waterfall on the argentine-brazil border
yosemite;a series of waterfalls in yosemite national park in california. is reduced to a trickle for part of each year
euphrates river;a river in southwestern asia. flows into the persian gulf. was important in the development of several great civilizations in ancient mesopotamia
africa;the second largest continent. located south of europe and bordered to the west by the south atlantic and to the east by the india ocean
japanese archipelago;a string of islands east of asia
amazon;a major south american river. flows into the south atlantic. the world's 2nd longest river (4000 miles)
atlantic;the 2nd largest ocean. separates north and south america on the west from europe and africa on the east
hokkaido;the second larges of the four main islands of japan. north of honshu
rhone;a major french river. flows into the mediterranean near marseilles. 'the rhone valley is famous for its vineyards'
ellice islands;a group of coral islands in micronesia southwest of hawaii
bioko;an island in the gulf of guinea that is part of equatorial guinea
ness;a strip of land projecting into a body of water
hudson bay;an inland sea in northern canada
po river;a european river. flows into the adriatic sea
green river;a river that rises in western wyoming and flows southward through utah to become a tributary of the colorado river
norwegian sea;the part of the atlantic that lies off the norwegian coast north of the north sea
mackenzie river;a canadian river. flows into the beaufort sea
tarn;a mountain lake (especially one formed by glaciers)
brazos river;a north american river. flows into the gulf of mexico
cape of good hope;a point of land in southwestern south africa (south of cape town)
mare clausum;(closed sea) a navigable body of water under the jurisdiction of a single nation
colorado;a river in southwestern united states. rises in the rocky mountains of northern colorado and flows southwest through utah into arizona (where it flows through the grand canyon) and then southward forming the border between california and arizona and finally into mexico where it empties into the gulf of california. an important source of water in the southwestern united states
maui island;the second largest of the hawaiian islands
white river;a tributary of the mississippi river
little missouri river;a river that rises in northeastern wyoming and flows through montana and south dakota to join the missouri river in north dakota
volga river;a russian river. the longest river in europe. flows into the caspian sea
the americas;north and south america
marshall islands;a group of coral islands in eastern micronesia
columbia river;a north american river. rises in southwestern canada and flows southward across washington to form the border between washington and oregon before emptying into the pacific. known for its salmon runs in the spring
high sea;the open seas of the world outside the territorial waters of any nation
south platte;a tributary of the platte river
continent;one of the large landmasses of the earth. 'there are seven continents'. 'pioneers had to cross the continent on foot'
bay;an indentation of a shoreline larger than a cove but smaller than an gulf
st. martin;an island in the western leeward_islands. administered jointly by france and the netherlands
lesser antilles;a group of islands in the southeastern west indies
amur river;an asian river between china and russia. flows into the sea of okhotsk
nile river;world's longest river (4187 miles). flows northern through africa into the mediterranean. the nile river valley in egypt was the site of the world's first great civilization
drink;(informal) any large deep body of water. 'he jumped into the drink and had to be rescued'
sinai;a peninsula in northeastern egypt. at north end of red sea
oceania;a large group of islands in the south pacific including melanesia and micronesia and polynesia (and sometimes australasia and the malay archipelago)
montserrat;a volcanic island in the caribbean. in the west indies
samoa;a group of volcanic islands in the s pacific midway between hawaii and australia. its climate and scenery and polynesian culture make it a popular tourist stop
territorial water;the water over which a nation exercises sovereign jurisdiction
waterfall;a steep descent of the water of a river
colorado river;a river in texas. flows southeast into the gulf of mexico
madagascar;an island in the indian ocean off the southeastern coast of africa. the 4th largest island in the world
zetland;an archipelago of about 100 islands in the north atlantic off the north coast of scotland
strait of ormuz;a strategically important strait linking the persian gulf and the gulf of oman
darling river;an australian river. tributary of the murray river
cayman islands;a british colony in the caribbean northwest of jamaica. an international banking center
ile st louis;island in paris on the seine
mud puddle;a puddle of mud. 'the children loved a mud puddle'
madeira;a brazilian river. tributary of the amazon river
west indies;the string of islands between north and south america. a popular resort area
iguassu falls;a large waterfall on the argentine-brazil border
cyclades;over 200 islands in the s aegean
yezo;the second larges of the four main islands of japan. north of honshu
kaballit nunaat;the largest island in the world. between the atlantic and arctic oceans. a danish territory
ouachita river;a river that rises in western arkansas and flows southeast into eastern louisiana to become a tributary of the red river
twin falls;a waterfall in the snake river in southern idaho
osage river;a river in missouri that is a tributary of the missouri river
low archipelago;a group of about 80 coral islands in french polynesia
persian gulf;a shallow arm of the arabian sea between iran and the arabian peninsula. the persian gulf oil fields are among the most productive in the world
north platte river;a river that rises in northern colorado and flows northward into wyoming and then eastward and southeastward through nebraska where it joins the south platte to form the platte river
sea;a division of an ocean or a large body of salt water partially enclosed by land
mid water;the water that is well below the surface but also well above the bottom. 'many marine fishes inhabit the mid-waters'
kanawha;a tributary of the ohio river
cape cod;a massachusetts cape extending into the atlantic. a popular resort area
shetland;an archipelago of about 100 islands in the north atlantic off the north coast of scotland
marianas;a chain of coral and volcanic islands in micronesia halfway between new guinea and japan
millpond;a pond formed by damming a stream to provide a head of water to turn a mill wheel
savannah;a river in south carolina that flows southeast to the atlantic
cape;a strip of land projecting into a body of water
sound;a relatively narrow body of water linking two larger bodies. 'the ship went aground in the channel'
the indies;the string of islands between north and south america. a popular resort area
japanese islands;a string of islands east of asia
galapagos islands;a group of islands in the pacific off south america. owned by ecuador. known for unusual animal life
euxine sea;a sea between europe and asia. a popular resort area of eastern europeans
east china sea;part of the pacific ocean near eastern asia
niobrara;a tributary of the missouri river
barbuda;an island in antigua and barbuda
trinidad;island in west indies
milk river;a river that rises in the rockies in northwestern montana and flows eastward to become a tributary of the missouri river
ischia;a volcanic island (part of campania) in the tyrrhenian sea at the north end of the bay of naples
kyushu;the southernmost of the four main islands of japan. contains coal fields
wisconsin river;a tributary of the mississippi river
niagara;waterfall in canada is the horseshoe falls. in the united states it is the american falls
nova scotia;a peninsula in eastern canada between the bay of fundy and the saint lawrence river
italian peninsula;a boot-shaped peninsula in s europe extending into the mediterranean sea
mekong river;an asian river. flows into the south china sea
east indies;a group of islands in the indian and pacific oceans between asia and australia
cuba;the largest island in the west indies
acheron;(greek mythology) a river in hades across which the souls of the dead were carried by charon
hebrides;a group of more than 500 islands off the western coast of scotland
apalachicola river;a river in northwestern florida
tagus;a european river. flows into the north atlantic
cove;a small arm off of a larger body of water (often between rocky headlands)
korean peninsula;an asian peninsula (off manchuria) separating the yellow sea and the sea of japan. the korean name is choson
susquehanna river;flows into chesapeake bay
strait of hormuz;a strategically important strait linking the persian gulf and the gulf of oman
caribbean island;an island in the caribbean sea
potomac river;a river in the east central united states. rises in the appalachian mountains of west virginia and flows eastward to the chesapeake bay
irtysh;an asian river. tributary of the ob river
st. christopher;the largest of the islands comprising saint christopher-nevis
bayou;a swampy arm or slow-moving outlet of a lake (term used mainly in mississippi and louisiana)
silva;the forest trees growing in a country or region
plain;extensive tract of level open land. 'they emerged from the woods onto a vast open plain'. 'he longed for the fields of his youth'
karelia;a region between finland and russia
coral sea;an arm of the south pacific northeast of australia
horseshoe falls;a part of niagara falls in ontario
seychelles;a group of 86 islands north of madagascar
waterway;a navigable body of water
redonda;an island in antigua and barbuda
balkan peninsula;a large peninsula in southeastern europe containing the balkan mountain range
susquehanna;flows into chesapeake bay
amur;an asian river between china and russia. flows into the sea of okhotsk
volga;a russian river. the longest river in europe. flows into the caspian sea
dry land;"the solid part of the earth's surface. 'the plane turned away from the sea and moved back over land'. 'the earth shook for several minutes'. 'he dropped the logs on the ground'"
hwang ho river;a major river of asia. flows into the yellow sea
alabama;a river in alabama that flows southwestward to become a tributary of the mobile river
little missouri;a river that rises in northeastern wyoming and flows through montana and south dakota to join the missouri river in north dakota
republican river;a tributary of the kansas river
earth;"the solid part of the earth's surface. 'the plane turned away from the sea and moved back over land'. 'the earth shook for several minutes'. 'he dropped the logs on the ground'"
niger river;an african river. flows into the south atlantic
strait of messina;the strait separating sicily from the tip of italy
mindoro;a mountainous island in the central philippines
la plata;an estuary between argentina and uruguay
brook;a natural stream of water smaller than a river (and often a tributary of a river). 'the creek dried up every summer'
antarctic ocean;the southern waters surrounding antarctica
sunda islands;a chain of islands in the western malay archipelago
hawaiian islands;a group of volcanic and coral islands in the central pacific
qatar;a peninsula extending into the persian gulf
peloponnesus;the southern peninsula of greece. dominated by sparta until the 4th century bc
egadi islands;a group of islands southwest of italy in the mediterranean
ohio river;a river that is formed in western pennsylvania and flows westward to become a tributary of the mississippi river
choson;an asian peninsula (off manchuria) separating the yellow sea and the sea of japan. the korean name is choson
aegean sea;an arm of the mediterranean between greece and turkey. a main trade route for the ancient civilizations of crete and greece and rome and persia
saint kitts;the largest of the islands comprising saint christopher-nevis
sea of japan;an arm of the pacific between china and japan
isthmus of panama;the isthmus that connects central america and south america
south sea;any sea south of the equator (but especially the south pacific)
jordan;a river in palestine that empties into the dead sea. john the baptist baptized jesus in the jordan
great salt lake;a shallow body of salt water in northwestern utah
strait of calais;the strait between the english channel and the north sea. shortest distance between england and the european continent
olympia;a plain in greece in the northwestern peloponnese. site of the original olympic games
english channel;an arm of the atlantic ocean that forms a channel between france and britain
fiord;a long narrow inlet of the sea between steep cliffs. common in norway
lake victoria;the largest lake in africa and the 2nd largest fresh water lake in the world. a headwaters reservoir for the nile river
feeder;a branch that flows into the main stream
meuse river;a european river. flows into the north sea
bering sea;part of the north pacific between alaska and siberia. connected to the arctic ocean by the bering strait
region;a large indefinite location on the surface of the earth. 'penguins inhabit the polar regions'
sabine river;a north american river. flows into the gulf of mexico
taimyr peninsula;a peninsula in northern siberia
indian ocean;the 3rd largest ocean
purus river;a brazilian river. tributary of the amazon river
singapore;an island s of the malay peninsula
little bighorn;a river that flows from northern wyoming into the bighorn river in southern montana. site of custer's last stand
kukenaam;a famous waterfall in venezuela
bay of biscay;an arm of the atlantic ocean in western europe. bordered by the west coast of france and the north coast of spain
salmon river;a tributary of the snake river
lethe;(greek mythology) a river in hades. the souls of the dead had to drink from it, which made them forget all they had done and suffered when they were alive
tennessee river;a river formed by the confluence of two other rivers near knoxville. it follows a u-shaped course to become a tributary of the ohio river in western kentucky
river arno;a river in central italy rising in the apennines and flowing through florence and pisa to the ligurian sea
cumberland river;a river that rises in southeastern kentucky and flows westward through northern tennessee to become a tributary of the ohio river in southwestern kentucky
molokai island;an island of central hawaii (between maui and oahu)
bahrein;an island in the persian gulf
chang;the longest river of asia. flows eastward from tibet into the east china sea near shanghai
aral sea;a lake east of the caspian sea lying between kazakhstan and uzbekistan
majorca;the largest of the balearic islands
cebu;one of the visayan islands of the central philippines. important for its fine harborone of the visayan islands of the central philippines. important for its fine harbor
mare liberum;(free sea) a navigable body of water to which all nations have equal access
floor;the ground on which people and animals move about. 'the fire spared the forest floor'
geographical point;a point on the surface of the earth
balearic islands;an archipelago in the western mediterranean off the eastern coast of spain
krakatau;a small volcanic island in indonesia between java and sumatra. its violent eruption in 1883 was the greatest in recorded history
tidal river;a stream in which the effects of the tide extend far upstream
puddle;a small body of standing water (rainwater) or other liquid. 'there were puddles of muddy water in the road after the rain'. 'the body lay in a pool of blood'
aire;a river in northern england that flows southeast through west yorkshire
bermudas;a group of islands in the atlantic off the carolina coast. british colony. a popular resort
lesser sunda islands;a chain of islands forming a province of indonesia east of java. includes bali and timor
hispaniola;an island in the west indies
australia;the smallest continent. between the south pacific and the indian ocean
bay of fundy;a bay of the north atlantic between new brunswick and nova scotia
water hole;a natural hole or hollow containing water
congo;a major african river (one of the world's longest). flows through zaire into the south atlantic
puerto rico;the smallest and easternmost of the greater antilles in the caribbean
republican;a tributary of the kansas river
water;"the part of the earth's surface covered with water. 'they invaded our territorial waters'"
fjord;a long narrow inlet of the sea between steep cliffs. common in norway
rivulet;a small stream
zodiac;"a belt-shaped region in the heavens on either side to the ecliptic. divided into 12 constellations or signs for astrological purposes"
puget sound;an inlet of the north pacific in northwestern washington state
tidewater river;a stream in which the effects of the tide extend far upstream
solomon islands;the northernmost islands are part of papua new guinea. the remainder form an independent state within the british commonwealth
ebro;a spanish river. flows into the mediterranean
south america;a continent in the western hemisphere connected to north america by the isthmus of panama
cyprus;an island in the mediterranean
yalu;river in eastern asia. rises in north korea and flows southwest to korea bay (forming part of the border between north korea and china)
cebuan;inhabitant of the island of cebu. a member of the visayan people of the philippines
saint vincent;an island in the center of the windward islands. the largest of the islands comprising saint vincent and the grenadines
lena;a russian river. flows northward into the arctic ocean
mare;"a dark region of considerable extent on the surface of the moon"
sandwich islands;a group of volcanic and coral islands in the central pacific
honshu;the largest of the four main islands of japan. between the sea of japan and the pacific ocean. regarded as the japanese mainland
oder river;a european river. flows into the baltic sea
missouri;the longest river in the united states. arises in montana and flows southeastward to become a tributary of the mississippi at saint louis
pecos;a tributary of the rio grande
bougainville;the largest of the solomon islands. a province of papua new guinea
anguilla;a british colony in the west indies
meuse;a european river. flows into the north sea
pool;a small lake. 'the pond was too small for sailing'
pacific;the largest ocean in the world
sylva;the forest trees growing in a country or region
saint maarten;an island in the western leeward_islands. administered jointly by france and the netherlands
saint eustatius;an island in the netherlands antilles
madeira river;a brazilian river. tributary of the amazon river
delaware;a river that rises in the catskills in southeastern new york and flows southward along the border of pennsylvania with new york and new jersey to northern delaware where it empties into delaware bay
firth;a narrow estuary (especially in scotland)
tyrrhenian sea;an arm of the mediterranean between italy and the islands of corsica and sardinia and sicily
neck;a narrow elongated projecting strip of land
saint martin;an island in the western leeward_islands. administered jointly by france and the netherlands
greenland;the largest island in the world. between the atlantic and arctic oceans. a danish territory
sardinia;an island in the mediterranean west of italy
landmass;a large continuous extent of land
faeroe islands;a group of 21 volcanic islands in the north atlantic between iceland and the shetland islands
parana river;a south american river. tributary of rio de la plata
hondo;the largest of the four main islands of japan. between the sea of japan and the pacific ocean. regarded as the japanese mainland
windward islands;a group of islands in the southeastern west indies
caribbean;an arm of the atlantic ocean between north and south america. the origin of the gulf stream
new york bay;a bay of the north atlantic. fed by the hudson river
recess;a small arm off of a larger body of water (often between rocky headlands)
shallow;a stretch of shallow water
brahmaputra;an asian river. flows into the bay of bengal
lanai;an island of central hawaii. a pineapple-growing area
flat;a level tract of land
styx;(greek mythology) a river in hades across which charon carried dead souls
curacao;a popular island resort in the netherlands antilles
paulo afonso falls;a major waterfall in northeastern brazil
principe;an island in the gulf of guinea that is part of sao tome e principe
mississippi river;a major north american river and the chief river of the united states. rises in northern minnesota and flows southward into the gulf of mexico
verrazano narrows;a narrow channel of water separating staten island and brooklyn
new caledonia;an island east of australia and north of new zealand
aleutians;an archipelago in the north pacific extending southwestern from alaska
mobile bay;a bay of the gulf of mexico. fed by the mobile river
ob;a russian river. flows northward to the arctic ocean
mekong;an asian river. flows into the south china sea
rapid;a part of a river where the current is very fast
bighorn;a river that flows from central wyoming to the yellowstone river in southern montana
surinam river;a river in suriname that flows northward to the atlantic
malay peninsula;a peninsula in southeastern asia occupied by parts of malaysia and thailand and burma
kanawha river;a tributary of the ohio river
gambier islands;a group of islands in the south central pacific. part of french polynesia
peloponnesian peninsula;the southern peninsula of greece. dominated by sparta until the 4th century bc
yangtze;the longest river of asia. flows eastward from tibet into the east china sea near shanghai
urubupunga falls;a waterfall in the parana river in brazil
irtish river;an asian river. tributary of the ob river
south platte river;a tributary of the platte river
iberia;a peninsula in southwestern europe
malta;a strategically located island south of sicily in the mediterranean sea
kauai island;an island of hawaii northwest of oahu
marmara;an inland sea in northwestern turkey. linked to the black sea by the bosporus and linked to the aegean by the dardanelles
ganges river;an asia river. rises in the himalayas and flows east into the bay of bengal. a sacred river of hindu india
islet;a small island
niagara river;a river flowing from lake erie into lake ontario. forms boundary between ontario and new york
euphrates;a river in southwestern asia. flows into the persian gulf. was important in the development of several great civilizations in ancient mesopotamia
limnos;a greek island in the northern aegean sea. famous for a reddish-brown clay that has medicinal properties
hudson river;a new york river. flows southward into new york bay. explored by henry hudson in early 1600s
newfoundland;an island in the north atlantic
kura;a river in western asia. rises in northeast turkey and flows to the caspian sea
new ireland;an island in the bismarck archipelago. part of papua new guinea
oahu island;an island of central hawaii (between molokai and kauai). the chief island of the state
missouri river;the longest river in the united states. arises in montana and flows southeastward to become a tributary of the mississippi at saint louis
foothills;hilly land on the lower slopes of mountains
ruhr;a tributary of the rhine
katar;a peninsula extending into the persian gulf
iceland;an island in the north atlantic
niobrara river;a tributary of the missouri river
zambezi;an african river. flows into the indian ocean
yenisei river;a russian river. flows northward into the arctic ocean
wonderland;a place or scene of great or strange beauty or wonder
krakatao;a small volcanic island in indonesia between java and sumatra. its violent eruption in 1883 was the greatest in recorded history
brahmaputra river;an asian river. flows into the bay of bengal
atlantis;(mythology) according to legend, an island in the atlantic ocean that was swallowed by an earthquake
niagara;a river flowing from lake erie into lake ontario. forms boundary between ontario and new york
sea of marmora;an inland sea in northwestern turkey. linked to the black sea by the bosporus and linked to the aegean by the dardanelles
zambezi river;an african river. flows into the indian ocean
nauru island;an island in micronesia west of the gilbert islands
wisconsin;a tributary of the mississippi river
orinoco;a south american river 1,500 miles long. flows into the south atlantic
charles;a river in eastern massachusetts that empties into boston harbor and that separates cambridge from boston
lanai island;an island of central hawaii. a pineapple-growing area
terra firma;"the solid part of the earth's surface. 'the plane turned away from the sea and moved back over land'. 'the earth shook for several minutes'. 'he dropped the logs on the ground'"
hebridean isles;a group of more than 500 islands off the western coast of scotland
isere;a river in southeastern france. a tributary of the rhone
horsepond;a pond for watering horses
thames river;the longest river in england. flows eastward through london to the north sea
sombrero;one of the islands of saint christopher-nevis
murray;an australian river. flows into the indian ocean
azores;islands in the atlantic ocean belonging to portugal. 'the azores are strategically located on transatlantic air and shipping routes'
orinoco river;a south american river 1,500 miles long. flows into the south atlantic
platte river;a river in nebraska that flows eastward to become a tributary of the missouri river
yellowstone;a tributary of the missouri river
cuquenan falls;a famous waterfall in venezuela
timber;land that is covered with trees and shrubs
ford;a shallow area in a stream that can be forded
estuary;the wide part of a river where it nears the sea. fresh and salt water mix
ceylon;an island in the indian ocean off the southeastern coast of india
cascade;a steep descent of the water of a river
lagoon;a body of water cut off from a larger body by a reef of sand or coral
mere;(british) a small pond of standing water
crossing;a shallow area in a stream that can be forded
taymyr peninsula;a peninsula in northern siberia
corsica;an island in the mediterranean. with adjacent islets it constitutes a region of france
parana;a south american river. tributary of rio de la plata
crocodile river;an african river. flows into the indian ocean
charles river;a river in eastern massachusetts that empties into boston harbor and that separates cambridge from boston
hawaii;the largest and southernmost of the hawaii islands. has several volcanic peaks
republic of china;a government on the island of taiwan established in 1949 by chiang kaishek after the conquest of mainland china by communists led by mao zedong
potomac;a river in the east central united states. rises in the appalachian mountains of west virginia and flows eastward to the chesapeake bay
channel;a relatively narrow body of water linking two larger bodies. 'the ship went aground in the channel'
ezo;the second larges of the four main islands of japan. north of honshu
murray river;an australian river. flows into the indian ocean
saone;a river in eastern france. rises in lorraine and flows south to become the chief tributary of the rhone
baffin island;the 5th largest island and the largest of the canadian arctic. between greenland and hudson bay
nile;world's longest river (4187 miles). flows northern through africa into the mediterranean. the nile river valley in egypt was the site of the world's first great civilization
shetland islands;an archipelago of about 100 islands in the north atlantic off the north coast of scotland
bahrain;an island in the persian gulf
netherlands antilles;a group of islands in the lesser antilles just north of venezuela that are administered by the netherlands
solid ground;"the solid part of the earth's surface. 'the plane turned away from the sea and moved back over land'. 'the earth shook for several minutes'. 'he dropped the logs on the ground'"
saipan;an island in the southern mariana islands that is the administrative center of the united states trust territory of the pacific islands
tributary;a branch that flows into the main stream
north platte;a river that rises in northern colorado and flows northward into wyoming and then eastward and southeastward through nebraska where it joins the south platte to form the platte river
angel;the highest waterfall. has more than one leap. flow varies seasonally
chesapeake bay;an inlet of the north atlantic. fed by susquehanna river
paumotu archipelago;a group of about 80 coral islands in french polynesia
tennessee;a river formed by the confluence of two other rivers near knoxville. it follows a u-shaped course to become a tributary of the ohio river in western kentucky
iguassu;a large waterfall on the argentine-brazil border
iguazu;a large waterfall on the argentine-brazil border
shoal;a stretch of shallow water
gulf of akaba;a northeastern arm of the red sea. between the sinai peninsula (egypt) and saudi arabia
st. vincent;an island in the center of the windward islands. the largest of the islands comprising saint vincent and the grenadines
vistula;a european river. flows into the baltic sea
iberian peninsula;a peninsula in southwestern europe
nihau;the most northwestern hawaiian island (beyond kauai)
rhein;a major european river carrying more traffic than any other river in the world. flows into the north sea
rain forest;a tropical forest with heavy annual rainfall
canary islands;a group of mountainous islands in the atlantic off the northwest coast of africa forming spanish provinces
lake erie;the 4th largest of the great lakes
western islands;a group of more than 500 islands off the western coast of scotland
caribbean sea;an arm of the atlantic ocean between north and south america. the origin of the gulf stream
gulf of california;a gulf west of mexico
