triangle;a three-sided polygon
basso relievo;a relief in which the figures project only slightly from the surrounding plane surface. no figures are undercut
trilateral;a three-sided polygon
spherical triangle;a spherical polygon formed by the arcs of 3 great circles
figure;"a combination of points and lines and planes that form a visible palpable shape"
quadrate;a square-shaped object
trapezium;(in us) a quadrilateral with no parallel sides
cinquefoil;an ornamental carving consisting of five arcs arranged in a circle
glyph;a symbolic figure carved or incised in relief
diaglyph;a sunken or depressed engraving or carving
mezzo relievo;a sculptural relief between low relief and high relief
octagon;an eight-sided polygon
rhombus;a parallelogram with four equal sides. an oblique-angled equilateral parallelogram
shape;"a perceptual structure. 'the composition presents problems for students of musical form'. 'a visual pattern must include not only objects but the spaces between them'"
flank;a subfigure consisting of a side of something
hexagon;a six-sided polygon
parallelogram;a quadrilateral whose opposite sides are both parallel and equal in length
rilievo;sculpture in which the figures are raised above a surrounding flat plane
fork;a part of a forked or branching shape. 'he broke off one of the branches'. 'they took the south fork'
hyperbola;an open curve formed by a plane that cuts the base of a right circular cone
solid figure;a 3-dimensional shape
hemisphere;half of a sphere
brachium;(biology) a branching or armlike part of an animal
piece;an object created by a sculptor. 'it was not known who created the piece'
box;a rectangular drawing. 'the flowchart contained many boxes'
basso relievo;a relief in which forms extend only slightly from the background
vermiculation;a decoration consisting of wormlike carvings
alto relievo;a relief in which forms extend out from the background to at least half their depth
tree;a figure that branches from a single root. 'genealogical tree'
alto rilievo;a sculptural relief in which more than half of each figure projects out from the surrounding plane surface
regular polygon;a polygon with all sides and all angles equal
mosaic;a pattern resembling a mosaic
woodcarving;a piece of art created by carving wood
heptagon;a seven-sided polygon
trapezoid;(in us) a quadrilateral with two parallel sides
low relief;a relief in which the figures project only slightly from the surrounding plane surface. no figures are undercut
nonagon;a nine-sided polygon
pillar;"anything tall and thin approximating the shape of a column or tower. 'the test tube held a column of white powder'. 'a tower of dust rose above the horizon'. 'a thin pillar of smoke betrayed their campsite'"
mobile;a sculpture suspended in midair whose delicately balanced parts can be set in motion by air currents
paraboloid;a surface having parabolic sections parallel to a single coordinate axis and elliptic sections perpendicular to that axis
two dimensional figure;a 2-dimensional shape
sculpture;a three-dimensional work of art
molding;a sculpture produced by molding
star;a plane figure with 5 or more points. often used as an emblem
pentagram;a star with 5 points. formed by 5 straight lines between the vertices of a pentagon and enclosing another pentagon
pattern;"a perceptual structure. 'the composition presents problems for students of musical form'. 'a visual pattern must include not only objects but the spaces between them'"
mould;a sculpture produced by molding
conic section;(geometry) a curve generated by the intersection of a plane and a circular cone
hemicycle;a plane figure with the shape of half a circle
bronze;a sculpture made of bronze
tree diagram;a figure that branches from a single root. 'genealogical tree'
rectangle;a parallelogram with four right angles
scalene triangle;a triangle with no two sides of equal length
hexagram;a regular polygon formed by completing two equilateral triangles from a regular hexagon
ellipse;a closed plane curve resulting from the intersection of a circular cone and a plane cutting completely through it. 'the sums of the distances from the foci to any point on an ellipse is constant'
high relief;a sculptural relief in which more than half of each figure projects out from the surrounding plane surface
high relief;a relief in which forms extend out from the background to at least half their depth
lithoglyptics;the art of engraving on precious stones
sector;a plane figure bounded by two radii and the included arc of a circle
moulding;a sculpture produced by molding
conic;(geometry) a curve generated by the intersection of a plane and a circular cone
spherical polygon;a figure on the surface of of sphere bounded by arcs of 3 or more great circles
bas relief;a relief in which the figures project only slightly from the surrounding plane surface. no figures are undercut
cuneus;any shape that is triangular in cross section
glyptic art;carvings or engravings (especially on precious stones)
dodecagon;a twelve-sided polygon
parabola;a plane curve formed by the intersection of a right circular cone and a plane parallel to an element of the curve
relievo;sculpture in which the figures are raised above a surrounding flat plane
scrimshaw;an article carved or engraved from whalebone, whale ivory, walrus tusk, etc., usually by american whalers
foursquare;(geometry) a plane rectangle with four equal sides and four right angles. a four-sided regular polygon. 'you can compute the area of a square if you know the length of its sides'
statue of liberty;a large monumental statue symbolizing liberty on liberty island in new york harbor
tower;"anything tall and thin approximating the shape of a column or tower. 'the test tube held a column of white powder'. 'a tower of dust rose above the horizon'. 'a thin pillar of smoke betrayed their campsite'"
oval;a closed plane curve resulting from the intersection of a circular cone and a plane cutting completely through it. 'the sums of the distances from the foci to any point on an ellipse is constant'
right triangle;a triangle with one right angle
stabile;a sculpture having fixed units constructed of metal and attached to a fixed support
clay sculpture;a sculpture produced by molding
statue;a sculpture representing a human or animal
gestalt;a configuration or pattern of elements so unified as a whole that it cannot be described merely as a sum of its parts
mezzo rilievo;a sculptural relief between low relief and high relief
circle;a plane curve generated by one point moving at a constant distance from a fixed point. 'he calculated the circumference of the circle'
obtuse triangle;a triangle that contains an obtuse interior angle
pentagon;a five-sided polygon
ellipsoid;a surface whose plane sections are all ellipses or circles. 'the earth is an ellipsoid'
asterism;(mineralogy) a six-rayed star-shaped figure seen in some crystal structures under reflected or transmitted light
form;"a perceptual structure. 'the composition presents problems for students of musical form'. 'a visual pattern must include not only objects but the spaces between them'"
plane figure;a 2-dimensional shape
bust;a sculpture of the head and shoulders of a person
circle of curvature;the circle that touches a curve (on the concave side) and whose radius is the radius of curvature
relief;shapes carved on a surface so as to stand out from the background
equiangular triangle;a three-sided regular polygon
reentering polygon;a polygon with one or more reentrant angles
basso rilievo;a relief in which the figures project only slightly from the surrounding plane surface. no figures are undercut
mold;a sculpture produced by molding
right angled triangle;a triangle with one right angle
equator;a circle dividing a sphere or other surface into two usually equal and symmetrical parts
marble;a sculpture carved from marble
wedge;any shape that is triangular in cross section
relievo;shapes carved on a surface so as to stand out from the background
acute triangle;a triangle whose interior angles are all acute
branch;a part of a forked or branching shape. 'he broke off one of the branches'. 'they took the south fork'
carving;an object created by carving (as wood or ivory or stone)
decagon;a polygon with 10 sides and 10 angles
three dimensional figure;a 3-dimensional shape
obtuse angled triangle;a triangle that contains an obtuse interior angle
acute angled triangle;a triangle whose interior angles are all acute
alto relievo;a sculptural relief in which more than half of each figure projects out from the surrounding plane surface
sphinx;one of a number of large stone statues with the body of a lion and the head of a man that were built by the ancient egyptians
leg;a part of a forked or branching shape. 'he broke off one of the branches'. 'they took the south fork'
osculating circle;the circle that touches a curve (on the concave side) and whose radius is the radius of curvature
circle;"something approximating the shape of a circle. 'the chairs were arranged in a circle'"
bas relief;a relief in which forms extend only slightly from the background
oblong;a plane figure that deviates from a square or circle due to elongation
epicycle;a circle that rolls around (inside or outside) another circle. generates an epicycloid or hypocycloid
cladogram;a tree diagram used to illustrate phylogenetic relationships
polygonal shape;a closed plane figure bounded by straight sides
equilateral triangle;a three-sided regular polygon
glyptics;the art of engraving on precious stones
subfigure;a figure that is a part of another figure
wedge shape;any shape that is triangular in cross section
rhomb;a parallelogram with four equal sides. an oblique-angled equilateral parallelogram
anaglyph;anything carved in low relief
isosceles triangle;a triangle with two equal sides
concave polygon;a polygon such that there is a straight line that cuts it in four or more points
relief;sculpture in which the figures are raised above a surrounding flat plane
heart;a plane figure with rounded sides curving inward at the top and intersecting at the bottom. conventionally used on playing cards and valentines. 'he drew a heart and called it a valentine'
facet;a smooth surface (as of a bone or cut gemstone)
oblique triangle;a triangle that contains no right angle
strand;a pattern forming a unity within a larger structural whole. 'he tried to pick up the strands of his former life'. 'i could hear several melodic strands simultaneously'
convex polygon;a polygon such that no side extended cuts any other side or vertex. it can be cut by a line in at most two points
column;"anything tall and thin approximating the shape of a column or tower. 'the test tube held a column of white powder'. 'a tower of dust rose above the horizon'. 'a thin pillar of smoke betrayed their campsite'"
polygon;a closed plane figure bounded by straight sides
square;(geometry) a plane rectangle with four equal sides and four right angles. a four-sided regular polygon. 'you can compute the area of a square if you know the length of its sides'
pentacle;a star with 5 points. formed by 5 straight lines between the vertices of a pentagon and enclosing another pentagon
rhomboid;a parallelogram with adjacent sides of unequal lengths. an oblique-angled parallelogram with only the opposite sides equal
structure;the complex composition of knowledge as elements and their combinations. 'his lectures have no structure'
glyptography;carvings or engravings (especially on precious stones)
tetragon;a four-sided polygon
semicircle;a plane figure with the shape of half a circle
embossment;sculpture in which the figures are raised above a surrounding flat plane
intaglio;a sunken or depressed engraving or carving
cameo;engraving or carving in relief
base;the bottom side of a geometric figure from which the altitude can be constructed. 'the base of the triangle'
fractal;a geometric pattern that is repeated at every scale and so cannot be represented by classical geometry
quadrilateral;a four-sided polygon
trigon;a three-sided polygon
reentrant polygon;a polygon with one or more reentrant angles
quadrangle;a four-sided polygon
half relief;a sculptural relief between low relief and high relief
modeling;a sculpture produced by molding
hypotenuse;the side of a right triangle opposite the right angle
low relief;a relief in which forms extend only slightly from the background
undecagon;an eleven-sided polygon
