euphuism;any artificially elegant style of language
luridness;the journalistic use of subject matter that appeals to vulgar tastes. 'the tabloids relied on sensationalism to maintain their circulation'
rhythm;the arrangement of spoken words alternating stressed and unstressed elements. 'the rhythm of frost's poetry'
undertone;a quiet or hushed tone of voice: 'spoke in undertones'
paper;a scholarly article describing the results of observations or stating hypotheses. 'he has written many scientific papers'
tone;the quality of a person's voice. 'he began in a conversational tone'. 'he spoke in a nervous tone of voice'
succinctness;terseness achieved by expressing a great deal in just a few words
catachresis;strained or paradoxical use of words either in error (as 'blatant' to mean 'flagrant') or deliberately (as in a mixed metaphor: 'blind mouths')
metalepsis;substituting metonymy of one figurative sense for another
trope;language used in a figurative or nonliteral sense
metaphor;a figure of speech in which an expression is used to refer to something that it does not literally denote in order to suggest a similarity
anacoluthia;an abrupt change within a sentence from one syntactic structure to another
irony;a trope that involves incongruity between what is expected and what occurs
address;the manner of speaking to another individual. 'he failed in his manner of address to the captain'
claptrap;pompous or pretentious talk or writing
poesy;literature in metrical form
hypozeugma;use of a series of subjects with a single predicate
britishism;an expression that is limited to english as spoken by englishmen (especially as contrasted with american english)
hysteron proteron;reversal of normal order of two words or sentences etc. (as in 'bred and born')
epanaphora;repetition of a word or phrase as the beginning of successive clauses
anacoluthon;an abrupt change within a sentence from one syntactic structure to another
repetitiveness;verboseness resulting from excessive repetitions
figure;language used in a figurative or nonliteral sense
sentence stress;the distribution of stresses within a sentence
emphasis;the relative prominence of a syllable (especially with regard to stress or pitch). 'he put the stress on the wrong syllable'
paralipsis;suggesting by deliberately concise treatment that much of significance is omitted
feature article;a special or prominent article in a newspaper or magazine. 'they ran a feature on retirement planning'
blah;pompous or pretentious talk or writing
paraleipsis;suggesting by deliberately concise treatment that much of significance is omitted
prose;ordinary writing as distinguished from verse
tragedy;drama in which the protagonist is overcome by some superior force or circumstance. excites terror or pity
prosody;the patterns of stress and intonation in a language
zeugma;use of a word to govern two or more words though appropriate to only one. 'mr. pickwick took his hat and his leave' is an example of zeugma'
poetry;literature in metrical form
vein;a distinctive style or manner. 'he continued in this vein for several minutes'
fluency;powerful and effective language
intonation pattern;intonations characteristic of questions and requests and statements
figure of speech;language used in a figurative or nonliteral sense
accent;the relative prominence of a syllable (especially with regard to stress or pitch). 'he put the stress on the wrong syllable'
anastrophe;the reversal of the normal order of words
honorific;an expression of respect. 'the japanese use many honorifics'
choice of words;the manner in which something is expressed in words: 'use concise military verbiage'- g.s.patton
inflection;the patterns of stress and intonation in a language
pitch contour;rise and fall of the voice pitch
onomatopoeia;using words that imitate the sound they denote
colloquialism;a colloquial expression. characteristic of spoken or written communication that seeks to imitate informal speech
nonfictional prose;prose writing that is not fictional
enallage;a substitution of part of speech or gender or number or tense etc. (e.g., editorial 'we' for 'i')
inversion;the reversal of the normal order of words
legalese;a style that uses the abstruse technical vocabulary of the law
verboseness;an expressive style that uses excessive words
ecphonesis;an exclamatory rhetorical device. 'o tempore! o mores'
verbosity;an expressive style that uses excessive words
speech;your characteristic style or manner of expressing yourself orally. 'his manner of speaking was quite abrupt'. 'her speech was barren of southernisms'. 'i detected a slight accent in his speech'
chiasmus;inversion in the second of two parallel phrases
expression;the style of expressing yourself. 'he suggested a better formulation'. 'his manner of expression showed how much he cared'
prolixness;boring verboseness
feature;a special or prominent article in a newspaper or magazine. 'they ran a feature on retirement planning'
paralepsis;suggesting by deliberately concise treatment that much of significance is omitted
stream of consciousness;a literary genre that reveals a characters thoughts and feeling by means of a long soliloquy
epiplexis;a rhetorical device in which the speaker reproaches the audience in order to incite or convince them
analysis;the use of closed-class words instead of inflections: e.g., 'the father of the bride' instead of 'the bride's father'
singsong;a regular and monotonous rising and falling intonation
situation comedy;a humorous drama based on situations that might arise in day-to-day life
laconism;terseness of expression
elocution;an expert manner of speaking involving control of voice and gesture
apophasis;mentioning something by saying it will not be mentioned
hypallage;reversal of the syntactic relation of two words (as in 'her beauty's face')
climax;arrangement of clauses in ascending order of forcefulness
prolixity;boring verboseness
formulation;the style of expressing yourself. 'he suggested a better formulation'. 'his manner of expression showed how much he cared'
caesura;a break or pause (usually for sense) in the middle of a verse line
journalese;the style in which newspapers are written
stress;the relative prominence of a syllable (especially with regard to stress or pitch). 'he put the stress on the wrong syllable'
mot juste;the appropriate word or expression
tonic accent;emphasis the results from pitch rather than loudness
wordiness;boring verboseness
idiom;a manner of speaking that is natural to native speakers of a language
euphuism;an elegant style of prose of the elizabethan period. characterized by balance and antithesis and alliteration and extended similes with and allusions to nature and mythology
intonation;rise and fall of the voice pitch
repetition;the repeated use of the same word or word pattern as a rhetorical device
litotes;understatement, esp. expressing an affirmative by negating its contrary
sharp tongue;a bitter or critical manner of speaking
oxymoron;conjoining contradictory terms (as in 'deafening silence')
speech rhythm;the arrangement of spoken words alternating stressed and unstressed elements. 'the rhythm of frost's poetry'
personal;a short newspaper article about a particular person or group
prose;matter_of_fact, commonplace, or dull expression
tragicomedy;a comedy with serious elements or overtones
slapstick;a boisterous comedy with chases and collisions and practical jokes
article;nonfictional prose forming an independent part of a publication
sesquipedality;using long words
boilerplate;a standard formulation of legal documents or news stories
catch;a break or check in the voice (usually a sign of strong emotion)
manner of speaking;your characteristic style or manner of expressing yourself orally. 'his manner of speaking was quite abrupt'. 'her speech was barren of southernisms'. 'i detected a slight accent in his speech'
simile;a figure of speech that expresses a resemblance between things of different kinds (usually formed with 'like' or 'as')
bathos;triteness or triviality of style
technobabble;technical jargon from computing and other high-tech subjects
newspaper article;an article reporting news
repetitiousness;verboseness resulting from excessive repetitions
magazine article;an article published in a magazine
ecobabble;using the technical language of ecology to make the user seem ecologically aware
psychobabble;using language loaded with psychological terminology
farce comedy;a comedy characterized by broad satire and improbable situations
pithiness;terseness achieved by expressing a great deal in just a few words
archaism;the use of an archaic expression
device;something in an artistic work designed to achieve a particular effect
tautology;useless repetition. 'to say that something is 'adequate enough' is a tautology'
sensationalism;the journalistic use of subject matter that appeals to vulgar tastes. 'the tabloids relied on sensationalism to maintain their circulation'
epanalepsis;repetition after intervening words
melodrama;an extravagant comedy in which action is more salient than characterization
epanorthosis;immediate rephrasing for intensification or justification. 'seems, madam! nay, it is'
writing style;a style of expressing yourself in writing
polyptoton;repetition of a word in a different case or inflection in the same sentence. 'my own heart's heart'
turgidity;pompously embellished language
americanism;an expression that is characteristic of english as spoken by americans
circumlocution;a style that involves indirect ways of expressing things
nonfiction;prose writing that is not fictional
word accent;the distribution of stresses within a polysyllabic word
expressive style;"a way of expressing something (in language or art or music etc.) that is characteristic of a particular person or group of people or period. 'all the reporters were expected to adopt the style of the newspaper'"
hypozeuxis;use of a series of parallel clauses (as in 'i came, i saw, i conquered')
flourish;a display of ornamental language
redundancy;repetition of messages to reduce the probability of errors in transmission
prosopopoeia;representing an abstract quality or idea as a person or creature
anglicism;an expression that is limited to english as spoken by englishmen (especially as contrasted with american english)
symploce;repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning and another at the end of successive clauses, i.e., simultaneous use of anaphora and epistrophe
bombast;pompous or pretentious talk or writing
style;"a way of expressing something (in language or art or music etc.) that is characteristic of a particular person or group of people or period. 'all the reporters were expected to adopt the style of the newspaper'"
terseness;a neatly short and concise expressive style
aposiopesis;breaking off in the middle of a sentence (as by writers of realistic conversations)
kenning;conventional metaphoric name for something, used esp. in old english and old norse poetry
hyperbole;extravagant exaggeration
news story;an article reporting news
epiphora;repetition of the ends of two or more successive sentences, verses, etc.
verbiage;the manner in which something is expressed in words: 'use concise military verbiage'- g.s.patton
fustian;pompous or pretentious talk or writing
genre;a style of expressing yourself in writing
preterition;suggesting by deliberately concise treatment that much of significance is omitted
gobbledygook;incomprehensible or pompous jargon of specialists
turgidness;pompously embellished language
news article;an article reporting news
jargon;specialized technical terminology characteristic of a particular subject
synesthetic metaphor;a metaphor that exploits a similarity between experiences in different sense modalities
laconicism;terseness of expression
anadiplosis;repetition of the final words of a sentence or line at the beginning of the next
officialese;the style of writing characteristic of some government officials: formal and obscure
low comedy;a comedy characterized by slapstick and burlesque
ploce;repetition to gain special emphasis or extend meaning
archaicism;the use of an archaic expression
monotone;an unchanging intonation
apostrophe;address to an absent or imaginary person
conciseness;terseness achieved by expressing a great deal in just a few words
rant;pompous or pretentious talk or writing
hyperbaton;reversal of normal word order (as in 'cheese i love')
drama;the literary genre of works intended for the theater
crispness;a style of expression that is direct and to the point. 'the crispness of his reply'
briticism;an expression that is limited to english as spoken by englishmen (especially as contrasted with american english)
paregmenon;juxtaposing words having a common derivation (as in 'sense and sensibility')
personification;representing an abstract quality or idea as a person or creature
rhetoric;using language effectively to please or persuade
brevity;the use of brief expressions
form;an arrangement of the elements in a composition or discourse. 'the essay was in the form of a dialogue'. 'he first skethes the plot in outline form'
separate;a separately printed article that originally appeared in a larger publication
eurobabble;the jargon of european community documents and regulations
rhetorical device;a use of language that creates a literary effect (but often without regard for literal significance)
wording;the manner in which something is expressed in words: 'use concise military verbiage'- g.s.patton
editorial;an article giving opinions or perspectives
magniloquence;high_flown style. excessive use of verbal ornamentation
newspaper column;an article giving opinions or perspectives
prose poem;prose that resembles poetry
poetry;any communication resembling poetry in beauty or the evocation of feeling
shibboleth;a manner of speaking that is distinctive of a particular group of people
delivery;your characteristic style or manner of expressing yourself orally. 'his manner of speaking was quite abrupt'. 'her speech was barren of southernisms'. 'i detected a slight accent in his speech'
word stress;the distribution of stresses within a polysyllabic word
polyphonic prose;a rhythmical prose employing the poetic devices of alliteration and assonance
reprint;a separately printed article that originally appeared in a larger publication
closet drama;drama more suitable for reading that for performing
periphrasis;a style that involves indirect ways of expressing things
rhetoric;high_flown style. excessive use of verbal ornamentation
seriocomedy;a comedy with serious elements or overtones
diction;the manner in which something is expressed in words: 'use concise military verbiage'- g.s.patton
verse;literature in metrical form
column;an article giving opinions or perspectives
verbalization;expressing something in words
metonymy;substituting the name of an attribute or feature for the name of the thing itself (as in 'they counted heads')
self expression;the expression of one's individuality (usually through creative activities)
tragicomedy;a dramatic composition involving elements of both tragedy and comedy usually with the tragic predominating
hendiadys;use of two conjoined nouns instead of a noun and modifier
sidebar;a short news story presenting sidelights on a major story
phrasing;the manner in which something is expressed in words: 'use concise military verbiage'- g.s.patton
grandiloquence;high_flown style. excessive use of verbal ornamentation
pitch accent;emphasis the results from pitch rather than loudness
note;a tone of voice that shows what the speaker is feeling. 'there was a note of uncertainty in his voice'
epistrophe;repetition of the ends of two or more successive sentences, verses, etc.
epos;a body of poetry that conveys the traditions of a society by treating some epic theme
epanodos;repetition or recapitulation in reverse order
tongue;a manner of speaking. 'he spoke with a thick tongue'. 'she has a glib tongue'
anaphora;repetition of a word or phrase as the beginning of successive clauses
synecdoche;substituting a more inclusive term for a less inclusive one or vice versa
exclamation;an exclamatory rhetorical device. 'o tempore! o mores'
frozen metaphor;a metaphor that has occurred so often that it has become a new meaning of the expression (e.g., 'he is a snake' may once have been a metaphor but after years of use it has died and become a new sense of the word 'snake')
image;language used in a figurative or nonliteral sense
droning;an unchanging intonation
headlinese;using the abbreviated style of headline writers
grandiosity;high_flown style. excessive use of verbal ornamentation
antithesis;the juxtaposition of contrasting words or ideas to give a feeling of balance
lead story;a news story of major importance
lead;a news story of major importance
dead metaphor;a metaphor that has occurred so often that it has become a new meaning of the expression (e.g., 'he is a snake' may once have been a metaphor but after years of use it has died and become a new sense of the word 'snake')
phraseology;the manner in which something is expressed in words: 'use concise military verbiage'- g.s.patton
verbiage;overabundance of words
wellerism;a comparison comprising a well-known quotation followed by a facetious sequel
emphasis;special and significant stress by means of position or repetition e.g.
prolepsis;anticipating and answering objections in advance
offprint;a separately printed article that originally appeared in a larger publication
dramatic irony;(theater) irony that occurs when the meaning of the situation is understood by the audience but not by the characters in the play
comedy;light and humorous drama with a happy ending
drone;an unchanging intonation
pleonasm;using more words than necessary. 'a tiny little child'
pathos;a style that has the power to evoke feelings
long windedness;boring verboseness
parlance;a manner of speaking that is natural to native speakers of a language
anaphora;using a pronoun or other pro-word instead of repeating a word
travesty;a comedy characterized by broad satire and improbable situations
polysyndeton;using several conjunctions in close succession, especially where some might be omitted (as in 'he ran and jumped and laughed for joy')
literary genre;a style of expressing yourself in writing
conversion;interchange of subject and predicate of a proposition
agony column;a newspaper column devoted to personal problems
antiphrasis;the use of a word in a sense opposite to its normal sense (especially in irony)
commedia dell arte;italian comedy of the 16th to 18th centuries improvised from standardized situations and stock characters
flatulence;pompously embellished language
farce;a comedy characterized by broad satire and improbable situations
tone of voice;the quality of a person's voice. 'he began in a conversational tone'. 'he spoke in a nervous tone of voice'
syllepsis;use of a word to govern two or more words though agreeing in number or case etc. with only one
meiosis;understatement, esp. expressing an affirmative by negating its contrary
antinomasia;substitution of a title for a name
exaggeration;extravagant exaggeration
eloquence;powerful and effective language
gemination;doubling of a word or words
accentuation;the relative prominence of a syllable (especially with regard to stress or pitch). 'he put the stress on the wrong syllable'
