choral ode;ode sung by the chorus in classical greek drama
illumination;a painting or drawing included in a book (especially in illuminated medieval manuscripts)
semiquaver;a musical note having the time value of a sixteenth of a whole note
stop order;an order to a broker to sell (buy) when the price of a security falls (rises) to a designated level
simulation;a representation of something (sometimes on a smaller scale)
crocheting;something created by interlocking looped stitches with a hooked needle
interactive multimedia;a multimedia system in which related items of information are connected and can be presented together
hockey clinic;a meeting at which hockey players receive special evaluation and instruction
indictment;a formal document written for a prosecuting attorney charging a person with some offense
crewelwork;embroidery done with loosely twisted worsted yarn
death warrant;a warrant to execute the death sentence
greek mode;any of the descending diatonic scales in the music of classical greece
debenture;a bond that is backed by the credit of the issuer but not by any specific collateral
printing;reproduction by applying ink to paper as for publication
paper;a scholarly article describing the results of observations or stating hypotheses. 'he has written many scientific papers'
salt;negotiations between the us and the ussr opened in 1969 in helsinki designed to limit both countries' stock of nuclear weapons
cataloged procedure;a set of control statements that have been placed in a library and can be retrieved by name
snort;a disrespectful laugh
halftone;a print obtained from photoengraving
number system;any notation for the representation of numbers
callathump;a noisy mock serenade (made by banging pans and kettles) to a newly married couple
number;one of a series published periodically. 'she found an old issue of the magazine in her dentist's waitingroom'
fixed point representation system;a radix numeration system in which the location of the decimal point is fixed by convention
mass;a musical setting for a mass
little dictionary;a dictionary that is small enough to carry in your pocket
street sign;a sign visible from the street
medicare check;a check reimbursing an aged person for the expenses of health care
library card;a card certifying the bearer's right to use the library
collegiate dictionary;an abridged dictionary of a size convenient to hold in the hand
nude;a painting of a naked figure
act;a legal document codifying the result of deliberations of a committee or society or legislative body
copy;matter to be printed. exclusive of graphical materials
contract of hazard;a sale of a tract of land as a whole without a warranty as to the acreage
ground bass;a short melody in the bass that is constantly repeated
semblance;a graphic image of a person or thing
subcontract;a contract assigning to another party some obligations of a prior contract
codification;a set of rules or principles or laws especially written ones
precis;a summary of the main points of an argument or theory
new testament;the collection of books of the gospels, acts of the apostles, pauline and other epistles, and revelation. composed soon after christ's death. the second half of the christian bible
mumbling;indistinct enunciation
piece;an object created by a sculptor. 'it was not known who created the piece'
print making;a picture or design printed from an engraving
expressionism;a genre of german painting that tried to show the subjective responses to scenes rather than the scenes themselves
genuflexion;the act of bending the knees in worship or reverence
raspberry;a cry or noise made to express displeasure or contempt
ticket;a commercial document showing that the holder is entitled to ride on public transportation or enter a public entertainment
bitmap;an image represented as a two dimensional array of brightness values for pixels
chinoiserie;a style in art reflecting chinese influence. elaborately decorated and intricately patterned
composition;something that is created by arranging several things to form a unified whole. 'he envied the composition of their faculty'
sleep talking;uttering speech while asleep
exemplification;showing by example
hieratic;a cursive form of egyptian hieroglyphics. used especially by the priests
floater;an insurance policy covering loss of movable property (e.g. jewelry) regardless of its location
foreign draft;a bill of exchange that is drawn in one country and made payable in another
evensong;(anglican church) a daily evening service with prayers prescribed in the book of common prayer
insert;a folded section placed between the leaves of another publication
rewriting;editing that involves writing something again
hallel;(judaism) a chant of praise (psalms 113 through 118) used at passover and shabuoth and sukkoth and hanukkah and rosh hodesh
trace program;a utility program that exhibits the sequence and results of executing the instructions in another program
form letter;a letter that is printed in multiple copies and mailed to a list of recipients
booklet;a small book usually having a paper cover
whodunit;a story about a crime (usually murder) presented as a novel or play or movie
ship s papers;official papers which a ship is legally required to have. related to ownership, cargo, etc.
bronze;a sculpture made of bronze
lead;the introductory section of a story. 'it was an amusing lead-in to a very serious matter'
chiaroscuro;a monochrome picture made by using several different shades of the same color
driver;(computer science) a program that determines how a computer will communicate with a peripheral device
baseball clinic;a meeting at which baseball players receive special evaluation and instruction. 'a summer baseball clinic for promising young players'
huddle;(informal) a quick private conference
marriage contract;a prenuptial agreement or contract
fashion plate;an illustration of the latest fashion in dress
enabling act;a provision in a law that confers on appropriate officials the power to implement or enforce the law
doctor s bill;statement of charges for medical services
sextet;a musical composition written for six performers
mantra;(hinduism or buddhism) a sacred word or syllable repeated in prayer or meditation
mend;sewing that repairs a worn or torn place in a garment
machine readable text;electronic text that is stored as strings of characters and that can be displayed in a variety of formats
prompt copy;the copy of the playscript used by the prompter
pious platitude;insincere talk about religion or morals
atonality;the absence of a key. alternative to the diatonic system
typing;writing done with a typewriter
slogan;a favorite saying of a sect or political group
doxology;a hymn or verse in christian liturgy glorifying god
xerox copy;a copy made by the xerox process
devil;a word used in exclamations of confusion. 'what the devil' or 'the deuce with it' or 'the dickens you say'
wickerwork;something made of interlaced slender branches (especially willow branches)
assembly program;a program to translate assembly language into computer language
piece;an artistic or literary composition. 'he wrote an interesting piece on iran'. 'the children acted out a comic piece to amuse the guests'
sneak preview;a preview to test audience reactions
yowling;a very loud utterance. 'his bellow filled the hallway'
stay of execution;an order whereby a judgment is precluded from being executed for a specific period of time
derivative;a financial instrument whose value is based on another security
contingency procedure;an alternative to the normal procedure. triggered if an unusual but anticipated situation arises
certiorari;a common law writ issued by a superior court to one of inferior jurisdiction demanding the record of a particular case
fanfare;a showy outward display
choreography;the representation of dancing by symbols as music is represented by notes
set phrase;an expression whose meanings cannot be inferred from the meanings of the words that make it up
flash card;a card with words or numbers of pictures that are flashed to a class by the teacher
titter;a nervous restrained laugh
act;a subdivision of a play or opera or ballet
rundown;a concluding summary (as in presenting a case before a law court)
signature;a melody used to identify a performer or a dance band or radio/tv program
cyclopaedia;a reference work (often in several volumes) containing articles on various topics (often arranged in alphabetical order) dealing with the entire range of human knowledge or with some particular specialty
bible;a book regarded as authoritative in its field
personal letter;a letter dealing with personal affairs
black and white;the result of the printing process
written agreement;a legal document summarizing the agreement between parties
bus ticket;a ticket good for a ride on a bus
mezzo rilievo;a sculptural relief between low relief and high relief
permit;a legal document giving official permission to do something
middle c;the note designated by the first ledger line below the treble staff. 261.63 hertz
bull session;(informal) an informal discussion (usually among men)
obligato;a persistent but subordinate motif
blue sky law;a state law regulating the sale of securities in an attempt to control the sale of securities in fraudulent enterprises
mackle;a printed impression that is blurred or doubled
manikin;a life-size dummy used to display clothes
numbers;the fourth book of the old testament. contains a record of the number of israelites who followed moses out of egypt
rest;a musical notation indicating a silence of a specified duration
flashback;a transition (in literary or theatrical works or films) to an earlier event or scene
basso rilievo;a relief in which the figures project only slightly from the surrounding plane surface. no figures are undercut
quote;a passage or expression that is quoted
contract of adhesion;a contract that heavily restricts one party while leaving the other free (as some standard form printed contracts). implies inequality in bargaining power
cut;the part that is omitted when an editorial change shortens a written passage. 'an editor's deletions frequently upset young authors'
serious music;music conforming to an established form and appealing to critical interest and developed musical taste
gapped scale;a musical scale with fewer than seven notes
statute;an act passed by a legislative body
health code;set of standards established and enforced by government for health requirements as in plumbing etc
suite;a musical composition of several movements only loosely connected
declaration of estimated tax;return required of a taxpayer whose tax withheld from income does not meet the tax liability for the year
x ray picture;a photograph made by exposing photographic film to x rays. used in medical diagnosis
saraband;music composed for dancing the saraband
account;a statement of money owed for goods or services. 'he paid his bill and left'. 'send me an account of what i owe'
hemidemisemiquaver;a musical note having the time value of a sixty-fourth of a whole note
exchange;a mutual expression of views (especially an unpleasant one). 'they had a bitter exchange'
literature;creative writing of recognized artistic value
effusion;an unrestrained expression of emotion
seascape;a painting of the sea
decimal notation;any notation that uses 10 different characters (usually the digits 0 to 9)
court order;a writ issued by a court of law requiring a person to do something or to refrain from doing something
outturn;what is produced in a given time period
diwan;a collection of persian or arabic poems (usually by one author)
idyll;a musical composition that evokes rural life
signature tune;a melody used to identify a performer or a dance band or radio/tv program
splutter;an utterance (of words) with spitting sounds (as in rage)
cancel;a notation cancelling a previous sharp or flat
short aria;a short aria
intro;a brief introductory passage to a piece of popular music
consuetudinary;a manual describing the customs of a particular group (especially the ceremonial practices of a monastic order)
scowl;a facial expression of dislike or displeasure
banker s draft;a draft drawn by a bank against funds deposited in another bank
locution;a word or phrase that particular people use in particular situations. 'pardon the expression'
octal numeration system;a positional system of numeration that uses octal digits and a radix of 8
evangel;four books in the new testament that tell the story of christ's life and teachings
contract;a binding agreement between two or more persons especially one enforceable by law
counterpart;a duplicate copy
stitchery;an article made by sewing. 'she put her sewing back in the basket'
gloss;an alphabetical list of technical terms in some specialized field of knowledge. usually published as an appendix to a text on that field
instruction manual;a manual usually accompanying a technical device and explaining how to install or operate it
dry point;a print produced by dry point engraving
nothingness;empty or insincere or exaggerated talk. that's a lot of wind'. 'don't give me any of that jazz'
interdiction;a decree that prohibits something
serial publication;a periodical that appears at scheduled times
medical bill;statement of charges for medical services
postiche;something false. not what it seems to be
unsecured bond;a bond that is backed by the credit of the issuer but not by any specific collateral
on license;a license to sell liquor for consumption on the premises
ventriloquist s dummy;a wooden figure into which a ventriloquist projects the voice
elizabethan sonnet;a sonnet consisting three quatrains and a concluding couplet in iambic pentameter with the rhyme pattern abab cdcd efef gg
holloa;a very loud utterance. 'his bellow filled the hallway'
oral communication;communication by word of mouth. 'his speech was slurred'. 'he uttered harsh language'. 'he recorded the language of the streets'
selection;a passage selected from a larger work. 'he presented exerpts from william james' philosophical writings'
personal;a short newspaper article about a particular person or group
language;communication by word of mouth. 'his speech was slurred'. 'he uttered harsh language'. 'he recorded the language of the streets'
cyclopedia;a reference work (often in several volumes) containing articles on various topics (often arranged in alphabetical order) dealing with the entire range of human knowledge or with some particular specialty
vade mecum;a concise reference book providing specific information about a subject or location
master copy;an original (audio recording) from which copies can be made
cackle;a loud laugh suggestive of a hen's cackle
cad;software used in art and architecture and engineering and manufacturing to assist in precision drawing
object code;the machine-language output of a compiler that is ready for execution on a particular computer
dummy;a figure representing the human form
written matter;matter to be printed. exclusive of graphical materials
folk art;art of unknown origin that reflects traditional values of a society
scatology;a preoccupation with scatology
japan;work decorated and varnished in the japanese manner with a glossy durable black lacquer
reference manual;a manual containing information organized in a summary manner
showing;the display of motion picture
douay bible;an english translation of the vulgate by roman catholic scholars
serograph;a print made by forcing ink through a fine (silk) mesh that has been treated to give blank areas
graphical record;a drawing illustrating the relations between certain quantities plotted with reference to a set of axes
financial statement;a document showing credits and debits
wind;empty or insincere or exaggerated talk. that's a lot of wind'. 'don't give me any of that jazz'
lock up option;an option to buy the crown jewels offered to a white knight in order to forestall a hostile takeover
folk song;a song that is traditionally sung by the common people of a region and forms part of their culture
talks;a discussion intended to produce an agreement. 'the buyout negotiation lasted several days'
command line interface;a user interface in which you type commands instead of choosing them from a menu or selecting an icon
article;a separate section of a legal document (as a statute or contract or will)
haydn;the music of haydn
knit stitch;a basic knitting stitch
phlebogram;an x ray of a vein injected with a radiopaque contrast medium
rondolet;a shorter form of rondeau
stereoscopic photograph;two photographs taken from slightly different angles that appear three-dimensional when viewed together
swearword;profane or obscene expression usually of surprise or anger
enactment;a legal document codifying the result of deliberations of a committee or society or legislative body
business card;a card on which are printed the person's name and business affiliation
cadenza;a brilliant solo passage occuring near the end of a piece of music
cant;insincere talk about religion or morals
dominant;(music) the fifth note of the diatonic scale
matter;written material (especially in books or magazines). 'he always took some reading matter with him on the plane'
cinquefoil;an ornamental carving consisting of five arcs arranged in a circle
handicraft;a work produced by hand labor
impressionism;a genre of french painting that pictured appearances by strokes of unmixed colors to give the impression of reflected light
clamour;loud and persistent outcry from many people. 'he ignored the clamor of the crowd'
legal instrument;a document that states some contractual relationship or grants some right
conga;music composed for dancing the conga
fifth;the musical interval between one note and another five notes away from it
review;a summary that repeats the substance of a longer discussion
musical harmony;the structure of music with respect to the composition and progression of chords
landler;music in triple time for dancing the landler
time exposure;a photograph produced with a relatively long exposure time
turnout;what is produced in a given time period
penmanship;beautiful handwriting
plot;the story that is told in a novel or play or movie etc.. 'the characters were well drawn but the plot was banal'
christmas carol;joyful religious song celebrating the birth of christ
chin wag;light informal conversation for social occasions
resolution;a dissonant chord is followed by a consonant chord
sixteenth note;a musical note having the time value of a sixteenth of a whole note
cursive;handwriting in which letters are set down in full and cursively connected within words
curtsy;bending at the knees. a gesture of respect made by women
indent;(british) an order for goods to be exported or imported
spelling checker;an electronic dictionary in a word processor that can be used to catch misspelled words
lyric poem;a short poem of songlike quality
trojan horse;a large hollow wooden figure of a horse (filled with greek soldiers) left by the greeks outside troy during the trojan war
air;a succession of notes forming a distinctive sequence. 'she was humming an air from beethoven'
genre painting;a style depicting everyday life
compendium;a publication containing a variety of works
obeisance;bending the head or body or knee as a sign of reverence or submission or shame
arabic script;an alphabetic script used to write the arabic dialects (and borrowed to write urdu)
purchase order;a commercial document used to request someone to supply something in return for payment. 'ibm received an order for a hundred computers'
amended return;a tax return that corrects the information in an earlier return
finger painting;a painting produced by spreading paint with the fingers
news story;an article reporting news
arbitration;negotiation to resolve differences conducted by some impartial party
sound;the audible part of a transmitted signal. 'they always raise the audio for commercials'
report;an essay (especially one written as an assignment). 'he got an a on his composition'
letter bond;a bond that has not been registered with the securities and exchange commission and cannot be sold to the general public
trust deed;a written instrument legally conveying property to a trustee often used to secure an obligation such as a mortgage or promissory note
forgery;a copy that is presented as the original
photo offset printing;a method of offset printing using photomechanical plates
homestead law;a law conferring privileges on owners of homesteads
adage;a condensed but memorable saying embodying some important fact of experience that is taken as true by many people
measure;a statute in draft before it becomes law. 'they held a public hearing on the bill'
charcoal;a drawing made with charcoal
prescription;written instructions for an optician on the lenses for a given person
letter security;a stock or bond that is not registered with the securities exchange commission and cannot be sold in the public market
grisaille;monochrome painting or stained glass etc., in shades of gray imitating the effect of relief
address;a sign in front of a house or business carrying the conventional form by which its location is described
merger agreement;contract governing the merger of two or more companies
virtu;productions of art (especially fine antiques)
handwriting;something written by hand. 'she recognized his handwriting'. 'his hand was illegible'
spectrogram;a photographic record of a spectrum
diplomatic negotiations;negotiation between nations
transition;a passage that connects a topic to one that follows
still;a static photograph (especially one taken from a movie and used for advertising purposes). 'he wanted some stills for a magazine ad'
duette;a musical composition for two performers
plagiarism;a piece of writing that has been copied from someone else and is presented as being your own work
edition;the form in which a text (especially a printed book) is published
floating point representation system;a radix numeration system in which the location of the decimal point is indicated by an exponent of the radix. the floating-point representation of 0.0012 is 0.l2-2 where -2 is the exponent
copy editing;putting something (as a literary work) into suitable form for a printer
hardcover;a book with cardboard or cloth or leather covers
sight;anything that is seen. 'he was a familiar sight on the television' or 'they went to paris to see the sights'
pindaric;an ode form used by pindar. has triple groups of triple units
good book;the sacred writings of the christian religion. 'he went to carry the word to the heathen'
bawdry;lewd or obscene talk or writing. ' it was smoking-room bawdry' or 'they published a collection of elizabethan bawdy'
syncope;the loss of sounds in the interior of a word (as in 'fo'c'sle' for 'forecastle')
napierian logarithm;a logarithm to the base e
sale in gross;a sale of a tract of land as a whole without a warranty as to the acreage
lease;a contract granting use or occupation of property during a specified time for a specified payment
scraping;a deep bow with the foot drawn backwards (indicating excessive humility). 'all that bowing and scraping did not impress him'
scoreboard;a large board for displaying the score of a contest (and some other information)
time draft;a draft payable at a specified future date
draft;preliminary version of a written work
talk;an exchange of ideas via conversation. 'let's have more work and less talk around here'
miniature;a painting or drawing included in a book (especially in illuminated medieval manuscripts)
orchestration;an arrangement of a piece of music for performance by an orchestra or band
farm bill;a statute that would regulate farm production and prices
hypertext;machine-readable text that is not sequential but is organized so that related items of information are connected. 'let me introduce the word hypertext to mean a body of written or pictorial material interconnected in such a complex way that it could not conveniently be presented or represented on paper'--ted nelson
laugh;a facial expression characteristic of a person laughing. 'his face wrinkled in a silent laugh of derision'
higher criticism;the scientific study of biblical writings to determine their origin and meaning
creche;a representation of christ's nativity in the stable at bethlehem
epigraph;an engraved inscription
bravado;a swaggering show of courage
magazine;a paperback periodic publication as a physical object. 'tripped over a pile of magazines'
silhouette;a drawing of the outline of an object. filled in with some uniform color
ecclesiastical mode;any of a system of modes used in gregorian chants up until 1600. derived historically from the greek mode
simulacrum;a likeness of a person (especially in the form of sculpture). 'the coin bears an effigy of lincoln'. 'the emperor's tomb had his image carved in stone'
primer;an introductory textbook
vulgarism;obscene word or phrase
program line;(computer science) a line of code written as part of a computer program
honeyed words;inconsequential expressions of affection. 'he whispered sweet nothings into her ear'
clef;a musical notation written on a staff indicating the pitch of the notes following it
scene;the painted structures of a stage set that are intended to suggest a particular locale. 'they worked all night painting the scenery'
idol;a material object that is worshipped as a god. 'thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image'. 'money was his god'
symphonic poem;an orchestral composition based on literature or folk tales
writ of right;a writ ordering that land be restored to its rightful owner
cry;a loud utterance of emotion (especially when inarticulate). 'a cry of rage'. 'a yell of pain'
share;any of the equal portions into which the capital stock of a corporation is divided and ownership of which is evidenced by a stock certificate. 'he bought 100 shares of ibm at the market price'
fishing license;a license authorizing the bearer to fish during a specified period of time
roaring;a very loud utterance. 'his bellow filled the hallway'
snicker;a disrespectful laugh
millwork;woodwork that has been machined at a mill
slide;rapid sliding up or down the musical scale. 'the violinist was indulgent with his swoops and slides'
mozart;the music of mozart. 'the concert was mostly mozart'
opus;a musical work that has been created. 'the composition is written in four movements'
acts;a book of the new testament
hieroglyphic;a writing system using picture symbols. used in ancient egypt
brevet;a document entitling a commissioned officer to hold a higher rank temporarily (but without higher pay)
aria;an elaborate song for solo voice
pavane;music composed for dancing the pavane
cacography;poor handwriting
hotel bill;statement of charges for staying in a hotel
income tax return;document giving the tax collector information about the taxpayer's tax liability. 'his gross income was enough that he had to file a tax return'
negotiable instrument;an unconditional order or promise to pay an amount of money
linecut;a print obtained from a line drawing
analects;a collection of excerpts from a literary work
draft copy;preliminary version of a written work
pamphlet;a small book usually having a paper cover
non standard speech;speech that differs from the usual accepted easily-recognizable speech of native adult members of a speech community
beta software;pre-release software that has received an alpha test but still has more bugs than a regular release. 'beta software is usually available only to particular users who will test it'
letter stock;stock that has not been registered with the securities and exchange commission and cannot be sold to the general public
recapitulation;a summary that repeats the substance of a longer discussion
bass clef;a clef that puts the f below middle c on the fourth line of a staff
text;a book prepared for use in schools or colleges. 'his economics textbook is in its tenth edition'
gros point;needlepoint done with large stitches
apocalypse;revelations of saint john the divine in the new testament
jig;music in three-four time for dancing a jig
skiagram;a photographic image produced on a radiosensitive surface by radiation other than visible light (especially by x-rays or gamma rays)
bill of exchange;a document ordering the payment of money. drawn by one person or bank on another
caning;something made of interlaced slender branches (especially willow branches)
work of art;a product of one of the fine arts (especially a painting or sculpture of artistic merit)
chromolithography;single- or multi-color lithography
storyline;the plot of a book or play or film
fair copy;a clean copy of a corrected draft
psalm;one of the 150 lyrical poems and prayers that comprise the book of psalms in the old testament. said to have been written by david
third;the musical interval between one note and another three notes away from it. 'a simple harmony written in major thirds'
mystery story;a story about a crime (usually murder) presented as a novel or play or movie
angelus;a prayer said 3 times a day by roman catholics in memory of the annunciation
roundup;a summary list. as in e.g. 'a news roundup'
study;a composition intended to develop one aspect of the performer's technique. 'a study in spiccato bowing'
utility bond;a bond issued to finance the construction of public utility services
political platform;a document stating the aims and principles of a political party. 'their candidate simply ignored the party platform'. 'they won the election even though they offered no positive program'
cant;a characteristic language of a particular group (as among thieves). 'they don't speak our lingo'
counterpoint;a musical form involving the simultaneous sound of two or more melodies
gospel according to luke;one of the four gospels in the new testament. contains details of jesus's birth and early life
web browser;a program used to view html documents
hand;something written by hand. 'she recognized his handwriting'. 'his hand was illegible'
title;a legal document signed and sealed and delivered to effect a transfer of property and to show the legal right to possess it. 'he signed the deed'. 'he kept the title to his car in the glove compartment'
call option;the option to buy a given stock (or stock index or commodity future) at a given price before a given date
swearing;profane or obscene expression usually of surprise or anger
small talk;light informal conversation for social occasions
sapphic ode;an ode with several stanzas
hagiology;literature narrating the lives (and legends) of the saints
diagram;a drawing intended to explain how something works. a drawing showing the relation between the parts
glyptography;carvings or engravings (especially on precious stones)
picture;illustrations used to decorate or explain a text. 'the dictionary had many pictures'
paper;a newspaper as a physical object: 'when it began to rain he covered his head with a newspaper'
wellspring;an abundant source. 'she was a well of information'
figurine;a small carved or molded figure
semibreve;a musical note having the longest time value
schottische;music performed for dancing the schottische
diagnostic program;a program that recognizes and explains faults in the equipment or mistakes in a computer program
dissolve;in films: a gradual transition from one scene to the next. the next scene is gradually superimposed as the former scene fades out
crank letter;a hostile (usually anonymous) letter
innovation;a new device or process created by study and experimentation
backdrop;scenery hung at back of stage
script;something written by hand. 'she recognized his handwriting'. 'his hand was illegible'
point system;a system of writing or printing using patterns of raised dots that can be read by touch
overdraft;a draft in excess of the credit balance
gush;an unrestrained expression of emotion
voluntary;composition (often improvised) for a solo instrument (especially solo organ) and not a regular part of a service or performance
bookhure;a small book usually having a paper cover
give and take;an exchange of views on some topic. 'we had a good discussion'. 'we had a word or two about it'
revised standard version;a revision of the american standard version
interactive multimedia system;a multimedia system in which related items of information are connected and can be presented together
invoice;a statement of money owed for goods or services. 'he paid his bill and left'. 'send me an account of what i owe'
straddle;the option to but or sell a given stock (or stock index or commodity future) at a given price before a given date. consists of an equal number of put and call options
utility routine;a routine that can be used as needed
living will;a document written by someone still legally capable requesting that they should be allowed to die if subsequently severely disabled or suffering terminal illness. 'after he discovered he had aids he drew up a living will'
deductible;a clause in an insurance policy that relieves the insurer of responsibility to pay the initial loss up to a stated amount
handcraft;a work produced by hand labor
time signature;a musical notation indicating the number of beats to a measure and kind of note that takes a beat
concordat;a signed written agreement between two or more parties (nations) to perform some action
ephemeris;an annual publication containing tables that give the positions of the celestial bodies throughout the year. 'today computers calculate the ephemerides'
whole step;a musical interval of two semitones
operating instructions;a manual usually accompanying a technical device and explaining how to install or operate it
short story;a prose narrative shorter than a novel
shanty;a rhythmical work song originally sung by sailors
interpreter;(computer science) a program that translates and executes source language statements one line at a time
print;a picture or design printed from an engraving
suspense account;an account used temporarily to carry doubtful receipts and disbursements or discrepancies pending their analysis and permanent classification
religious song;religious music for singing
patchwork;pieces of different materials sewn together in a pattern
active application;an application that is currently running and in the foreground
rilievo;sculpture in which the figures are raised above a surrounding flat plane
nasalization;the utterance of sounds modulated by the nasal resonators
serialism;20th century music that uses of a definite order of notes as a thematic basis for a musical composition
authoring language;software that can be used to develop interactive computer programs without the technically demanding task of computer programming
writ of mandamus;an extraordinary writ commanding an official to perform a ministerial act that the law recognizes as an absolute duty and not a matter for the official's discretion. used only when all other judicial remedies fail
review;a periodical that publishes critical essays on current affairs or literature or art
shrug;a gesture involving the shoulders
talmud;sacred writings of orthodox judaism
sea chantey;a rhythmical work song originally sung by sailors
universal product code;code of a series of vertical bars printed on consumer product packages indicating price etc
free verse;unrhymed verse without a consistent metrical pattern
chef d oeuvre;the most outstanding piece of work of a creative artist or craftsman
bass;the lowest part in polyphonic music
blueprint;photographic print of plans or technical drawings etc.
bible;the sacred writings of the christian religion. 'he went to carry the word to the heathen'
vignette;a photograph whose edges shade off gradually
tatting;handmade lace made by looping and knotting a single thread on a small shuttle
common chord;a 3-note major or minor chord. a note and its third and fifth tones
shot;a consecutive series of pictures that constitutes a unit of action in a film
c program;a program written in c
literature;published writings in a particular style on a particular subject. 'the technical literature'. 'one aspect of waterloo has not yet been treated in the literature'
abridgement;a shortened version of a written work
clinic;meeting for diagnosis of problems and instruction or remedial work in a particular activity
passion play;a play representing the passion of christ
horoscope;a diagram of the positions of the planets and signs of the zodiac at a particular time and place
organic law;law determining the fundamental political principles of a government
molding;a sculpture produced by molding
reharmonization;a piece of music whose original harmony has been revised
waving;the act of signaling by a movement of the hand
interface;(computer science) a program that controls a display for the user (usually on a computer monitor) and that allows the user to interact with the system
reprint;a publication (such as a book) that is reprinted without changes or editing and offered again for sale
colloquy;formal conversation
alcaic;verse in the meter used in greek and latin poetry consisting of strophes of 4 tetrametric lines. reputedly invented by alcaeus
genesis;the first book of the old testament: tells of creation. adam and eve. the fall of man. cain and abel. noah and the flood. god's covenant with abraham. abraham and isaac. jacob and esau. joseph and his brothers
blue book;a blue-covered booklet used in universities for writing examinations
whoop;a loud hooting cry of exultation or excitement
cyberart;art that is produced with the help of computer hardware and software
sign of the cross;a gesture with the right hand moving to form a cross. used by catholics as a profession of faith
paraphrasis;rewording for the purpose of clarification
collotype;a kind of color printing, used for the finest facsimile reproductions of works of art
appropriation bill;a legislative act proposing to authorize the expenditure of public funds for a specified purpose
computer programme;(computer science) a sequence of instructions that a computer can interpret and execute. 'the program required several hundred lines of code'
drinking song;a song celebrating the joys of drinking. sung at drinking parties
binary numeration system;a positional system of numeration that uses binary digits and a radix of 2
certificate;a document attesting to the truth of certain stated facts
speech;communication by word of mouth. 'his speech was slurred'. 'he uttered harsh language'. 'he recorded the language of the streets'
mosaic;a freeware browser
novel;a novel as a physical object. 'his bookcases were filled with nothing but novels'
transliteration;transcribing from one alphabet to another
lead sheet;a sheet containing the words and melody for a song (and some indication of harmony) written in simple form
bilateral contract;a contract involving mutual promises (each part is both promisor and promisee)
limited edition;an edition that is restricted to a specific number of copies
op art;a style of abstract art popular in the 1960s. produces dramatic visual effects with colors and contrasts that are difficult for the eye to resolve
aleatory contract;a contract whose performance by one party depends on the occurrence of an uncertain contingent event (but if it is contingent on the outcome of a wager it is not enforceable)
laughter;the sound of laughing
delineation;a drawing of the outlines of forms or objects
back matter;written matter following the main text of a book
encyclopaedia;a reference work (often in several volumes) containing articles on various topics (often arranged in alphabetical order) dealing with the entire range of human knowledge or with some particular specialty
cutaway model;a drawing or model of something in which the outside is omitted to reveal the inner parts
cheque;a written order directing a bank to pay money. 'he paid all his bills by check'
whisper;speaking without vibration of the vocal cords
fundamental law;law determining the fundamental political principles of a government
telegraph form;a form to use when sending a telegram
block diagram;a diagram showing the interconnections between the components of system (especially an electronic system)
certificate of incorporation;state approval of the articles of incorporation of a corporation
coulisse;scenery situated in the wings
translator;a program that translates one programming language into another
anamorphosis;an image distorted in such a way that it becomes visible only when viewed in a special manner
exclaiming;an abrupt excited utterance. 'she gave an exclamation of delight'. 'there was much exclaiming over it'
overappraisal;an appraisal that is too high
encyclical;a letter from the pope sent to all roman catholic bishops throughout the world
arrangement;a piece of music that has been adapted for performance by a particular set of voices or instruments
notice;a short critical review. 'the play received good notices'
similitude;a duplicate copy
antistrophe;the section of a choral ode answering a previous strophe in classical greek drama. the second of two metrically corresponding sections in a poem
job;(computer science) a program application that may consist of several steps but is a single logical unit
passage;particularly a section of medium length
marriage license;a license authorizing a man and a woman to marry
consultation;a conference between two or more people to consider a particular question. 'frequent consultations with his lawyer'. 'a consultation of several medical specialists'
armenian alphabet;a writing system having an alphabet of 38 letters in which the armenian language is written
coupon;a negotiable certificate that can be detached and redeemed as needed
autograph album;an album for autographs
darn;a euphemism for 'damn'
certification;a document attesting to the truth of certain stated facts
panel discussion;discussion of a subject of public interest by a group of persons forming a panel usually before an audience
penny dreadful;a melodramatic paperback novel
spiritual;a kind of religious song originated by blacks in the southern us
tone;a notation representing the pitch and duration of a musical sound. 'the singer held the note too long'
soprano clef;a clef that puts middle c on the bottom line of the staff
commercial art;art used for commercial purposes (as in advertising)
overhand stitch;a stitch passing over an edge vertically
supervisor;a program that controls the execution of other programs
lied;a german art song of the 19th century
newspaper clipping;an excerpt cut from a newspaper or magazine. 'he searched through piles of letters and clippings'
quadrille;music for dancing the quadrille
onomasticon;a list of proper nouns naming persons or places
prophets;the second of three divisions of the hebrew scriptures
call option;an option to buy
mahabharatum;(hinduism) a sacred epic sanskrit poem of india dealing in many episodes with the struggle between two rival families
mezzotint;a print produced by an engraving that has been scraped to represent light or shade
manifestation;expression without words. 'tears are an expression of grief'. 'the pulse is a reflection of the heart's condition'
membership card;a card certifying membership in an organization
linguistic atlas;an atlas showing the distribution of distinctive linguistic features
quip;a witty saying
get well card;a card expressing get-well wishes
monochrome;a painting done in a range of tones of a single color
acceptance;banking: a time draft drawn on and accepted by a bank
figurehead;on the bow of some sailing vessels
introduction;the first section of a communication
computer backup;(computer science) a copy of a file or directory on a separate storage device. 'he made a backup in case the original was accidentally damaged or erased'
workpiece;a piece of metal being machined
blank;a substitute for a taboo word. 'i hit the blank blank car'
realism;art and literature that represents events and social conditions as they actually are (without idealization)
jinx;an evil spell. 'a witch put a curse on his whole family'
anthology;a collection of selected literary passages
review article;an essay or article that gives a critical evaluation (as of a book or play)
wood engraving;a print made from a woodcut
recessional;a hymn that is sung at the end of a service as the clergy and choir withdraw
sonnet;a verse form consisting of 14 lines with a fixed rhyme scheme
random number generator;a routine designed to yield a random number
period piece;any work of art whose special value lies in its evocation of a historical period
invention;a new device or process created by study and experimentation
scherzo;a fast movement (usually in triple time)
handel;the music of handel
guidepost;a post bearing a sign that shows the way
curtsey;bending at the knees. a gesture of respect made by women
gospel according to mark;the shortest of the four gospels in the new testament
skywriting;writing formed in the sky by smoke released from an airplane
bill of attainder;a legislative act finding a person guilty of treason or felony without a trial
command line;commands that a user types in in order to run an application
angiocardiogram;a series of x rays representing the action of the heart and its blood vessels after the injection of a radiopaque substance
photomicrograph;a photograph taken with the help of a microscope
easter card;a card expressing an easter greeting
outburst;an unrestrained expression of emotion
equal area projection;a map projection in which quadrilaterals formed by meridians and parallels have an area on the map proportional to their area on the globe
charivari;a noisy mock serenade (made by banging pans and kettles) to a newly married couple
opening;the initial part of the introduction. 'the opening established the basic theme'
hymnary;a songbook containing a collection of hymns
rewrite;something that has been written again. 'the rewrite was much better'
expression;expression without words. 'tears are an expression of grief'. 'the pulse is a reflection of the heart's condition'
reference work;a book to which you can refer for authoritative facts. 'he contributed articles to the basic reference work on that topic'
epigram;a witty saying
hoot;a loud raucous cry as of an awl
habeas corpus;a writ ordering a prisoner to be brought before a judge
depiction;a drawing of the outlines of forms or objects
artwork;photographs or other visual representations in a printed publication
face;a contorted facial expression. 'she made a grimace at the prospect'
alla breve;a musical time signature indicating two or four half notes to a measure
newspaper article;an article reporting news
software system;(computer science) written programs or procedures or rules and associated documentation pertaining to the operation of a computer system and that are stored in read/write memory
magazine article;an article published in a magazine
playlet;a short play
jump cut;an immediate transition from one scene to another
knit;a basic knitting stitch
kotow;a former chinese custom of touching the ground with the forehead as a sign of respect or submission
driver s license;a license authorizing the bearer to drive a motor vehicle
dictum;an opinion voiced by a judge on a point of law not directly bearing on the case in question and therefore not binding
auditory communication;"communication that relies on hearing"
accord;a written agreement between two states or sovereigns
impeachment;a formal document charging a public official with misconduct in office
bucolic;a short descriptive poem of rural or pastoral life
fake;something false. not what it seems to be
judgment;the legal document stating the reasons for a judicial decision. 'opinions are usually written by a single judge'
polyphonic music;music arranged in parts for several voices or instruments
franchise;an authorization to sell a company's goods or services in a particular place
cabinetwork;woodwork finished by hand by a cabinetmaker
alphabetic script;a writing system based on alphabetic characters
mazurka;music composed for dancing the mazurka
vocabulary;a listing of the words used in some enterprise
resignation;a formal document giving notice of your intention to resign. 'he submitted his resignation as of next month'
zodiac;(astrology) a circular diagram representing the 12 zodiacal constellations and showing their signs
church music;music composed for performance as part of religious ceremonies
roar;a very loud utterance. 'his bellow filled the hallway'
sanitory code;set of standards established and enforced by government for health requirements as in plumbing etc
legal document;a document that states some contractual relationship or grants some right
tax form;a form to use when paying your taxes
flourish;the act of waving
croak;a harsh hoarse utterance (as of a frog)
book of mormon;revealed to joseph smith in 1830 by an ancient prophet mormon. supposedly a record of ancient peoples of america translated by joseph smith
false return;an incorrect income tax return
satyr play;an ancient greek burlesque with a chorus of satyrs
enclosure;something (usually a supporting document) that is enclosed in an envelope with a covering letter
avestan;the script in which the ancient persian language of the avesta is written
inland bill;a bill of exchange that is both drawn and made payable in the same country
motive;a theme that is elaborated on in a piece of music
yakety yak;noisy talk
attestation;written declaration made under oath
catalogue;a book or pamphlet containing an enumeration of things. 'he found it in the sears catalog'
gui;a user interface based on graphics (icons and pictures and menus) instead of text. uses a mouse as well as a keyboard as an input device
slang;a characteristic language of a particular group (as among thieves). 'they don't speak our lingo'
alto relievo;a relief in which forms extend out from the background to at least half their depth
brainchild;a product of your creative thinking and work. 'he had little respect for the inspirations of other artists'
questionnaire;a form containing a set of questions. submitted to people to gain statistical information
treasure;something highly prized for its beauty or perfection
equal area map projection;a map projection in which quadrilaterals formed by meridians and parallels have an area on the map proportional to their area on the globe
alto rilievo;a sculptural relief in which more than half of each figure projects out from the surrounding plane surface
array;an impressive display. 'it was a bewildering array of books'. 'his tools were in an orderly array on the basement wall'
epilogue;a short speech (often in verse) addressed directly to the audience by an actor at the end of a play
travel and entertainment account;an account to which salespersons or executives can charge travel and entertainment expenses
plate;a full-page illustration (usually on slick paper)
bronx cheer;a cry or noise made to express displeasure or contempt
silk screen print;a print made by forcing ink through a fine (silk) mesh that has been treated to give blank areas
rescript;a legally binding command or decision entered on the court record (as if issued by a court or judge). 'a friend in new mexico said that the order caused no trouble out there'
woodcarving;a piece of art created by carving wood
overprint;something added by overprinting
nude painting;a painting of a naked figure
codicil;a supplement to a will. a testamentary instrument intended to alter an already executed will
abstract art;an abstract work of art. artistic content depends on internal form rather than pictorial representation
exode;a farcical afterpiece in the ancient roman theater
rhyme royal;a stanza form having seven lines of iambic pentameter. introduced by chaucer
folk music;the traditional and typically anonymous music that is an expression of the life of people in a community
flourish;a showy gesture. 'she entered with a great flourish'
application;a program that gives a computer instructions that provide the user with tools to accomplish a task. 'he has tried several different word processing applications'
copybook;a book containing models of good penmanship. used in teaching penmanship
government bond;a bond that is an iou on the us treasury. considered the safest security in the investment world
text edition;a book prepared for use in schools or colleges. 'his economics textbook is in its tenth edition'
sculpture;a three-dimensional work of art
sympathy card;a card expressing sympathy
duplicate;either of two things that correspond to one another exactly. 'he made a duplicate for the files'
rondeau;a musical form that is often the last movement of a sonata
anatomical reference;an expression that relates to anatomy
enlargement;a photographic print that has been enlarged
euphemism;an inoffensive expression that is substituted for one that is considered offensive
enjoinment;(law) a judicial remedy issued in order to prohibit a party from doing or continuing to do a certain activity
piece of music;a musical work that has been created. 'the composition is written in four movements'
hologram;the intermediate photographic record that contains information for reproducing a three-dimensional image by holography
holler;a very loud utterance. 'his bellow filled the hallway'
eclogue;a short descriptive poem of rural or pastoral life
landscape;a genre of art dealing with the depiction of natural scenery
learner s permit;a document authorizing the bearer to learn to drive an automobile
annual;a reference book that is published regularly once every year
spectacle;something or someone seen (especially a notable or unusual sight). 'the tragic spectacle of cripples trying to escape'
locus classicus;an authoritative and often-quoted passage
vernacular;the everyday speech of the people (as distinguished from literary language)
card;a card certifying the identity of the bearer. 'he had to show his card to get in'
venogram;an x ray of a vein injected with a radiopaque contrast medium
open letter;a letter of protest. addressed to one person but intended for the general public
soliloquy;speech you make to yourself
octave;a rhythmic group of eight lines of verse
adventure story;a story of an adventure
book of psalms;a collection of psalms for liturgical use
cachet;french history: the king could warrant imprisonment or death in a signed letter under his seal
cookbook;a book of recipes and cooking directions
lacework;work consisting of (or resembling) lace fabric
double bar;notation marking the end of principal parts of a musical composition. two adjacent bar lines
monitor program;a program that observes and regulates and controls or verifies the operations of a data-processing system
military commission;an official document issued by a government and conferring on the recipient the rank of an officer in the armed forces
image;a likeness of a person (especially in the form of sculpture). 'the coin bears an effigy of lincoln'. 'the emperor's tomb had his image carved in stone'
diploma;a document certifying the successful completion of a course of study
birthday card;a card expressing a birthday greeting
needlepoint;allover embroidered canvas resembling tapestry
quarterly;a periodical that is published every quarter
itinerary;a guidebook for travelers
agency security;a security issued by us government agencies or the federal land bank
abstract;a summary of the main points of an argument or theory
concerted music;music arranged in parts for several voices or instruments
stave;(music) the system of five horizontal lines on which the musical notes are written
unabridged dictionary;a dictionary that is claimed to be complete
grace note;an embellishing note usually written in smaller size
facial expression;a gesture executed with the facial muscles
hexadecimal notation;any notation that uses 16 different characters
service contract;a contract for maintenance services
account statement;a statement of recent transactions and the resulting balance. 'they send me an accounting every month'
umpirage;mediation by an umpire
square dance music;music performed for square dancing
bathos;a change from a serious subject to a disappointing one
postscript;textual matter that is added onto a publication. usually at the end
criminal law;the body of law dealing with crimes and their punishment
outcry;a loud utterance. often in protest or opposition. 'the speaker was interrupted by loud cries from the rear of the audience'
derivative instrument;a financial instrument whose value is based on another security
nomogram;a graphic representation of numerical relations
script;a particular orthography or writing system
notational system;a technical system of symbols used to represent special things
savings bond;non-negotiable government bond. cannot be bought and sold once the original purchase is made
sexadecimal notation;any notation that uses 16 different characters
birth certificate;a copy of the official document giving details of a person's birth
school dictionary;a dictionary specially written for those learning a foreign language
headshot;a photograph of a person's head
column;an article giving opinions or perspectives
subtonic;(music) the seventh note of the diatonic scale
single crochet;a crochet stitch
written document;writing that provides information (especially information of an official nature)
chantey;a rhythmical work song originally sung by sailors
machine stitch;made by a sewing machine using two threads
vertical section;a mechanical drawing showing the interior of an object as if made by a vertical plane passing through it
oratorio;a musical setting for a religious text
patois;a characteristic language of a particular group (as among thieves). 'they don't speak our lingo'
written text;something written, esp. copied from one medium to another, as a typed version of shorthand notes
order code;the portion of a set of operation descriptions that specifies the operation to be performed. the set of operations in a computer
prayer;a fixed text used in praying
sidebar;a short news story presenting sidelights on a major story
toggle;any instruction that works first one way and then the other. it turns something on the first time it is used and then turns it off the next time
backstitch;overlapping stitch made by starting next stitch at middle of preceding one
cross stitch;two stitches forming a cross or x
volume;a publication that is one of a set of several similar publications. 'the third volume was missing'. 'he asked for the 1989 volume of the annual review'
wall painting;a painting that is applied to a wall surface
erasure;correction by erasing
original;an original (audio recording) from which copies can be made
musical octave;a musical interval of eight tones
scroll;a document that can be rolled up (as for storage)
chivaree;a noisy mock serenade (made by banging pans and kettles) to a newly married couple
speeding ticket;a ticket issued for driving above the speed limit
agrapha;sayings of jesus not recorded in the canonical gospels
scene;a consecutive series of pictures that constitutes a unit of action in a film
guide;something that offers basic information or instruction
epanodos;repetition or recapitulation in reverse order
operetta;a short amusing opera
hiss;a cry or noise made to express displeasure or contempt
liberty chit;a permit to enter or leave a military installation. 'he had to show his pass in order to get out'
labor contract;contract between labor and management government wages and benefits and working conditions
lead story;a news story of major importance
lead;a news story of major importance
chanson de geste;old french epic poems
previous question;a motion calling for an immediate vote on the main question under discussion by a deliberative assembly
relief printing;printing from a plate with raised characters
sigh;an utterance made by exhaling audibly
review copy;a copy of a newly published book that is sent for review to a writer or periodical
snort;a cry or noise made to express displeasure or contempt
xerox;a copy made by the xerox process
peace;a treaty to cease hostilities. 'peace came on november 11th'
ethnic music;the traditional and typically anonymous music that is an expression of the life of people in a community
monthly;a periodical that is published every month
anticlimax;a change from a serious subject to a disappointing one
gossiping;a conversation that spreads personal information about other people
hieroglyph;a writing system using picture symbols. used in ancient egypt
te deum;an ancient liturgical hymn
descant;a decorative accompaniment (often improvised) added above a basic melody
overcasting;a long whip stitch or overhand stitch overlying an edge to prevent raveling
travel guidebook;a guidebook for travelers
squiggle;an illegible scrawl
organ;a periodical that is published by a special interest group. 'the organ of the communist party'
binary notation;any notation that uses 2 characters (usually 0 and 1)
leading tone;(music) the seventh note of the diatonic scale
lettre de cachet;french history: the king could warrant imprisonment or death in a signed letter under his seal
liquor license;a license authorizing the holder to sell alcoholic beverages
translation;rewording something in less technical terminology
source;a document (or organization) from which information is obtained. 'the reporter had two sources for the story'
tax return;document giving the tax collector information about the taxpayer's tax liability. 'his gross income was enough that he had to file a tax return'
arrest warrant;a warrant to apprehend an offender
closing;the last section of a communication. 'in conclusion i want to say...'
gather;small folds or puckers made by pulling tight a thread in a line of stitching
screaming;sharp piercing cry
nagari script;a syllabic script used in writing sanskrit and hindi
modeling;a sculpture produced by molding
electroencephalogram;a graphical record of electrical activity of the brain. produced by an electroencephalograph
positional notation;a numeration system in which a real number is represented by an ordered set of characters where the value of a character depends on its position
antiphony;alternate (responsive) singing by a choir in two parts
scratch sheet;a racing publication giving information on horses
season ticket;a ticket good for several trips or to attend a season of entertainments. sold at a reduced rate
variation;a repetition of a musical theme in which it is modified or embellished
quadruplicate;any of four things that correspond to one another exactly
choreography;a notation used by choreographers
gothic romance;a romance that deals with desolate and mysterious and grotesque events
zero coupon security;a security that makes no interest payments but instead is sold at a deep discount from its face value
show card;a poster advertising a show or play
whole tone;a musical interval of two semitones
octal number system;a positional system of numeration that uses octal digits and a radix of 8
proxy;a power of attorney document given by shareholders of a corporation authorizing a specific vote on their behalf at a corporate meeting
motto;a favorite saying of a sect or political group
revisal;the act of rewriting something
digest;a periodical that summarizes the news
projection;the representation of a figure or solid on a plane as it would look from a particular direction
model;a representation of something (sometimes on a smaller scale)
sewing machine stitch;made by a sewing machine using two threads
voice;the melody carried by a particular voice or instrument in polyphonic music. 'he tried to sing the tenor part'
spectacle;an elaborate and remarkable display on a lavish scale
grimoire;a manual of black magic (for invoking spirits and demons)
critical review;an essay or article that gives a critical evaluation (as of a book or play)
official document;a document that states some contractual relationship or grants some right
christmas card;a card expressing a christmas greeting
self adapting program;a program that can change its performance in response to its environment
aerogram;a letter sent by air mail
treble clef;a clef that puts the g above middle c on the second line of a staff
riff;a jazz ostinato. usually provides a background for a solo improvisation
sketch;preliminary drawing for later elaboration. 'he made several studies before starting to paint'
mosaic;assembly of aerial photographs forming a composite picture
science fiction;literary fantasy involving the imagined impact of science on society
dialog;a literary composition in the form of a conversation between two people. 'he has read plato's dialogues in the original greek'
cyclic redundancy check;an error correction code that is recorded in each sector of a magnetic disk and used to catch errors in the data
dissertation;a treatise advancing a new point of view resulting from research. usually a requirement for an advanced academic degree
scenery;the painted structures of a stage set that are intended to suggest a particular locale. 'they worked all night painting the scenery'
vermiculation;a decoration consisting of wormlike carvings
fake book;an imitation book. used to fill bookcases of people who wish to appear scholarly
triple spacing;typing that leaves two lines blank between lines of typing
promptbook;the copy of the playscript used by the prompter
shot;an informal photograph. usually made with a small hand-held camera. 'my snapshots haven't been developed yet'. 'he tried to get unposed shots of his friends'
enjoining;(law) a judicial remedy issued in order to prohibit a party from doing or continuing to do a certain activity
fieri facias;a writ ordering a levy on the belongings of a debtor to satisfy the debt
bass part;the lowest part in polyphonic music
love lyric;the lyric of a lovesong
machine code;a set of instructions coded so that the computer can use it directly without further translation
conclusion;the last section of a communication. 'in conclusion i want to say...'
script;a written version of a play or other dramatic composition. used in preparing for a performance
school text;a book prepared for use in schools or colleges. 'his economics textbook is in its tenth edition'
theater of the absurd;plays stressing the irrational or illogical aspects of life, usually to show that modern life is pointless. 'samuel beckett and eugene ionesco have written plays for the theater of the absurd'
samba;music composed for dancing the samba
proscription;a decree that prohibits something
plainsong;a liturgical chant of the roman catholic church
geneva convention;an agreement concerning the treatment of war prisoners
double entendre;an ambiguity with one interpretation that is indelicate
photograph album;an album for photographs
ms;the form of a literary work submitted for publication
accent;distinctive manner of oral expression. 'he couldn't suppress his contemptuous accent'. 'she had a very clear speech pattern'
elegiac stanza;a quatrain in iambic pentameter with abab rhyme scheme
area code;a number usually of 3 digits assigned to a telephone area as in the us and canada
air letter;a letter sent by air mail
fine art;the products of human creativity. works of art collectively
spiritual bouquet;a card indicating that the sender will perform certain devotional acts on behalf of another (roman catholic church)
letters of marque;a license to a private citizen to seize property of another nation
argument;a summary of the subject or plot of a literary work or play or movie. 'the editor added the argument to the poem'
teaser;a flat at each side of the stage to prevent the audience from seeing into the wings
gape;an expression of open-mouthed astonishment
scream;sharp piercing cry
cryptograph;a secret method of writing
tone poem;an orchestral composition based on literature or folk tales
correspondence;communication by the exchange of letters
farmer s calendar;an annual publication including weather forecasts and other miscellaneous information arranged according to the calendar of a given year
code;(computer science) the symbolic arrangement of data or instructions in a computer program or the set of such instructions
carol;joyful religious song celebrating the birth of christ
american revised version;a revised version of the king james version
sign;a character indicating a relation between quantities. 'don't forget the minus sign'
rasp;uttering in an irritated tone
holdout;a refusal by a negotiator to come to terms in the hope of obtaining a better deal
saga;an narrative telling the adventures of a hero or a family. originally (12th to 14th centuries) a story of the families that settled iceland and their descendants but now any prose narrative that resembles such an account
fascicle;an installment of a printed work
round table conference;a meeting of peers for discussion and exchange of views. 'a roundtable on the future of computing'
venire facias;a judicial writ ordering a sheriff to summon people for jury duty
cuss;profane or obscene expression usually of surprise or anger
manakin;a life-size dummy used to display clothes
pictorial;a periodical (magazine or newspaper) containing many pictures
c compiler;a compiler for programs written in c
lament;a song or hymn of mourning composed or performed as a memorial to a dead person
organization chart;a chart showing the lines of responsibility between departments of a large organization
sketch;short descriptive summary (of events)
foreword;a short introductory essay preceding the text of a book
pretrial;(law) a conference held before the trial begins to bring the parties together to outline discovery proceedings and to define the issues to be tried. more useful in civil than in criminal cases
error correction code;(computer science) a coding system that incorporates extra parity bits in order to detect errors
relief map;a map having contour lines through points of equal elevation
linear b;a syllabic script used in greece in the 13th century b.c.
postal code;a code of letters and digits added to a postal address to aid in the sorting of mail
accounting;a statement of recent transactions and the resulting balance. 'they send me an accounting every month'
melodic theme;melodic subject of a musical composition. 'the theme is announced in the first measures'. 'the accompanist picked up the idea and elaborated it'
frame;one of a series of still transparent photographs on a strip of film used in making movies
quintette;a musical composition for five performers
belling;a noisy mock serenade (made by banging pans and kettles) to a newly married couple
spoken language;communication by word of mouth. 'his speech was slurred'. 'he uttered harsh language'. 'he recorded the language of the streets'
pardon;a warrant granting release from punishment for an offense
bill;a sign posted in a public place as an advertisement. 'a poster advertised the coming attractions'
sama veda;a collection of mantras and tunes for use with the rig-veda
serenade;a song characteristically played outside the house of a woman
abecedarius;a poem having lines beginning with letters of the alphabet in regular order
radical;a sign placed in front of an expression to denote that a root is to be extracted
holograph;handwritten book or document
dialog;the lines spoken by characters in drama or fiction
montage;picture made by sticking together pieces of paper or photographs
book;an accounting book as a physical object: 'he bought a new daybook'
deed of trust;a written instrument legally conveying property to a trustee often used to secure an obligation such as a mortgage or promissory note
blank verse;unrhymed verse (usually in iambic pentameter)
cross stitch;embroidery done in cross-stitch
earnings report;a financial statement that gives operating results for a specific period
double spacing;typing that leaves alternate lines blank
groan;an utterance expressing pain or disapproval
engine block;a metal casting containing the cylinders and cooling ducts of an engine. 'the engine had to be replaced because the block was cracked'
ecg;a graphical record of the cardiac cycle produced by an electrocardiograph
tent stitch;a small diagonal needlepoint stitch
still life;a painting of inanimate objects such as fruit or flowers
kol nidre;the opening prayer on the eve of yom kippur
occupation license;a license to pursue a particular occupation
photo;a picture of a person or scene in the form of a print or transparent slide. recorded by a camera on light-sensitive material
interval;the difference in pitch between two notes
scene;a subdivision of an act of a play. 'the first act has three scenes'
public law;a law affecting the public at large
monologue;speech you make to yourself
nothings;inconsequential conversation. 'they traded a few nothings as they parted'
put option;the option to sell a given stock (or stock index or commodity future) at a given price before a given date
remake;something that is made again or anew. 'it is a remake of an old film'
bolero;music written in the rhythm of the bolero dance
viola clef;a clef that puts middle c on the third line of a staff
argot;a characteristic language of a particular group (as among thieves). 'they don't speak our lingo'
system program;a program (as an operating system or compiler or utility program) that controls some aspect of the operation of a computer
document;writing that provides information (especially information of an official nature)
correction;something substituted for an error
leitmotiv;a melodic phrase that accompanies the reappearance of a person or situation (as in wagner's operas)
decimal numeration system;a positional system of numeration that uses decimal digits and a radix of 10
conformal projection;a map projection in which a small area is rendered in its true shape
tra la la;a set of nonsensical syllables used while humming a refrain
bar code;code of a series of vertical bars printed on consumer product packages indicating price etc
epilog;a short speech (often in verse) addressed directly to the audience by an actor at the end of a play
scrip;a certificate whose value is recognized by the payer and payee. scrip is not currency but may be convertible into currency
unveiling;putting on display for the first time
canticle of simeon;the prayer of simeon. luke 2:29-32
capsule;a shortened version of a written work
lexicon;a reference book containing an alphabetical list of words with information about them
insurance;written contract or certificate of insurance. 'you should have read the small print on your policy'
appoggiatura;an embellishing note usually written in smaller size
periodical;a publication that appears at fixed intervals
os;(computer science) software that controls the execution of computer programs and may provide various services
literary review;a review devoted to literary criticism
process;a writ issued by authority of law. usually compels the defendant's attendance in a civil suit. failure to appear results in a default judgment against the defendant
baedeker;any of a series of travel guidebooks published by the german firm founded by karl baedeker
refrain;the part of a song where a soloist is joined by a group of singers
photocopy;a photographic reproduction of written or printed or graphic work
curriculum vitae;a summary of your academic and work history
railroad ticket;a ticket good for a ride on a railroad train
spectrograph;a photographic record of a spectrum
bowing;bending the head or body or knee as a sign of reverence or submission or shame
software;(computer science) written programs or procedures or rules and associated documentation pertaining to the operation of a computer system and that are stored in read/write memory
signature;the sharps or flats that follow the clef and indicate the key
service book;a book setting forth the forms of church service
mailing card;a card for sending messages by post without an envelope
afterpiece;a brief dramatic piece (usually comic) presented after a play
ave maria;a salutation to the virgin mary now used in prayers to her
psalm;any sacred song used to praise the deity
recap;a summary that repeats the substance of a longer discussion
single spacing;typing that does not leave lines blank
bawdy;lewd or obscene talk or writing. ' it was smoking-room bawdry' or 'they published a collection of elizabethan bawdy'
billet doux;a personal letter to a loved one expressing affection
chant;a repetitive song in which as many syllables as necessary are assigned to a single tone
ikon;a conventional religious picture painted in oil on a small wooden panel. venerated in the eastern church
haiku;an epigrammatic japanese verse form of three short lines
screeching;sharp piercing cry
gospel according to matthew;one of the gospels in the new testament. includes the sermon on the mount
statement;a document showing credits and debits
strain;a succession of notes forming a distinctive sequence. 'she was humming an air from beethoven'
building permit;a document authorizing the holder to construct a building of a particular kind on a particular lot
salt i;the first treaty between the us and ussr resulting from the strategic arms limitation talks
minor scale;a diatonic scale with notes separated by whole tones except for the 2nd and 3rd and 5th and 6th
basting;loose temporary stitches
degree of a polynomial;the degree of the term in the polynomial that has the highest degree
shirttail;a brief addendum at the end of a newspaper article
shakespearean sonnet;a sonnet consisting three quatrains and a concluding couplet in iambic pentameter with the rhyme pattern abab cdcd efef gg
listed security;a security that has been accepted for trading by one of the organized and registered securities exchanges in the us
diction;the articulation of speech regarded from the point of view of its intelligibility to the audience
blue note;a flattened third or seventh
arioso;(music) a short recitative that is melodic but is not an aria
somniloquism;uttering speech while asleep
textual matter;the words of something written. 'there were more than a thousand words of text'. 'they handed out the printed text of the mayor's speech'. 'he wants to reconstruct the original text'
wing flat;scenery situated in the wings
avesta;sacred text of zoroastrianism
imperial decree;a decree issued by a sovereign ruler
thriller;a suspenseful adventure story
guidebook;something that offers basic information or instruction
chortle;a soft partly suppressed laugh
synopsis;a summary of the main points of an argument or theory
gossip;light informal conversation for social occasions
summing up;a concluding summary (as in presenting a case before a law court)
course catalog;a catalog listing the courses offered by a college or university
rephrasing;changing a particular word or phrase
read;something that is read. 'the article was a very good read'
capitalization;writing in capital letters
acts of the apostles;a book of the new testament
diaglyph;a sunken or depressed engraving or carving
work papers;a legal document giving information required for employment
symphonic music;a long and complex sonata for symphony orchestra
graphic art;the arts of drawing or painting or printmaking
puppet;a small figure of a person operated from above with strings by a puppeteer
house organ;a periodical published by a business firm for its employees and customers
barcarolle;a boating song sung by venetian gondoliers
bank check;a written order directing a bank to pay money. 'he paid all his bills by check'
diary;a daily written record of (usually personal) experiences and observations
ragnarok;myth about the ultimate destruction of the gods in a battle with evil
body language;communication via the movements or attitudes of the body
written communication;"communication by means of written symbols"
musical scale;a series of notes differing in pitch according to a specific scheme (usually within an octave)
archives;collection of records especially about an institution
clamor;loud and persistent outcry from many people. 'he ignored the clamor of the crowd'
dope sheet;a racing publication giving information on horses
projection;the projection of an image from a film onto a screen
flip chart;a chart with several sheets hinged at the top. sheets can be flipped over to present information sequentially
cuneiform;an ancient wedge-shaped script used in mesopotamia and persia
representation;a visual or tangible rendering of someone or something
french knot;made by looping the thread several times around the needle before inserting it into the fabric
bar chart;a chart with bars whose lengths are proportional to quantities
magnum opus;a great work of art or literature
collective bargaining;negotiation between an employer and trade union
judges;a book of the old testament that tells the history of israel under the leaders known as judges
directory;an alphabetical list of names and addresses
zero coupon bond;the commonest form of zero-coupon security
print;a printed picture produced from a photographic negative
cashier s cheque;a check issued by the officer of a bank on the banks own account (not that of a private person). 'cashier's checks are as good as cash'
douay version;an english translation of the vulgate by roman catholic scholars
measure;notation for a repeating pattern of musical beats. written followed by a vertical bar
writing system;a method of representing the sounds of a language by written or printed symbols
review;an essay or article that gives a critical evaluation (as of a book or play)
album;a book of blank pages with pockets or envelopes. for organizing photographs or stamp collections etc
writ of election;a writ ordering the holding of an election
ballet;music written for a ballet
litany;a prayer consisting of a series of invocations by the priest with responses from the congregation
teacher s certificate;a certificate saying that the holder is qualified to teach in the public schools
noncallable bond;a bond containing a provision that the holder cannot redeem the security before a specific date (usually at maturity)
personal check;a check drawn against funds deposited in your personal checking account
proof;a trial print from a negative
part;the melody carried by a particular voice or instrument in polyphonic music. 'he tried to sing the tenor part'
otc security;a security traded in the over-the-counter market
frequency response;(electronics) a graph of frequency response with signal amplitude or gain plotted against frequency
coloring book;a book with line drawings intended to be colored with crayons by children
leitmotif;a melodic phrase that accompanies the reappearance of a person or situation (as in wagner's operas)
cookery book;a book of recipes and cooking directions
hypertext system;a database management system that allows chunks of text (objects) to be processed as a complex network of nodes that are linked together in an arbitrary way
woodcut;a print made from a woodcut
index;a mathematical notation indicating the number of times a quantity is multiplied by itself
bargaining;the negotiation of the terms of a transaction or agreement
continuity;a detailed script used in making a film in order to avoid discontinuities from shot to shot
mandamus;an extraordinary writ commanding an official to perform a ministerial act that the law recognizes as an absolute duty and not a matter for the official's discretion. used only when all other judicial remedies fail
zend avesta;sacred text of zoroastrianism
form;a life-size dummy used to display clothes
new criticism;literary criticism based on close analysis of the text
polytonalism;music that uses two or more different keys at the same time
horatian ode;an ode with several stanzas
plan;scale drawing of a structure. 'the plans for city hall were on file'
image;a visual representation of an object or scene or person produced on a surface. 'they showed us the pictures of their wedding'. 'a movie is a series of images projected so rapidly that the eye integrates them'
encephalogram;a graphical record of electrical activity of the brain. produced by an electroencephalograph
baby talk;an adult's imitation of the speech of a young child
planetarium;an apparatus or model for representing the solar systems
almanac;an annual publication including weather forecasts and other miscellaneous information arranged according to the calendar of a given year
phone bill;statement of charges for telephone service
system error;an instruction that is either not recognized by an operating system or is in violation of the procedural rules
supervisory program;a program that controls the execution of other programs
credential;a document attesting to the truth of certain stated facts
round trip ticket;a ticket to a place and back (usually over the same route)
plea bargaining;(criminal law) a negotiation in which the defendant agrees to enter a plea of guilty to a lesser charge and the prosecutor agrees to drop a more serious charge
estimation;a document appraising the value of something (as for insurance or taxation)
stop payment;a depositor's order to a bank to refuse payment on a check
samhita;any of the hindu sacred writing
vernacular;a characteristic language of a particular group (as among thieves). 'they don't speak our lingo'
graph;a drawing illustrating the relations between certain quantities plotted with reference to a set of axes
upanishad;later sacred texts of hinduism dealing with broad philosophical questions
installment;a part of a published serial
command;(computer science) a line of code written as part of a computer program
demisemiquaver;a musical note having the time value of a thirty-second of a whole note
parenthesis free notation;a notation for forming mathematical expressions that does not use parentheses to delimit components
output program;a utility program that organizes the output of a computer
picture;a visual representation of an object or scene or person produced on a surface. 'they showed us the pictures of their wedding'. 'a movie is a series of images projected so rapidly that the eye integrates them'
process printing;a method of printing colored reproductions from halftone plates
essay;an analytic or interpretive literary composition
ditty;a short simple song (or the words of a poem intended to be sung)
phrase;a short musical passage two to four measures long
tachogram;a graphical record of speed and distance produced by a tachograph
florilegium;an anthology of short literary pieces and poems and ballads etc.
motion;the use of movements (especially of the hands) to communicate familiar or prearranged signals
portrayal;any likeness of a person. 'the photographer made excellent portraits'
executive routine;a routine that coordinates the operation of subroutines
adaptation;a written work (as a novel) that has been recast in a new form: 'the play is an adaptation of a short novel'
volume;a book as a physical object: a number of pages bound together. 'he used a large book as a doorstop'
backcloth;scenery hung at back of stage
wedding license;a license authorizing a man and a woman to marry
editorial;an article giving opinions or perspectives
writ of prohibition;a judicial writ from a higher court ordering a lower court not to exercise jurisdiction in a particular case
growling;a gruff or angry utterance (suggestive of the growling of an animal)
hemstitching;parallel threads are drawn and exposed threads are caught together in groups
prescription;written instructions from a physician or dentist to a druggist concerning the form and dosage of a drug to be issued to a given patient
obligato;a part of the score that must be performed without change or omission
snarl;an angry vicious expression
etching;an impression made from an etched plate
chitchat;light informal conversation for social occasions
quitclaim deed;document transferring title or right or claim to another
bilingual dictionary;a dictionary giving equivalent words in two languages
mercator s projection;a map projection of the earth onto a cylinder. areas appear greater the farther they are from the equator
melody;a succession of notes forming a distinctive sequence. 'she was humming an air from beethoven'
mock up;a full-scale working model of something built for study or testing or display
magnificat;the canticle of the virgin mary (from luke 1:46 beginning 'magnificat anima mea dominum')
koran;sacred writings of islam
musical composition;a musical work that has been created. 'the composition is written in four movements'
treasury bond;a debt instrument with maturities of 10 years or longer
scolion;a song (sometimes improvised) sung by guests at a banquet
exodus;the second book of the old testament: tells of the departure of the israelites out of slavery in egypt led by moses. god gave them the ten commandments and the rest of mosaic law on mount sinai during the exodus
log;the exponent required to produce a given number
output routine;a routine that controls an output device
waltz;music composed in triple time for waltzing
operation code;the portion of a set of operation descriptions that specifies the operation to be performed. the set of operations in a computer
largo;a movement that is to be performed in a slow and broad manner
dialogue;the lines spoken by characters in drama or fiction
fanfare;a short lively tune played on brass instruments. 'he entered to a flourish of trumpets'. 'her arrival was greeted with a rousing fanfare'
ikon;a visual representation of an object or scene or person produced on a surface. 'they showed us the pictures of their wedding'. 'a movie is a series of images projected so rapidly that the eye integrates them'
grin;a facial expression characterized by turning up the corners of the mouth. usually shows pleasure or amusement
program;a document stating the aims and principles of a political party. 'their candidate simply ignored the party platform'. 'they won the election even though they offered no positive program'
ha ha;a loud laugh that sounds like a horse neighing
resolution;a formal expression by a meeting. agreed to by a vote
idiom;an expression whose meanings cannot be inferred from the meanings of the words that make it up
written material;reading matter. anything expressed in letters of the alphabet (especially when considered from the point of view of style and effect). 'the writing in her novels is excellent'
solmisation;a system of naming the notes of a musical scale by syllables instead of letters
epilog;a short passage added at the end of a literary work. 'the epilogue told what eventually happened to the main characters'
compatible software;application software programs that share common conventions so they can be utilized together
subpoena ad testificandum;a writ issued by court authority to compel the attendance of a witness at a judicial proceeding. disobedience may be punishable as a contempt of court
study;preliminary drawing for later elaboration. 'he made several studies before starting to paint'
barcarole;a boating song sung by venetian gondoliers
word;the sacred writings of the christian religion. 'he went to carry the word to the heathen'
pen and ink;a drawing executed with pen and ink
septet;a musical composition written for seven performers
presentation;the act of making something publicly available. presenting news or other information by broadcasting or printing it. 'he prepared his presentation carefully in advance'
salaam;a deep bow. a muslim form of salutation
bas relief;a relief in which forms extend only slightly from the background
localism;a phrase or pronunciation that is peculiar to a particular locality
textbook;a book prepared for use in schools or colleges. 'his economics textbook is in its tenth edition'
proprietorship certificate;a certificate showing who is responsible in an individually owned business
artificial flower;a handmade imitation of a blossom
systems software;a program (as an operating system or compiler or utility program) that controls some aspect of the operation of a computer
video;the visible part of a television transmission. 'they could still receive the sound but the picture was gone'
ostentation;a showy outward display
epic poem;a long narrative poem telling of a hero's deeds
criticism;a written evaluation of a work of literature
deed of conveyance;a legal document signed and sealed and delivered to effect a transfer of property and to show the legal right to possess it. 'he signed the deed'. 'he kept the title to his car in the glove compartment'
chain stitch;a crochet stitch
paperback;a book with paper covers
text;a passage from the bible that is used as the subject of a sermon. 'the preacher chose a text from psalms to introduce his sermon'
pastoral;a letter from a pastor to the congregation
sequel;a part added to a book or play that continues and extends it
sonata;a musical composition of 3 or 4 movements of contrasting forms
key;any of 24 major or minor diatonic scales that provide the tonal framework for a piece of music
chemical notation;a notation used by chemists to express technical facts in chemistry
sursum corda;(roman catholic church) a latin versicle meaning 'lift up your hearts'
ottava rima;a stanza of eight lines of heroic verse with the rhyme scheme abababcc
thorough bass;a bass part written out in full and accompanied by figures for successive chords
throughput;the amount passing through a system from input to output (especially of a computer program over a period of time)
smiling;a facial expression characterized by turning up the corners of the mouth. usually shows pleasure or amusement
wave;the act of signaling by a movement of the hand
gros point;needlepoint stitch covering two horizontal and two vertical threads
pentatonic scale;a gapped scale with five notes
evening prayer;(anglican church) a daily evening service with prayers prescribed in the book of common prayer
expression;a word or phrase that particular people use in particular situations. 'pardon the expression'
action;the series of events that form a plot. 'his novels always have a lot of action'
manuscript;handwritten book or document
letter of intent;any letter expressing an intention to take (or forgo) some action
map;a diagrammatic representation of the earth's surface (or part of it)applies function to the first element of each sequence, then the second element of each, and so on until the end of the shortest sequence is reached. the results of the function calls are collected in a sequence of type result-type. if the result-type is nil, the results are not collected and nil is returned.
telephotograph;a photograph made with a telephoto lens
photomontage;a montage that uses photographic images
knitting stitch;a stitch taken in knitting
antiphony;a verse or song to be chanted or sung in response
unlisted stock;stock that is not listed and traded on an organized exchange
cry;a slogan used to rally support for a cause. 'a cry to arms'
phonebook;a directory containing an alphabetical list of telephone subscribers and their telephone numbers
distribution agreement;a contract governing the marketing of an item of merchandise
homophony;part music with one dominant voice (in a homophonic style)
needlework;an article created or assembled by needle and thread
muniments;deeds and other documentary evidence of title to land
gesture;the use of movements (especially of the hands) to communicate familiar or prearranged signals
memoir;an essay on a scientific or scholarly topic
testament;either of the two main parts of the christian bible
basso relievo;a relief in which the figures project only slightly from the surrounding plane surface. no figures are undercut
object oriented database management system;a database management system designed to manage an object-oriented database
binary code;code using a string of 8 binary digits to represent characters
alphabetic writing;a writing system based on alphabetic characters
scandalmongering;spreading malicious gossip
money order;a written order for the payment of a sum to a named individual. obtainable and payable at a post office
salic law;the code of laws of the salian franks and other german tribes
conditional contract;a contract whose performance depends on a fact or event that affects legal relations
convertible;a corporate security (usually bonds or preferred stock) that can be exchanged for another form of security (usually common stock)
convention;(diplomacy) an international agreement
saw;a condensed but memorable saying embodying some important fact of experience that is taken as true by many people
ground plan;a floor plan for the ground level of a building
trompe l oeil;a painting rendered in such great detail as to deceive the viewer concerning its reality
pedal;a sustained bass note
fig;a diagram or picture illustrating textual material. 'the area covered can be seen from figure 2'
lithograph;a print produced by lithography
order book;a book in which customers' orders are entered. usually makes multiple copies of the order
genre;a class of artistic endeavor having a characteristic form or technique
mode;any of various fixed orders of the various diatonic notes within an octave
brief;a document stating the facts and points of law of a client's case
firmware;(computer science) coded instructions that are stored permanently in read-only memory
passing tone;a nonharmonic note inserted for transition between harmonic notes
limning;a drawing of the outlines of forms or objects
shivaree;a noisy mock serenade (made by banging pans and kettles) to a newly married couple
star spangled banner;the national anthem of the us
snowman;a figure of a person made of packed snow
spelling;forming words with letters according to the principles underlying accepted usage
maxim;a saying that widely accepted on its own merits
moan;an utterance expressing pain or disapproval
dramatic work;a play for performance on the stage or television or in a movie etc.
display;something done in order to communicate a particular impression. 'made a display of strength'. 'a show of impatience'. 'a good show of looking interested'
heroic stanza;a quatrain written in elevated style. the rhyme scheme is abab
wooden horse;a large hollow wooden figure of a horse (filled with greek soldiers) left by the greeks outside troy during the trojan war
dollar diplomacy;diplomacy influenced by economic considerations
anaglyph;moving or still pictures in contrasting colors that appear three-dimensional when superimposed
overcast;a long whip stitch or overhand stitch overlying an edge to prevent raveling
radiogram;a photographic image produced on a radiosensitive surface by radiation other than visible light (especially by x-rays or gamma rays)
folder;a small book usually having a paper cover
idiolect;the language or speech of one individual at a particular period in life
facsimile;an exact copy or reproduction
legal separation;a judicial decree regulating the rights and responsibilities of a married couple living apart
conic projection;a projection of the globe onto a cone with its point over one of the earth's poles
disquisition;an elaborate analytical or explanatory essay or discussion
sham;something false. not what it seems to be
tenor clef;a clef that puts middle c on the fourth line of the staff. used for writing music for bassoons or cellos or tenor horns
partsong;a song with two or more voice parts
instrument;a document that states some contractual relationship or grants some right
junk bond;a (speculative) bond with a credit rating of bb or lower. issued for leveraged buyouts and other takeovers by companies with questionable credit
yellow dog contract;a now-illegal labor contract whereby the employee agrees not to join a trade union
soft cover;a book with paper covers
eye chart;a chart that is read from a fixed distance. used as a test of vision
mandate;a document giving an official instruction or command
the book of mormon;revealed to joseph smith in 1830 by an ancient prophet mormon. supposedly a record of ancient peoples of america translated by joseph smith
political program;a document stating the aims and principles of a political party. 'their candidate simply ignored the party platform'. 'they won the election even though they offered no positive program'
baby talk;the developing speech of a young child
architectural plan;scale drawing of a structure. 'the plans for city hall were on file'
parking ticket;a ticket issued for parking in a restricted place
mould;a sculpture produced by molding
babylonian;the ideographic and syllabic writing system in which the ancient babylonian language was written
special session;a session that is held in addition to the regular sessions
check;the bill in a restaurant. 'he asked the waiter for the check'
star chart;a chart showing the relative positions of the stars in a particular part of the sky
deuteronomy;the fifth book of the old testament. contains a second statement of mosaic law
function call;a call that passes control to a subroutine. after the subroutine is executed control returns to the next instruction in main program
put;the option to sell a given stock (or stock index or commodity future) at a given price before a given date
fasiculus;an installment of a printed work
photograph;a picture of a person or scene in the form of a print or transparent slide. recorded by a camera on light-sensitive material
bestiary;a medieval book (usually illustrated) with allegorical and amusing descriptions of real and fabled animals
excerpt;a passage selected from a larger work. 'he presented exerpts from william james' philosophical writings'
utterance;sounds uttered for auditory communication
database management system;a software system that facilitates the creation and maintenance and use of an electronic database
lettercard;a postcard that folds so the message is inside
tablature;a musical notation indicating the fingering to be used
tome;a (usually) large and scholarly book
fantasy;fiction with a large amount of fantasy in it. 'she made a lot of money writing romantic fantasies'
odyssey;a greek epic poem (attributed to homer) describing the journey of odysseus after the fall of troy
lord s prayer;the prayer that christ gave his disciples in the sermon on the mount (matthew 6:9-13)
enigmatic canon;a canon in which the entrances of successive parts were indicated by cryptic symbols and devices (popular in the 15th and 16th centuries)
shake;a note that alternates rapidly with another note a semitone above it
dividend warrant;an order of payment (such as a check payable to a shareholder) in which a dividend is paid
catechism;an elementary book summarizing the principles of a christian religion. written as questions and answers
octet;a musical composition written for eight performers
release;a legal document evidencing the discharge of a debt or obligation
theatrical poster;a poster advertising a show or play
new english bible;a modern english version of the bible and apocrypha
reusable routine;a routine that can be loaded once and executed repeatedly
degree of a term;the sum of the exponents of the variables in the term
microsoft disk operating system;an operating system developed by microsoft for ibm computers
medley;a musical composition consisting of a series of songs or other musical pieces from various sources
bas relief;a relief in which the figures project only slightly from the surrounding plane surface. no figures are undercut
variorum edition;an edition containing various versions of a text or notes by various scholars or editors
speaking;the utterance of intelligible speech
buttonhole stitch;reinforcing looped stitch for edges, as around a buttonhole
population profile;a chart showing the number of people as a function of their ages
motif;a theme that is elaborated on in a piece of music
rescript;something that has been written again. 'the rewrite was much better'
torch song;a popular song concerned with disappointment in love
writing;(usually plural) the collected work of an author. 'the idea occurs with increasing frequency in hemingway's writings'
requiem;a song or hymn of mourning composed or performed as a memorial to a dead person
statement;(computer science) a line of code written as part of a computer program
belly laugh;a burst of deep loud hearty laughter
by product;made during the manufacture of something else
airmail letter;a letter sent by air mail
acquisition agreement;contract governing the merger of two or more companies
gem;something highly prized for its beauty or perfection
output;what is produced in a given time period
code;a coding system used for transmitting messages requiring brevity or secrecy
speech pattern;distinctive manner of oral expression. 'he couldn't suppress his contemptuous accent'. 'she had a very clear speech pattern'
screech;sharp piercing cry
shrieking;sharp piercing cry
compatible software;software that can run on different computers without modification
rider;a clause that is appended to a legislative bill
feature;a special or prominent article in a newspaper or magazine. 'they ran a feature on retirement planning'
inclosure;something (usually a supporting document) that is enclosed in an envelope with a covering letter
heck;a euphemism for 'hell'. 'oh what the heck'
working papers;a legal document giving information required for employment
carbon copy;a copy made with carbon paper
icon;a visual representation of an object or scene or person produced on a surface. 'they showed us the pictures of their wedding'. 'a movie is a series of images projected so rapidly that the eye integrates them'
frown;a facial expression of dislike or displeasure
preface;a short introductory essay preceding the text of a book
score;a written form of a musical composition. parts for different instruments appear on separate staves on large pages. 'he studied the score of the sonata'
government security;a security issued by us government agencies or the federal land bank
stenography;a method of writing rapidly
equals sign;a sign indicating that the quantities on either side are equal
postmortem;discussion of an event after it has occurred
object program;a fully compiled or assembled program ready to be loaded into the computer
lead in;the introductory section of a story. 'it was an amusing lead-in to a very serious matter'
country and western;a simple style of folk music heard in the southern us. usually played on stringed instruments
phatic speech;conversational speech used to communicate sociability more than information
half length;a portrait showing the body from only the waist up
whipstitch;a stitch passing over an edge diagonally
assignment;the instrument by which a claim or right or interest or property is transferred from one person to another
debenture bond;a bond that is backed by the credit of the issuer but not by any specific collateral
language;the text of a popular song or musical-comedy number. 'his compositions always started with the lyrics'. 'he wrote both words and music'. 'the song uses colloquial language'
monody;music consisting of a single vocal part (usually with accompaniment)
jargon;a characteristic language of a particular group (as among thieves). 'they don't speak our lingo'
commercial document;a document of or relating to commerce
half cross stitch;a single stitch at a diagonal
semitone;the musical interval between adjacent keys on a keyboard instrument
judicial writ;a legal document issued by a court or judicial officer
scenario;an outline or synopsis of a play
color code;system using colors to designate classifications
written language;"communication by means of written symbols"
aquatint;an etching made by a process that makes it resemble a water color
monochrome;a black-and-white photograph or slide
production;a presentation for the stage or screen or radio or television. 'have you seen the new production of hamlet?'
citation;a summons that commands the appearance of a party at a proceeding
judicial separation;a judicial decree regulating the rights and responsibilities of a married couple living apart
idea;melodic subject of a musical composition. 'the theme is announced in the first measures'. 'the accompanist picked up the idea and elaborated it'
sewing;an article made by sewing. 'she put her sewing back in the basket'
end product;things produced
polka;music performed for dancing the polka
stitch;a link or loop or knot made by drawing a threaded needle through a fabric
anaglyph;anything carved in low relief
clamoring;loud and persistent outcry from many people. 'he ignored the clamor of the crowd'
arabic;an alphabetic script used to write the arabic dialects (and borrowed to write urdu)
unix;a powerful operating system developed at the bell telephone laboratories
double stitch;a crochet stitch
roundtable;a meeting of peers for discussion and exchange of views. 'a roundtable on the future of computing'
banning order;an order that bans something
computer aided design;software used in art and architecture and engineering and manufacturing to assist in precision drawing
labor agreement;contract between labor and management government wages and benefits and working conditions
device driver;(computer science) a program that determines how a computer will communicate with a peripheral device
course catalogue;a catalog listing the courses offered by a college or university
theater ticket;a ticket good for admission to a theater
block;a metal casting containing the cylinders and cooling ducts of an engine. 'the engine had to be replaced because the block was cracked'
postfix notation;a parenthesis-free notation for forming mathematical expressions in which each operator follows its operands
arietta;a short aria
flat;a wooden frame covered with painted canvas. part of a stage setting
divestiture;an order to an offending party to rid itself of property. it has the purpose of depriving the defendant of the gains of wrongful behavior. 'the court found divestiture to be necessary in preventing a monopoly'
canon;a contrapuntal piece of music in which a melody in one part is imitated exactly in other parts
supertonic;(music) the second note of a diatonic scale
ballad;a narrative poem of popular origin
sheepskin;a document certifying the successful completion of a course of study
picture postcard;a postcard with a picture on one side
handiwork;a work produced by hand labor
wince;the facial expression of sudden pain
article;nonfictional prose forming an independent part of a publication
rejoicing;the utterance of sounds expressing great joy
work;something produced or accomplished through the effort or activity or agency of a person or thing: 'it is not regarded as one of his more memorable works'. 'the symphony was hailed as an ingenious work'. 'he was indebted to the pioneering work of john dewey'. 'the work of an active imagination'. 'erosion is the work of wind or water over time'
close;the last section of a communication. 'in conclusion i want to say...'
woodwork;work made of wood. especially moldings or stairways or furniture
transcription;something written, esp. copied from one medium to another, as a typed version of shorthand notes
desk dictionary;an abridged dictionary of a size convenient to hold in the hand
postal order;a written order for the payment of a sum to a named individual. obtainable and payable at a post office
word of god;the message of the gospel of christ
cameo;engraving or carving in relief
jeremiah;a book in the old testament containing the oracles of the prophet jeremiah
stock index futures;a futures contract based on a stock index. a bet on the future price of the indexed group of stocks
postcard;a card for sending messages by post without an envelope
constitution of the united states;the constitution written at the constitutional convention in philadelphia in 1787 and subsequently ratified by the original thirteen states
half relief;a sculptural relief between low relief and high relief
rough drawing;a preliminary sketch of a design or picture
roman a clef;a novel in which actual persons and events are disguised as fictional characters
linear a;an undeciphered writing system used in crete in the 17th century b.c.
job control;a program that is called to prepare each job to be run
affrication;the conversion of a simple stop consonant into an affricate
overvaluation;an appraisal that is too high
casting;object formed by a mold
negotiation;a discussion intended to produce an agreement. 'the buyout negotiation lasted several days'
infix notation;a notation for forming mathematical expressions using parentheses and governed by rules of operator precedence. operators are dispersed among the operands
yell;a loud utterance. often in protest or opposition. 'the speaker was interrupted by loud cries from the rear of the audience'
postmodernism;art and literature and especially architecture in reaction against principles and practices of established modernism
leatherwork;work made of leather
source materials;publications from which information is obtained
fable;a story about mythical or supernatural beings or events
engraving;a print made from an engraving
stop loss order;an order to a broker to sell (buy) when the price of a security falls (rises) to a designated level
summarization;writing that presents the main points in a concise form
poem;a composition written in metrical feet forming rhythmical lines
homophony;the same pronunciation for words of different origins
end matter;written matter following the main text of a book
keen;(irish) a funeral lament sung with loud wailing
press conference;a conference at which press and tv reporters ask questions of a politician or other celebrity
weekly;a periodical that is published every week
ululation;a long loud emotional utterance. 'he gave a howl of pain'. 'howls of laughter'. 'their howling had no effect'
baste;loose temporary stitches
color circle;a chart in which complementary colors (or their names) are arranged on opposite sides of a circle
peroration;(rhetoric) the concluding section of an oration. 'he summarized his main points in his peroration'
material;written material (especially in books or magazines). 'he always took some reading matter with him on the plane'
cylinder block;a metal casting containing the cylinders and cooling ducts of an engine. 'the engine had to be replaced because the block was cracked'
discussion;an exchange of views on some topic. 'we had a good discussion'. 'we had a word or two about it'
moue;a disdainful pouting grimace
rondeau;a french verse form of 10 or 13 lines running on two rhymes. the opening phrase is repeated as the refrain of the second and third stanzas
toy;a copy that reproduces something in greatly reduced size
frequency response curve;(electronics) a graph of frequency response with signal amplitude or gain plotted against frequency
limerick;a humorous verse form of 5 anapestic lines with a rhyme scheme aabba
hymn;a song of praise (to god or to a saint or to a nation)
twelve tone music;a type of serial music introduced by arnold schoenberg. uses a tone row formed by the twelve semitones of the chromatic scale (and inverted or backward versions of the row)
basso relievo;a relief in which forms extend only slightly from the background
mediation;negotiation to resolve differences conducted by some impartial party
nontextual matter;photographs or other visual representations in a printed publication
primitivism;a style characteristic of a primitive artist
coup de theatre;a highly successful theatrical production
power;a mathematical notation indicating the number of times a quantity is multiplied by itself
collage;picture made by sticking together pieces of paper or photographs
sitting;a session as of a legislature or court
reading;written material intended to be read. 'the teacher assigned new readings'
conspectus;an overall summary
programme;(computer science) a sequence of instructions that a computer can interpret and execute. 'the program required several hundred lines of code'
canto;a major division of a long poem
book of common prayer;the anglican service book of the church of england. has had several revisions since the reformation and is widely admired for the dignity and beauty of its language
fortran compiler;a compiler for programs written in fortran
shorthand;a method of writing rapidly
toccata;a baroque musical composition (usually for a keyboard instrument) with full chords and rapid elaborate runs in a rhythmically free style
diplomacy;negotiation between nations
writ;a legal document issued by a court or judicial officer
appointment calendar;a book containing a calendar and space to keep a record of appointments
anatomical;an expression that relates to anatomy
exposure;a picture of a person or scene in the form of a print or transparent slide. recorded by a camera on light-sensitive material
ukase;an edict of the russian tsar
prelude;music that precedes a fugue or introduces an act in an opera
reference;a publication (or a passage from a publication) that is referred to. 'he carried an armful of references back to his desk'. 'he spent hours looking for the source of that quotation'
decimal number system;a positional system of numeration that uses decimal digits and a radix of 10
work song;a usually rhythmical song song to accompany repetitious work
myth;a traditional story accepted as history. serves to explain the world view of a people
softback;a book with paper covers
orthography;a method of representing the sounds of a language by written or printed symbols
duologue;a part of the script in which the speaking roles are limited to two actors
watercolor;a work produced with watercolors
reflection;the image of something as reflected by a mirror (or other reflective material). 'he studied his reflection inthe mirror'
overture;orchestral music played at the begining of an opera or oratorio
synonym finder;a book of synonyms
appraisal;a document appraising the value of something (as for insurance or taxation)
grinning;a facial expression characterized by turning up the corners of the mouth. usually shows pleasure or amusement
bond;an interest-bearing (or discounted) certificate of debt issued by a government or corporation in order to raise money
ideography;the use of ideograms in writing
pedal point;a sustained bass note
v sign;a sign (for victory). making a v with the index and middle fingers
replica;something that has been replicated
atlas;a collection of maps in book form
overestimate;an appraisal that is too high
rasping;uttering in an irritated tone
summons;a writ issued by authority of law. usually compels the defendant's attendance in a civil suit. failure to appear results in a default judgment against the defendant
antiphonal;bound collection of antiphons
muster call;a call of the names of personnel at a military assembly
fresco;a mural done with watercolors on wet plaster
sign;a gesture that is part of a sign language
statement;(music) the presentation of a musical theme. 'the initial statement of the sonata'
indenture;formal agreement between the issuer of bonds and the bondholders as to terms of the debt
clay sculpture;a sculpture produced by molding
declaration of independence;the document recording the proclamation of the 2nd american continental congress (4 july 1776) asserting the independence of the colonies from great britain
debugger;a program that helps in locating and correcting programming errors
output contract;a contract in which you promise to deliver your entire output to the other party who promises to accept it
fiction;a literary work based on the imagination and not necessarily on fact
stereoscopic picture;two photographs taken from slightly different angles that appear three-dimensional when viewed together
basketball clinic;a meeting at which basketball players receive special evaluation and instruction
routine;a set sequence of steps, part of larger computer program
rosetta stone;an inscription of a black basalt stone. gave first clue to decipherment of egyptian hieroglyphics
offset lithography;offset printing by lithography
return;document giving the tax collector information about the taxpayer's tax liability. 'his gross income was enough that he had to file a tax return'
notice;a sign posted in a public place as an advertisement. 'a poster advertised the coming attractions'
recasting;changing a particular word or phrase
musical theater;a play or film whose action and dialogue is interspersed with singing and dancing
paso doble;music in march time composed for dancing the paso doble. often played a bull fights
mold;a sculpture produced by molding
injunction;(law) a judicial remedy issued in order to prohibit a party from doing or continuing to do a certain activity
religious music;music composed for performance as part of religious ceremonies
jus civile;the legal code of ancient rome. codified under justinian. the basis for many modern systems of civil law
design;a preliminary sketch indicating the plan for something. 'the design of a building'
browser;a program used to view html documents
closed couplet;a rhymed couplet that forms a complete syntactic unit
plaint;a cry of sorrow and grief. 'their pitiful laments could be heard throughout the ward'
commutation ticket;a ticket good for several trips or to attend a season of entertainments. sold at a reduced rate
phonograph album;an album for holding phonograph records
strategic arms limitation talks;negotiations between the us and the ussr opened in 1969 in helsinki designed to limit both countries' stock of nuclear weapons
lacquerware;a decorative work made of wood and covered with lacquer and often inlaid with ivory or precious metals
expletive;a word or phrase conveying no independent meaning but added to fill out a sentence or metrical line
popular music;music having wide appeal (but usually only for a short time)
adhesion contract;a contract that heavily restricts one party while leaving the other free (as some standard form printed contracts). implies inequality in bargaining power
degree;the highest power of a term or variable
commission;an official document issued by a government and conferring on the recipient the rank of an officer in the armed forces
potpourri;a musical composition consisting of a series of songs or other musical pieces from various sources
sforzando;(music) a notation written above a note and indicating that it is to be played with a strong initial attack
intaglio printing;printing from a plate with depressed characters
codex;an unbound manuscript of some ancient classic
musical drama;opera in which the musical and dramatic elements are equally important. the music is appropriate to the action
portrait;any likeness of a person. 'the photographer made excellent portraits'
atharva veda;a collection of mantras and formulas
yearbook;a reference book that is published regularly once every year
stage set;the scenery and other properties used to identify the location of a dramatic production. 'the sets were meticulously authentic'
alcaic verse;verse in the meter used in greek and latin poetry consisting of strophes of 4 tetrametric lines. reputedly invented by alcaeus
symbolic representation;letters or symbols written or imprinted on a surface. 'he turned the paper over so the writing wouldn't show'. 'the doctor's writing was illegible'
t bill;a short-term noninterest-bearing obligation that can be traded on a discount basis for 91 days
glyptics;the art of engraving on precious stones
illustration;a visual representation (a picture or diagram) that is used make some subject more pleasing or easier to understand
enigmatical canon;a canon in which the entrances of successive parts were indicated by cryptic symbols and devices (popular in the 15th and 16th centuries)
clause;a separate section of a legal document (as a statute or contract or will)
viewing;the display of motion picture
demo;a visual presentation showing how something works. 'the lecture was accompanied by dramatic demonstrations'
haggle;an instance of intense bargaining
ticket book;a book of tickets that can be torn out and used
musical mode;any of various fixed orders of the various diatonic notes within an octave
mortgage deed;deed embodying a mortgage
battle cry;a slogan used to rally support for a cause. 'a cry to arms'
epic;a long narrative poem telling of a hero's deeds
chit;the bill in a restaurant. 'he asked the waiter for the check'
tushery;writing of poor quality. characterized by affected choice of archaic words
sixty fourth note;a musical note having the time value of a sixty-fourth of a whole note
running stitch;small even hand stitches run in and out
analecta;a collection of excerpts from a literary work
color wheel;a chart in which complementary colors (or their names) are arranged on opposite sides of a circle
hemstitch;parallel threads are drawn and exposed threads are caught together in groups
composition;art and technique of printing with movable type
joinery;fine woodwork done by a joiner
version;a written work (as a novel) that has been recast in a new form: 'the play is an adaptation of a short novel'
hymnbook;a songbook containing a collection of hymns
exhibitionism;extravagant and conspicuous behavior intended to attract attention to yourself
half note;a musical note having the time value of half a whole note
flaunting;the act of displaying something ostentatiously. 'his behavior was an outrageous flaunt'
choral;a stately protestant (especially lutheran) hymn tune
bagatelle;a light piece of music for piano
c clef;a movable clef that puts middle c on one of the lines of a staff
handbook;a concise reference book providing specific information about a subject or location
sight draft;a draft payable on presentation
over the counter security;a security traded in the over-the-counter market
application form;a form to use when making an application
mosaic;design made of small pieces of colored stone or glass
new edition;a publication (such as a book) that has been modified or updated and offered again for sale
holy scripture;the sacred writings of the christian religion. 'he went to carry the word to the heathen'
utility revenue bond;a bond issued to finance the construction of public utility services
new latin utopia;a book by sir thomas more (1516) describing the perfect society on an imaginary island
telephotograph;a photograph transmitted and reproduced by telephotography
cradlesong;a quiet song intended to lull a child to sleep
epitome;a brief abstract (as of an article or book)
expletive;profane or obscene expression usually of surprise or anger
writing;letters or symbols written or imprinted on a surface. 'he turned the paper over so the writing wouldn't show'. 'the doctor's writing was illegible'
syllabary;a writing system whose characters represent syllables
shout;a loud utterance. often in protest or opposition. 'the speaker was interrupted by loud cries from the rear of the audience'
lay figure;an artist's jointed model of the human body
input routine;a routine that writes from an external source to an internal store
veda;any of the hindu sacred writing
nunc dimittis;the prayer of simeon. luke 2:29-32
glyph;a symbolic figure carved or incised in relief
literary composition;imaginative or creative writing
polytonality;music that uses two or more different keys at the same time
partnership certificate;a certificate showing the interests of all parties in a business partnership
loop;a computer program that performs a series of instructions repeatedly until some specified condition is satisfied
phrase book;a book containing common expressions in a foreign language along with their translations
photostat;a photocopy made on a photostat machine
instructions;a manual usually accompanying a technical device and explaining how to install or operate it
roughcast;a rough preliminary model
tete a tete;a private conversation between two people
step;a musical interval of two semitones
revise;the act of rewriting something
gab;light informal conversation for social occasions
picture book;a book consisting chiefly of pictures
relocatable program;a program that can be located in different parts of memory at different times
closed session;a session (usually of a legislative body) that is closed to the public
harmonization;a piece of harmonized music
curse word;profane or obscene expression usually of surprise or anger
church mode;any of a system of modes used in gregorian chants up until 1600. derived historically from the greek mode
confirmation hearing;a hearing held by the u.s. senate to gather information on which to approve or reject candidates for high federal office that are nominated by the president
licensing agreement;contract giving someone the legal right to use a patent or trademark
objet d art;an object of some artistic value
annals;reports of the work of a society or learned body etc
pronunciation;the manner of uttering a word
program;(computer science) a sequence of instructions that a computer can interpret and execute. 'the program required several hundred lines of code'
giggle;a foolish or nervous laugh
insurance policy;written contract or certificate of insurance. 'you should have read the small print on your policy'
game license;a license authorizing the bearer to kill a certain type of animal during a specified period of time
doggerel verse;a comic verse of irregular measure. 'he had heard some silly doggerel that kept running through his mind'
bullfight;a spanish or portuguese or latin american spectacle. a matador baits and (usually) kills a bull in an arena before many spectators
pop;music of general appeal to young people
byword;a condensed but memorable saying embodying some important fact of experience that is taken as true by many people
profanity;vulgar or irreverent speech or action
garland;an anthology of short literary pieces and poems and ballads etc.
rumba;syncopated music in duple time for dancing the rumba
secret code;a secret method of writing
bar graph;a chart with bars whose lengths are proportional to quantities
joss;a chinese god worshipped in the form of an idol
telephone book;a directory containing an alphabetical list of telephone subscribers and their telephone numbers
policy;written contract or certificate of insurance. 'you should have read the small print on your policy'
sestet;a rhythmic group of six lines of verse
knit;created by interlacing yarn in a series of connected loops using straight eyeless needles or by machine
well;an abundant source. 'she was a well of information'
round table;a meeting of peers for discussion and exchange of views. 'a roundtable on the future of computing'
production;the amount of an artifact that has been produced by someone or some process. 'they improve their product every year'. 'they export most of their agricultural production'
opera bouffe;opera with a happy ending and in which some of the text is spoken
slang;informal language consisting of words and expressions that are not considered appropriate for formal occasions. often vituperative or vulgar. 'their speech was full of slang expressions'
reel;music composed for dancing a reel
ostinato;a musical phrase repeated over and over during a composition
printing process;reproduction by applying ink to paper as for publication
diatonic scale;a scale with eight notes in an octave. all but two are separated by whole tones
map projection;a projection of the globe onto a flat map using a grid of lines of latitude and longitude
histogram;a bar chart representing a frequency distribution. heights of the bars represent observed frequencies
solmization;a system of naming the notes of a musical scale by syllables instead of letters
discant;a decorative accompaniment (often improvised) added above a basic melody
rondo;a musical form that is often the last movement of a sonata
deed poll;a deed made and executed by only one party
treasurer s check;a check issued by the officer of a bank on the banks own account (not that of a private person). 'cashier's checks are as good as cash'
cosmography;a representation of the earth or the heavens. 'the cosmography of ptolemy'
finale;the closing section of a musical composition
fancywork;decorative needlework
teleconferencing;a conference of people who are in different locations that is made possible by the use of such telecommunications equipment as closed-circuit television
apocrypha;14 books of the old testament included in the vulgate but omitted in jewish and protestant versions of the bible
joint resolution;(u.s.) a resolution passed by both houses of congress which becomes legally binding when signed by the chief executive (or passed over the executive's veto)
carbon process;a process of printing on paper coated with bichromated gelatin containing pigment
light opera;a short amusing opera
navigational chart;a chart for a navigator showing the prevailing meteorological and hydrographic and navigational conditions
service program;(computer science) a program designed for general support of the processes of a computer. 'a computer system provides utility programs to perform the tasks needed by most users'
audiogram;a graphical representation of a person's auditory sensitivity to sound
national anthem;a song formally adopted as the anthem for a nation
horse trading;negotiation accompanied by mutual concessions and shrewd bargaining
function;a set sequence of steps, part of larger computer program
letters patent;an official document granting a right or privilege
literary work;imaginative or creative writing
threnody;a song or hymn of mourning composed or performed as a memorial to a dead person
giro;(british) a check given by the british government to someone who is unemployed. it can be cashed either at a bank or at the post office
verse form;a composition written in metrical feet forming rhythmical lines
rubbing;a copy (as of an engraving) made by laying paper over something and rubbing it with charcoal
obbligato;a part of the score that must be performed without change or omission
binary system;a positional system of numeration that uses binary digits and a radix of 2
pure binary numeration system;a positional system of numeration that uses binary digits and a radix of 2
duologue;a conversation between two persons
sign;"a public display of a (usually written) message. 'he posted signs in all the shop windows'"
round robin;a letter signed by a number of people
binding;strip sewn over or along an edge for reinforcement or decoration
prattle;idle or foolish talk
cashier s check;a check issued by the officer of a bank on the banks own account (not that of a private person). 'cashier's checks are as good as cash'
acquittance;a legal document evidencing the discharge of a debt or obligation
offset;a plate makes an inked impression on a rubber-blanketed cylinder, which in turn transfers it to the paper
riot act;a former english law requiring mobs to disperse after a magistrate reads the law to them
source book;a collection of historically important documents published together as a book
arpeggio;a chord whose notes are played in rapid succession rather than simultaneously
phrase;an expression whose meanings cannot be inferred from the meanings of the words that make it up
system of numeration;any notation for the representation of numbers
picture;the visible part of a television transmission. 'they could still receive the sound but the picture was gone'
half step;the musical interval between adjacent keys on a keyboard instrument
subdivision;a self-contained part of a larger composition. 'he always turns first to the business section'. 'the history of this work is discussed in the next section'
paragraph;one of several distinct subdivisions of a text intended to separate ideas. the beginning is usually marked by a new indented line
catcall;a cry expressing disapproval
wagner;the music of wagner. 'they say that hitler listened only to wagner'
photo offset;a method of offset printing using photomechanical plates
estimate;a document appraising the value of something (as for insurance or taxation)
printing;all the copies of a work printed at one time. 'they ran off an initial printing of 2000 copies'
yell;a loud utterance of emotion (especially when inarticulate). 'a cry of rage'. 'a yell of pain'
analysis;a form of literary criticism in which the structure of a piece of writing is analyzed
cypher;a secret method of writing
tarantella;music composed in six-eight time for dancing the tarantella
song;a short musical composition with words. 'a successful musical must have at least three good songs'
symphony;a long and complex sonata for symphony orchestra
partnership;a contract between two or more persons who agree to pool talent and money and share profits or losses
encyclopedia;a reference work (often in several volumes) containing articles on various topics (often arranged in alphabetical order) dealing with the entire range of human knowledge or with some particular specialty
will;a legal document declaring a person's wishes regarding the disposal of their property when they die
musical time signature;a musical notation indicating the number of beats to a measure and kind of note that takes a beat
x ray;a photograph made by exposing photographic film to x rays. used in medical diagnosis
horselaugh;a loud laugh that sounds like a horse neighing
bar line;a vertical line marking the boundary between musical bars
pretrial conference;(law) a conference held before the trial begins to bring the parties together to outline discovery proceedings and to define the issues to be tried. more useful in civil than in criminal cases
scrape;a deep bow with the foot drawn backwards (indicating excessive humility). 'all that bowing and scraping did not impress him'
articulation;bringing articulatory organs together so as to shape the sounds of speech
schematic drawing;diagram of an electrical or mechanical system
reverse polish notation;a parenthesis-free notation for forming mathematical expressions in which each operator follows its operands
assize;an ancient writ issued by a court of assize to the sheriff for the recovery of property
registered security;a security whose owner's name is recorded on the books of the issuer (or issuer's agent)
cutwork;embroidery in which the design is outlined in a buttonhole stitch and the intervening material is cut away
job;an object worked on. a result produced by working. 'he held the job in his left hand and worked on it with his right'
religious writing;writing that is venerated for the worship of a deity
scene;the graphic or photographic representation of a visual percept. 'he painted scenes from everyday life'. 'figure 2 shows photographic and schematic views of the equipment'
attendance check;a call of students' names in a classroom
alto relievo;a sculptural relief in which more than half of each figure projects out from the surrounding plane surface
pickup;(informal) a warrant to take someone into custody. 'put out a pickup on that man'
shareware;software that has been copyrighted but is sold to users with permission to copy it and give it to others
employment agreement;contract between employer and employee
workbook;a student's book or booklet containing problems with spaces for solving them
envoy;a brief stanza concluding certain forms of poetry
roman law;the legal code of ancient rome. codified under justinian. the basis for many modern systems of civil law
negro spiritual;a kind of religious song originated by blacks in the southern us
plain stitch;a basic knitting stitch
contact print;a print made by exposing a photosensitive surface to direct contact with a photographic negative
skiagraph;a photographic image produced on a radiosensitive surface by radiation other than visible light (especially by x-rays or gamma rays)
line;a succession of notes forming a distinctive sequence. 'she was humming an air from beethoven'
filler;copy to fill space between more important articles in the layout of a magazine or newspaper
reference book;a book to which you can refer for authoritative facts. 'he contributed articles to the basic reference work on that topic'
obscenity;obscene word or phrase
alliance;a formal agreement establishing an association or alliance between nations or other groups to achieve a particular aim
pictorial matter;illustrations used to decorate or explain a text. 'the dictionary had many pictures'
anthem;a song of praise (to god or to a saint or to a nation)
laugh;the sound of laughing
holy writ;the sacred writings of the christian religion. 'he went to carry the word to the heathen'
nod;a sign of assent or salutation or command
silk screen;a print made by forcing ink through a fine (silk) mesh that has been treated to give blank areas
straight face;a serious facial expression giving no evidence of interest or amusement
syncopation;the loss of sounds in the interior of a word (as in 'fo'c'sle' for 'forecastle')
relief;sculpture in which the figures are raised above a surrounding flat plane
power politics;diplomacy in which the nations threaten to use force in order to obtain their objectives
black and white;a black-and-white photograph or slide
call;a loud utterance. often in protest or opposition. 'the speaker was interrupted by loud cries from the rear of the audience'
prologue;an introduction to a play
presentation;a visual representation of something
backup;(computer science) a copy of a file or directory on a separate storage device. 'he made a backup in case the original was accidentally damaged or erased'
hexadecimal number system;a positional system of numeration that uses hexadecimal digits and a radix of 16
plane ticket;a ticket good for a trip on an airplane
dialect atlas;an atlas showing the distribution of distinctive linguistic features
pean;a hymn of praise (especially one sung in ancient greece to invoke or thank a deity)
magna charta;the charter given to english barons by king john in 1215
naked option;a put or call option for which the seller or buyer has no underlying security position
accompaniment;a subordinate musical part. provides background for more important parts
arraignment;a legal document calling someone to court to answer an indictment
roundel;english form of rondeau having three triplets with a refrain after the first and third
writ of detinue;a writ ordering the release of goods that have been unlawfully detained
antiphonary;bound collection of antiphons
purl;a basic knitting stitch
journal;a record book as a physical object
supervisory routine;a routine that coordinates the operation of subroutines
tra la;a set of nonsensical syllables used while humming a refrain
assembler;a program to translate assembly language into computer language
cantata;a musical setting for a religious text
orthomorphic projection;a map projection in which a small area is rendered in its true shape
short letter;a short personal letter. 'drop me a line when you get there'
ecc;(computer science) a coding system that incorporates extra parity bits in order to detect errors
hunting license;a license authorizing the bearer to kill a certain type of animal during a specified period of time
press clipping;an excerpt cut from a newspaper or magazine. 'he searched through piles of letters and clippings'
over the counter stock;stock that is not listed and traded on an organized exchange
landscape;a painting depicting an expanse of natural scenery
conveyance;document effecting a property transfer
country music;a simple style of folk music heard in the southern us. usually played on stringed instruments
visual communication;"communication that relies on vision"
yield;an amount of a product
chain letter;a letter that is sent successively to several people
opera comique;opera with a happy ending and in which some of the text is spoken
phatic communication;conversational speech used to communicate sociability more than information
outline;a summary of the main points of an argument or theory
open account;an unpaid credit order
coronach;a song or hymn of mourning composed or performed as a memorial to a dead person
cryptogram;a piece of writing in code or cipher
pastoral;a musical composition that evokes rural life
place;the passage that is being read. 'he lost his place on the page'
dime novel;a melodramatic paperback novel
cry;a loud utterance. often in protest or opposition. 'the speaker was interrupted by loud cries from the rear of the audience'
market order;an order to a broker to sell or buy stocks or commodities at the prevailing market price
life mask;a cast taken from the face of a living person
book;a major division of a long written composition. 'the book of isaiah'
option;the right to buy or sell property at an agreed price. the right is purchased and if it is not exercised by a stated date the money is forfeited
canon;a collection of books accepted as holy scripture especially the books of the bible recognized by any christian church as genuine and inspired
cry;a fit of weeping. 'had a good cry'
acrostic;verse in which certain letters such as the first in each line form a word or message
intermezzo;a short piece of instrumental music composed for performance between acts of a drama or opera
voucher;a negotiable certificate that can be detached and redeemed as needed
pass;a complementary (free) ticket. 'the start got passes for his family'
poster;a sign posted in a public place as an advertisement. 'a poster advertised the coming attractions'
patch;a short set of commands to correct a bug in a computer program
certificate;a formal declaration that documents a fact of relevance to finance and investment. the holder has a right to receive interest or dividends. 'he held several valuable securities'
coda;the closing section of a musical composition
gavotte;music composed in quadruple time for dancing the gavotte
line drawing;a drawing of the outlines of forms or objects
exclamation;an abrupt excited utterance. 'she gave an exclamation of delight'. 'there was much exclaiming over it'
tailor s tack;loose looped stitches used to transfer marking for darts, etc., from a pattern to material
variorum;an edition containing various versions of a text or notes by various scholars or editors
picture writing;a writing system using pictographs
otc stock;stock that is not listed and traded on an organized exchange
pamphlet;a brief treatise on a subject of interest. published in the form of a booklet
hare krishna;a chant to the hindu god krishna
subpoena;a writ issued by court authority to compel the attendance of a witness at a judicial proceeding. disobedience may be punishable as a contempt of court
treaty;a written agreement between two states or sovereigns
musical phrase;a short musical passage two to four measures long
movement;a major self-contained part of a symphony or sonata. 'the second movement is slow and melodic'
telegraphese;language characterized by terseness and ellipsis as in telegrams
scire facias;a judicial writ based on some record and requiring the party against whom it is brought to show cause why the record should not be enforced or annulled
ms dos;an operating system developed by microsoft for ibm computers
diary;a personal record book (as a physical object)
music;an artistic form of auditory communication incorporating instrumental or vocal tones in a structured and continuous manner
low relief;a relief in which the figures project only slightly from the surrounding plane surface. no figures are undercut
special act;a legislative act that applies only to a particular person or particular district
rewording;changing a particular word or phrase
act;a manifestation of insincerity. 'he put on quite an act for her benefit'
gregorian mode;any of a system of modes used in gregorian chants up until 1600. derived historically from the greek mode
quran;sacred writings of islam
tango;music written in duple time for dancing the tango
patent;a document granting an inventor sole rights to an invention
chain stitch;looped stitch resembling the links of a chain. used in embroidery and in machine stitching
news article;an article reporting news
dirge;a song or hymn of mourning composed or performed as a memorial to a dead person
mug shot;a photograph of someone's face (especially one made for police records)
prate;idle or foolish talk
business letter;a letter dealing with business
novella;a short novel
library routine;a debugged routine that is maintained in a program library
explication de texte;a method of literary criticism that analyzes details of a text in order to reveal its structure and meaning
sharp;a notation indicating one half step higher than the note named
misquotation;an incorrect quotation
photolithography;a planographic printing process using plates made from a photographic image
nomograph;a graphic representation of numerical relations
brochure;a small book usually having a paper cover
utility;(computer science) a program designed for general support of the processes of a computer. 'a computer system provides utility programs to perform the tasks needed by most users'
fable;a short moral story (often with animal characters)
ballad;a narrative song with a recurrent refrain
seventh chord;a triad with a seventh added
complaint;(formerly) a loud cry (or repeated cries) of pain or rage or sorrow
solo;a musical composition for one performer
luke;one of the four gospels in the new testament. contains details of jesus's birth and early life
bank statement;a periodic statement prepared by a bank for each client. 'i wish my bank statement arrived earlier in the month'
electromyogram;a graphical record of electric currents associated with muscular contractions
plain;a basic knitting stitch
morse;a telegraph code in which letters and numbers are represented by strings of dots and dashes (short and long signals)
theme;an essay (especially one written as an assignment). 'he got an a on his composition'
colloquy;a conversation especially a formal one
cipher;a secret method of writing
garter stitch;all rows of knit stitches
high relief;a relief in which forms extend out from the background to at least half their depth
lullaby;a quiet song intended to lull a child to sleep
mediant;(music) the third note of a diatonic scale. midway between the tonic and the dominant
quartertone;half of a semitone
bench warrant;a warrant to apprehend an offender
naumachia;a naval spectacle. a mock sea battle put on by the ancient romans
book of maps;a collection of maps in book form
glyptic art;carvings or engravings (especially on precious stones)
relievo;sculpture in which the figures are raised above a surrounding flat plane
idiom;the usage or vocabulary that is characteristic of a specific group of people. 'the immigrants spoke an odd dialect of english'. 'he has a strong german accent'
triad;a 3-note major or minor chord. a note and its third and fifth tones
telephone conversation;a conversation over the telephone
touch system;typewriting in which the fingers are trained to hit particular keys. typist can read and type at the same time
bottle bill;a statute that would require merchants to reclaim used bottles
heroic verse;a verse form suited to the treatment of heroic or elevated themes. dactylic hexameter or iambic pentameter
statue;a sculpture representing a human or animal
stanza;a fixed number of lines of verse forming a unit of a poem
documentation;program listings or technical manuals describing the operation and use of programs
musical interval;the difference in pitch between two notes
condensation;a shortened version of a written work
order;a legally binding command or decision entered on the court record (as if issued by a court or judge). 'a friend in new mexico said that the order caused no trouble out there'
purchase agreement;a contract stating the terms of a purchase
stations of the cross;a representation of the 14 stages in christ's journey to calvary
octette;a musical composition written for eight performers
quasi contract;a contract created by law for reasons of justice without any expression of assent
articles of incorporation;a document filed with a state by the founders of a corporation
vamp;an improvised accompaniment
uncial;a style of orthography characterized by somewhat rounded capital letters. found especially in greek and latin manuscripts of the 4th to 8th centuries
abridgment;a shortened version of a written work
crochet;something created by interlocking looped stitches with a hooked needle
aphorism;a short pithy instructive saying
post obit bond;a bond made by a reversioner to secure a loan. payable out of his reversion
braille;a point system of writing in which patterns of raised dots represent letters and numerals
elegy;a mournful poem. a lament for the dead
confabulation;an informal conversation
magnification;a photographic print that has been enlarged
bellow;a very loud utterance. 'his bellow filled the hallway'
gotterdammerung;myth about the ultimate destruction of the gods in a battle with evil
epitaph;an inscription on a tombstone or monument in memory of the person buried there
landscape painting;a genre of art dealing with the depiction of natural scenery
love letter;a personal letter to a loved one expressing affection
smile;a facial expression characterized by turning up the corners of the mouth. usually shows pleasure or amusement
investment letter;a letter of intent saying that a letter security is being bought for investment and not for resale. avoids need for sec registration
canvass;an oil painting on canvas
matthew;one of the gospels in the new testament. includes the sermon on the mount
gouache;a work executed with opaque watercolors mixed with gum
warhorse;a work of art (composition or drama) that is part of the standard repertory but has become hackneyed from much repetition
slip stitch;loose stitch catching only a thread or two of fabric, designed to be invisible from the right side
cryptograph;a piece of writing in code or cipher
compact;a signed written agreement between two or more parties (nations) to perform some action
canvas;an oil painting on canvas
mural;a painting that is applied to a wall surface
panorama;a picture (or series of pictures) representing a continuous scene
dead letter;a letter that can neither be delivered nor returned
inset;a small picture inserted within the bounds or a larger one
plot;a chart or map showing the movements or progress of an object
ashcan school;early 20th-century united states painting: realistic and sordid scenes of city life
quaver;a musical note having the time value of an eighth of a whole note
gossipmongering;a conversation that spreads personal information about other people
note;a notation representing the pitch and duration of a musical sound. 'the singer held the note too long'
apercu;a short synopsis
handwork;a work produced by hand labor
order form;a form to use when placing an order
journal;a daily written record of (usually personal) experiences and observations
slide;a transparency mounted in a frame. viewed with a slide projector
love story;a story dealing with love
mahabharatam;(hinduism) a sacred epic sanskrit poem of india dealing in many episodes with the struggle between two rival families
piano sonata;a sonata for piano
segno;(music) a notation written at the beginning or end of a passage that is to be repeated
hieroglyphic;writing that resembles hieroglyphics (usually by being illegible)
letter of mark and reprisal;a license to a private citizen to seize property of another nation
elevation;drawing of an exterior of a structure
sonogram;an image of a structure that is produced by ultrasonography (reflections of high-frequency sound waves). used to observe fetal growth or to study bodily organs
check;a written order directing a bank to pay money. 'he paid all his bills by check'
chatter;noisy talk
harmony;the structure of music with respect to the composition and progression of chords
copy;an imitation or reproduction of an original. 'she made a copy of the designer dress'
debenture;a certificate or voucher acknowledging a debt
hypermedia system;a multimedia system in which related items of information are connected and can be presented together
curse;profane or obscene expression usually of surprise or anger
letter of marque;a license to a private citizen to seize property of another nation
longhand;handwriting in which letters are set down in full and cursively connected within words
swoop;rapid sliding up or down the musical scale. 'the violinist was indulgent with his swoops and slides'
chart;a map designed to assist navigation by air or sea
fugue;a musical form consisting of a theme repeated a fifth above or a fourth below its first statement
paste up;a composition of flat object on a board or other backing. 'they showed him a paste-up of the book jacket'
haw haw;a loud laugh that sounds like a horse neighing
editor;(computer science) a program designed to perform such editorial functions as rearrangement or modification or deletion of data
statute of limitations;a statute prescribing the time period during which legal action can be taken
scarecrow;an object in the shape of a man to frighten birds away from seeds
icon;a conventional religious picture painted in oil on a small wooden panel. venerated in the eastern church
snarl;a vicious angry growl
poor law;a law providing support for the poor
book of knowledge;an elementary encyclopedia dealing with general knowledge
etude;a short composition for a solo instrument. intended as an exercise or to demonstrate technical virtuosity
show bill;a poster advertising a show or play
book;a copy of a written work or composition that has been published (printed on pages bound together). 'i am reading a good book on economics'
treasurer s cheque;a check issued by the officer of a bank on the banks own account (not that of a private person). 'cashier's checks are as good as cash'
contract under seal;a contract that is signed and has the (wax) seal of the signer attached
daguerreotype;a photograph made by an early photographic process. the image was produced on an iodine-sensitized silver plate and developed in mercury vapor
profit and loss account;an account compiled at the end of an accounting period to show gross and net profit or loss
trill;a note that alternates rapidly with another note a semitone above it
oil painting;a picture painted with oil paints
douay rheims bible;an english translation of the vulgate by roman catholic scholars
sixth;the musical interval between one note and another six notes away from it
rictus;a gaping grimace
lukasiewicz notation;a parenthesis-free notation for forming mathematical expressions in which each operator precedes its operands
musical comedy;a play or film whose action and dialogue is interspersed with singing and dancing
novelette;a short novel
italic;a style of handwriting with the letters slanting to the right
revision;something that has been written again. 'the rewrite was much better'
canto;the highest part (usually the melody) in a piece of choral music
rap session;conversation in a situation where feelings can be expressed and criticized or supported
howling;a long loud emotional utterance. 'he gave a howl of pain'. 'howls of laughter'. 'their howling had no effect'
exponential curve;a graph of an exponential function
holla;a very loud utterance. 'his bellow filled the hallway'
death mask;a cast taken from the face of a dead person
ironwork;work made of iron (gratings or rails or railings etc). 'the houses had much ornamental ironwork'
personal cheque;a check drawn against funds deposited in your personal checking account
word;an exchange of views on some topic. 'we had a good discussion'. 'we had a word or two about it'
hue and cry;loud and persistent outcry from many people. 'he ignored the clamor of the crowd'
rheims douay bible;an english translation of the vulgate by roman catholic scholars
quintet;a musical composition for five performers
fixed point notation;a radix numeration system in which the location of the decimal point is fixed by convention
epistle;especially a long, formal letter
drawnwork;ornamental needlework done by drawing threads to form lacelike patterns
jingle;a comic verse of irregular measure. 'he had heard some silly doggerel that kept running through his mind'
brahmana;hindu sacred text instructing the brahmins to perform the vedic rituals
bill of health;a certificate saying that a ship's company was healthy
linocut;a print made from a linocut
sort program;a utility program that sorts data items
phone book;a directory containing an alphabetical list of telephone subscribers and their telephone numbers
ejaculation;an abrupt emphatic exclamation
corporate bond;a bond issued by a corporation. 'a corporate bond is a safer investment than common stock in the same company'
line engraving;a print obtained from a line drawing
trade bill;a statute that would regulate foreign trade
lovesong;a song about love or expressing love for another person
binary number system;a positional system of numeration that uses binary digits and a radix of 2
rondel;a french verse form of 10 or 13 lines running on two rhymes. the opening phrase is repeated as the refrain of the second and third stanzas
tract;a brief treatise on a subject of interest. published in the form of a booklet
resume;short descriptive summary (of events)
front matter;written matter preceding the main text of a book
authority;an authoritative written work. 'this book is the final authority on the life of milton'
italian sonnet;a sonnet consisting of an octave with the rhyme pattern abbaabba, followed by a sestet with the rhyme pattern cdecde or cdcdcd
addendum;textual matter that is added onto a publication. usually at the end
prosodion;religious music used in a procession
set piece;a piece of scenery intended to stand alone as part of the stage setting
articles of agreement;a contract between crew and captain of a ship
penny stock;a stock selling for less that 1/share
fortran program;a program written in fortran
pastoral;a literary work idealizing the rural life (especially the life of shepherds)
foreign bill;a bill of exchange that is drawn in one country and made payable in another
dbms;a software system that facilitates the creation and maintenance and use of an electronic database
inscription;letters inscribed on something
marseillaise;the french national anthem
polish notation;a parenthesis-free notation for forming mathematical expressions in which each operator precedes its operands
return ticket;a ticket to a place and back (usually over the same route)
retroflexion;an articulatory gesture made by turning the tip of the tongue back against the roof of the mouth
stockinette stitch;alternate rows of knit stitches and purl stitches, producing a fabric as for stockings
audio;the audible part of a transmitted signal. 'they always raise the audio for commercials'
systems program;a program (as an operating system or compiler or utility program) that controls some aspect of the operation of a computer
hosanna;a cry of praise or adoration (to god)
roll;a document that can be rolled up (as for storage)
petit point;needlepoint done with small stitches
postcode;a code of letters and digits added to a postal address to aid in the sorting of mail
mathematical notation;a notation used by mathematicians
transfer;a ticket that allows a passenger to change conveyances
screening;the display of motion picture
peace treaty;a treaty to cease hostilities. 'peace came on november 11th'
absentee ballot;a ballot that is cast in absentia
drawing;an illustration that is drawn by hand and published in a book or magazine. 'it is shown by the drawing in fig. 7'
checking program;a program that examines other computer programs for syntax errors
misspelling;a spelling that is incorrect
introduction;a basic or elementary instructional text
crochet stitch;a stitch made by pulling a loop of thread through another loop with a crochet needle
rough breathing;a manner of articulation involving an audible release of breath
telephone directory;a directory containing an alphabetical list of telephone subscribers and their telephone numbers
grand opera;opera in which all the text is sung
toy;a nonfunctional replica of something else (frequently used as a modifier). 'a toy stove'
consuetudinal;a manual describing the customs of a particular group (especially the ceremonial practices of a monastic order)
requiem;a musical setting for a mass celebrating the dead
end;the last section of a communication. 'in conclusion i want to say...'
jotter;a small notebook for rough notes
computer program;(computer science) a sequence of instructions that a computer can interpret and execute. 'the program required several hundred lines of code'
shell stitch;a crochet stitch
coding system;a system of signals used to represent letters or numbers in transmitting messages
oeuvre;the total output of a writer or artist (or a substantial part of it). 'he studied the entire wagnerian oeuvre'. 'picasso's work can be divided into periods'
ban;a decree that prohibits something
ode;a lyric poem with complex stanza forms
vulgate;the latin version of the bible used by roman catholics
summation;a concluding summary (as in presenting a case before a law court)
laws;the first of three divisions of the hebrew scriptures comprising the first five books of the old testament considered as a unit
piece;a musical work that has been created. 'the composition is written in four movements'
sacred text;writing that is venerated for the worship of a deity
wordbook;a reference book containing words (usually with their meanings)
obligation;a legal agreement specifying a payment or action and the penalty for failure to comply
closeup;a photograph taken at close range
snapshot;an informal photograph. usually made with a small hand-held camera. 'my snapshots haven't been developed yet'. 'he tried to get unposed shots of his friends'
bill;a statute in draft before it becomes law. 'they held a public hearing on the bill'
sketch pad;a book containing sheets of paper on which sketches can be drawn
war cry;a slogan used to rally support for a cause. 'a cry to arms'
application program;a program that gives a computer instructions that provide the user with tools to accomplish a task. 'he has tried several different word processing applications'
foil;a positive photograph or drawing on a transparent base. viewed with a projector
legal code;a code of laws adopted by a state or nation: 'a code of laws'
duplication;either of two things that correspond to one another exactly. 'he made a duplicate for the files'
bad cheque;a check that is dishonored on presentation because of insufficient funds. 'issuing a bad check is a form of larceny'
letters of administration;legal document naming someone to administer an estate when no executor has been named
title deed;a legal document proving a person's right to property
charter;a contract to hire or lease transportation
saddle stitch;a decorative overcast or running stitch, especially in a contrasting color
stabile;a sculpture having fixed units constructed of metal and attached to a fixed support
penal code;the legal code governing crimes and their punishment
macumba;popular dance music of brazil. derived from the practices of the macumba religious cult
tie;(music) a slur over two notes of the same pitch. indicates that the note is to be sustained for their combined time value
snellen chart;a printed card displaying letters and numbers in lines of decreasing size. used to test visual acuity
mystery;a story about a crime (usually murder) presented as a novel or play or movie
pastiche;a musical composition consisting of a series of songs or other musical pieces from various sources
offset printing;a plate makes an inked impression on a rubber-blanketed cylinder, which in turn transfers it to the paper
incentive stock option;an option granted to corporate executives if the company achieves certain financial goals
writ of certiorari;a common law writ issued by a superior court to one of inferior jurisdiction demanding the record of a particular case
picot;an edging of small loops, as on lace or ribbon
microdot;a photograph reduced to the size of a dot (usually for purposes of security)
etymological dictionary;a dictionary giving the historical origins of each word
sestet;a musical composition written for six performers
howl;a long loud emotional utterance. 'he gave a howl of pain'. 'howls of laughter'. 'their howling had no effect'
mortgage backed security;a security created when a group of mortgages are gathered together and bonds are sold to other institutions or the public. investors receive a portion of the interest payments on the mortgages as well as the principal payments. usually guaranteed by the government
shadowgraph;a photographic image produced on a radiosensitive surface by radiation other than visible light (especially by x-rays or gamma rays)
gospels;four books in the new testament that tell the story of christ's life and teachings
croaking;a harsh hoarse utterance (as of a frog)
constitution;law determining the fundamental political principles of a government
test copy;(printing) a trial impression made to check for errors
outtake;a scene that is filmed but is not used in the final editing of the film
metalwork;the metal parts of something. 'there were bullet holes in the metalwork'
fingerpost;a guidepost resembling a hand with a pointing index finger
reggae;popular music originating in the west indies. repetitive bass riffs and regular chords played on the off beat by a guitar
figure;a diagram or picture illustrating textual material. 'the area covered can be seen from figure 2'
display;a visual representation of something
longshot;a photograph taken from a distance
lamentation;a cry of sorrow and grief. 'their pitiful laments could be heard throughout the ward'
hex;an evil spell. 'a witch put a curse on his whole family'
applet;a java application. an application program that uses the client's web browser to provide a user interface
letter;a written message addressed to a person or organization. 'wrote an indignant letter to the editor'
appendix;supplementary material that is collected and appended at the back of a book
ekg;a graphical record of the cardiac cycle produced by an electrocardiograph
madrigal;an unaccompanied partsong for 2 or 3 voices. follows a strict poetic form
edition;an issue of a newspaper. 'he read it in yesterday's edition of the times'
positional representation system;a numeration system in which a real number is represented by an ordered set of characters where the value of a character depends on its position
section;a self-contained part of a larger composition. 'he always turns first to the business section'. 'the history of this work is discussed in the next section'
envoi;a brief stanza concluding certain forms of poetry
numeration system;any notation for the representation of numbers
concession;a contract granting the right to operate a subsidiary business: 'he got the beer concession at the ball park'
instrumentation;the instruments called for in a musical score or arrangement for a band or orchestra
justinian code;the legal code of ancient rome. codified under justinian. the basis for many modern systems of civil law
form;a printed document with spaces in which to write. 'he filled out his tax form'
daub;an unskillful painting
joint return;a return filed by a husband and wife
unlisted security;a security traded in the over-the-counter market
performance bond;a bond given to protect the recipient against loss in case the terms of a contract are not filled. a surety company assumes liability for nonperformance
calligraphy;beautiful handwriting
papers;writing that provides information (especially information of an official nature)
monitoring program;a program that observes and regulates and controls or verifies the operations of a data-processing system
compiler;(computer science) a program that decodes instructions written in a higher order language and produces a machine language program
wail;a cry of sorrow and grief. 'their pitiful laments could be heard throughout the ward'
halloo;a shout to attract attention. 'he gave a great halloo but no one heard him'
rescript;the act of rewriting something
suffix notation;a parenthesis-free notation for forming mathematical expressions in which each operator follows its operands
accidental;a notation that makes a note sharp or flat or natural although that is not part of the key signature
order;a commercial document used to request someone to supply something in return for payment. 'ibm received an order for a hundred computers'
lingo;a characteristic language of a particular group (as among thieves). 'they don't speak our lingo'
dies irae;the first words of a medieval latin hymn describing the last judgment (literally 'day of wrath')
hee haw;a loud laugh that sounds like a horse neighing
miniature;a copy that reproduces something in greatly reduced size
majority opinion;the opinion joined by a majority of the court (generally known simply as 'the opinion')
international morse code;a telegraph code in which letters and numbers are represented by strings of dots and dashes (short and long signals)
foundry proof;a proof taken from a form before duplicate plates are made
whole rest;a rest equal in duration to a whole note
x ray photograph;a photograph made by exposing photographic film to x rays. used in medical diagnosis
weather map;a map showing the principal meteorological elements at a given time and over an extended region
patois;a regional dialect of a language (especially french). usually considered substandard
touch typing;typewriting in which the fingers are trained to hit particular keys. typist can read and type at the same time
bearer bond;a bond issued with detachable coupons that must be presented to the issuer for interest payments
parisology;the use of ambiguous words
devise;a will disposing of real property
eeg;a graphical record of electrical activity of the brain. produced by an electroencephalograph
shop talk;talk about your business that only others in the same business can understand
redraft;a draft for the amount of a dishonored draft plus the costs and charges of drafting again
vers libre;unrhymed verse without a consistent metrical pattern
figured bass;a bass part in which the notes have numbers under them to indicate the chords to be played
editor program;(computer science) a program designed to perform such editorial functions as rearrangement or modification or deletion of data
giro cheque;(british) a check given by the british government to someone who is unemployed. it can be cashed either at a bank or at the post office
mail order;a purchase negotiated by mail
joshua;a book in the old testament describing how joshua led the israelites into canaan (the promised land) after the death of moses
plot line;the plot of a book or play or film
g clef;a clef that puts the g above middle c on the second line of a staff
employment contract;contract between employer and employee
breviary;(roman catholic church) a book of prayers to be recited daily certain priests and members of religious orders
sampler;a piece of needlework demonstrating skill with various stitches
stock;a certificate documenting the shareholder's ownership in the corporation. 'the value of his stocks doubled during the past year'
journal;a periodical dedicated to a particular subject. 'he reads the medical journals'
serenade;a musical composition in several movements. has no fixed form
united states constitution;the constitution written at the constitutional convention in philadelphia in 1787 and subsequently ratified by the original thirteen states
supervisory software;specialized programs that reside permanently in the computer's main memory and control the processing of user's programs
story;a piece of fiction that narrates a chain of related events. 'he writes stories for the magazines'
set;the scenery and other properties used to identify the location of a dramatic production. 'the sets were meticulously authentic'
cli;a user interface in which you type commands instead of choosing them from a menu or selecting an icon
deletion;the part that is omitted when an editorial change shortens a written passage. 'an editor's deletions frequently upset young authors'
shooting script;the final detailed script for making a movie or tv program
juggernaut;a crude idol of krishna
arthrogram;an x ray of of a joint after the injection of a contrast medium
blanket stitch;strong reinforcing stitch for edges of blanket and other thick material. similar to buttonhole_stitch
decree nisi;a decree issued on a first petition for divorce. becomes absolute at some later date
wax figure;an effigy (usually of a famous person) made of wax
guffaw;a burst of deep loud hearty laughter
notebook;a book with blank pages for recording notes or memoranda
reproduction;something that has been replicated
sputter;an utterance (of words) with spitting sounds (as in rage)
supplement;textual matter that is added onto a publication. usually at the end
speech production;the utterance of intelligible speech
wash drawing;a watercolor made by applying a series of monochrome washes one over the other
telephone bill;statement of charges for telephone service
patent;an official document granting a right or privilege
collection;a publication containing a variety of works
shucks;an expression of disappointment or irritation
cost plus contract;a contract in which the contractor is paid his total cost plus a stated percentage of profit
spot;a short section or illustration (as between radio or tv programs or in a magazine) that is often used for advertising
screenplay;a script for a film including dialogue and descriptions of characters and sets
viewgraph;a transparency for use with an overhead projector
versicle;a short verse said or sung by a priest or minister in public worship and followed by a response from the congregation
spin off;made during the manufacture of something else
modernism;art and literature that makes a self-conscious break with previous genres
yowl;a very loud utterance. 'his bellow filled the hallway'
potboiler;a literary composition of poor quality that was written quickly to make money (to boil the pot)
counterfeit;a copy that is presented as the original
splurge;an ostentatious display (of effort or extravagance etc.)
portrait;a painting of a person's face
algorism;the arabic (or decimal) system of numeration
illustration;artwork that helps make something clear or attractive
spell;a verbal formula believed to have magical force. 'he whispered a spell as he moved his hands'. 'inscribed around its base is a charm in balinese'
probate;a judicial certificate saying that a will is genuine and conferring on the executors the power to administer the estate
gospel;four books in the new testament that tell the story of christ's life and teachings
parable;(new testament) any of the stories told by jesus to convey his religious message. 'the parable of the prodigal son'
gazetteer;a geographical dictionary (as at the back of an atlas)
composition;an essay (especially one written as an assignment). 'he got an a on his composition'
sacred writing;writing that is venerated for the worship of a deity
powwow;(informal) a quick private conference
slur;(music) a curved line spanning notes that are to be played legato
revision;the act of rewriting something
heroic tale;a story of an adventure
covenant;a signed written agreement between two or more parties (nations) to perform some action
code;a set of rules or principles or laws especially written ones
decimal system;a positional system of numeration that uses decimal digits and a radix of 10
operating statement;a financial statement that gives operating results for a specific period
paraphrase;rewording for the purpose of clarification
trio;a musical composition for three performers
atonalism;the absence of a key. alternative to the diatonic system
master;an original (audio recording) from which copies can be made
requirements contract;a contract in which you agree to purchase all your requirements of a particular sort from one party
zip code;a code of letters and digits added to a postal address to aid in the sorting of mail
manifest;a customs document listing the contents put on a ship or plane
pilot chart;a chart for a navigator showing the prevailing meteorological and hydrographic and navigational conditions
utopia;a book by sir thomas more (1516) describing the perfect society on an imaginary island
product;the amount of an artifact that has been produced by someone or some process. 'they improve their product every year'. 'they export most of their agricultural production'
roman fleuve;a french novel in the form of a long chronicle of a family or other social group
resume;a summary of your academic and work history
trace;something drawn by tracing
verse;a piece of poetry
sobbing;a convulsive gasp made during weeping
musical;a play or film whose action and dialogue is interspersed with singing and dancing
vignette;a small sketch (as sometimes placed at the beginning of chapters in books)
netscape;a commercial browser
submediant;(music) the sixth note of a major or minor scale (or the third below the tonic)
collective agreement;contract between labor and management government wages and benefits and working conditions
glissando;a rapid series of ascending or descending notes on the musical scale
draft;a document ordering the payment of money. drawn by one person or bank on another
estimated tax return;return required of a taxpayer whose tax withheld from income does not meet the tax liability for the year
service routine;a routine that can be used as needed
indenture;a contract binding one party into the service of another for a specified term
body of work;the total output of a writer or artist (or a substantial part of it). 'he studied the entire wagnerian oeuvre'. 'picasso's work can be divided into periods'
authorization;a document giving an official instruction or command
mark;the shortest of the four gospels in the new testament
adagio;a musical composition to be played in adagio tempo (slowly and gracefully)
group discussion;a discussion among participants who have an agreed (serious) topic
fruit;an amount of a product
shriek;sharp piercing cry
screed;a long piece of writing
target program;a fully compiled or assembled program ready to be loaded into the computer
writing;reading matter. anything expressed in letters of the alphabet (especially when considered from the point of view of style and effect). 'the writing in her novels is excellent'
ruth;a book of the old testament that tells the story of ruth who was not an israelite but who married and israelite and who stayed with her mother-in-law naomi after her husband died
tonality;any of 24 major or minor diatonic scales that provide the tonal framework for a piece of music
gregorian chant;a liturgical chant of the roman catholic church
license;a legal document giving official permission to do something
rhumba;syncopated music in duple time for dancing the rumba
tally;a bill for an amount due
translating program;a program that translates one programming language into another
plastic art;the arts of shaping or modeling. carving and sculpture
scrimshaw;an article carved or engraved from whalebone, whale ivory, walrus tusk, etc., usually by american whalers
electrocardiogram;a graphical record of the cardiac cycle produced by an electrocardiograph
triptych;a painting or carving (especially an altarpiece) on three panels (usually hinged together)
boo;a cry or noise made to express displeasure or contempt
tracing routine;a routine that provides a chronological record of the execution of a computer program
critique;an essay or article that gives a critical evaluation (as of a book or play)
war whoop;a yell intended to rally a group of soldiers in battle
call;an instruction that interrupts the program being executed. 'pascal perfroms calls by simply giving the name of the routine to be executed'
minus sign;a sign indicating the operation of subtraction
couplet;a stanza consisting of two successive lines of verse. usually rhymed
word processor;an application that provides the user with tools needed to write and edit and format text and to send it to a printer
ballade;a poem consisting of 3 stanzas and an envoy
concerto;a composition for orchestra and a soloist
dos;an operating system that is on a disk
wrangle;an instance of intense bargaining
tracing;something drawn by tracing
roll call;calling out an official list of names
scratch;poor handwriting
wash;a watercolor made by applying a series of monochrome washes one over the other
heroic couplet;a couplet written in an elevated style
curse;an evil spell. 'a witch put a curse on his whole family'
fire code;set of standards established and enforced by government for fire prevention and safety in case of fire as in fire escapes etc
subdominant;(music) the fourth note of the diatonic scale
needlecraft;an article created or assembled by needle and thread
cutaway drawing;a drawing or model of something in which the outside is omitted to reveal the inner parts
photogravure;printing from an intaglio plate prepared by photographic methods
lithography;a method of planographic printing from a metal or stone surface
battle cry;a yell intended to rally a group of soldiers in battle
credentials;a document attesting to the truth of certain stated facts
hemming stitch;a stitch used in sewing hems on skirts and dresses
claim form;a form to use when filing a claim
lyric;the text of a popular song or musical-comedy number. 'his compositions always started with the lyrics'. 'he wrote both words and music'. 'the song uses colloquial language'
bouffe;opera with a happy ending and in which some of the text is spoken
graphical user interface;a user interface based on graphics (icons and pictures and menus) instead of text. uses a mouse as well as a keyboard as an input device
paper;an essay (especially one written as an assignment). 'he got an a on his composition'
transition;a musical passage moving from one key to another
divertimento;a musical composition in several movements. has no fixed form
patch;sewing that repairs a worn or torn place in a garment
legislative act;an act passed by a legislative body
hollering;a very loud utterance. 'his bellow filled the hallway'
executive session;a session (usually of a legislative body) that is closed to the public
modification;a slightly modified copy. not an exact copy: 'a modification of last year's model'
openwork;ornamental work (such a embroidery or latticework) having a pattern of openings
terza rima;a verse form with a rhyme scheme: aba bcb cdc, etc.
prospectus;a catalog listing the courses offered by a college or university
pastiche;a work of art that imitates the style of some previous work
major diatonic scale;a diatonic scale with notes separated by whole tones except for the 3rd and 4th and 7th and 8th
number representation system;any notation for the representation of numbers
decree;a legally binding command or decision entered on the court record (as if issued by a court or judge). 'a friend in new mexico said that the order caused no trouble out there'
income statement;a financial statement that gives operating results for a specific period
prelims;written matter preceding the main text of a book
autotype;an exact copy or reproduction
horizontal section;a mechanical drawing of an object as if made by a plane cutting through it horizontally
letterset printing;image is transferred from a relief type plate to a roller
opera;a drama set to music. consists of singing with orchestral accompaniment and an orchestral overture and interludes
consultation;a conference (usually with someone important). 'he had a consultation with the judge'. 'he requested an audience with the king'
sorting program;a utility program that sorts data items
photogelation process;a kind of color printing, used for the finest facsimile reproductions of works of art
chorale;a stately protestant (especially lutheran) hymn tune
oath;profane or obscene expression usually of surprise or anger
octave;a musical interval of eight tones
libretto;the words of an opera or musical play
belles lettres;creative writing valued for esthetic content
prolusion;a short introductory essay preceding the text of a book
eighth note;a musical note having the time value of an eighth of a whole note
cutting;an excerpt cut from a newspaper or magazine. 'he searched through piles of letters and clippings'
search warrant;a warrant to search
press cutting;an excerpt cut from a newspaper or magazine. 'he searched through piles of letters and clippings'
power of attorney;a legal instrument authorizing someone to act as the grantor's agent
radical sign;a sign placed in front of an expression to denote that a root is to be extracted
fingerboard;a guidepost resembling a hand with a pointing index finger
idiomatic expression;an expression whose meanings cannot be inferred from the meanings of the words that make it up
curfew;an order that after a specific time certain activities (as being outside on the streets) are prohibited
petrarchan sonnet;a sonnet consisting of an octave with the rhyme pattern abbaabba, followed by a sestet with the rhyme pattern cdecde or cdcdcd
hieratic script;a cursive form of egyptian hieroglyphics. used especially by the priests
document;anything serving as a representation of a person's thinking by means of symbolic marks
songbook;a book containing a collection of songs
genuflection;the act of bending the knees in worship or reverence
twin;a duplicate copy
lay;a narrative song with a recurrent refrain
schematic;diagram of an electrical or mechanical system
word of god;the sacred writings of the christian religion. 'he went to carry the word to the heathen'
masterpiece;the most outstanding piece of work of a creative artist or craftsman
greeting card;a card sent to express personal greetings
laughter;the act of laughing. the manifestation of joy or mirth of scorn. 'he enjoyed the laughter of the crowd'
tormenter;a flat at each side of the stage to prevent the audience from seeing into the wings
gradual;(roman catholic) an antiphon (usually from the book of psalms) immediately after the epistle at mass
mammogram;x-ray film of the soft tissue of the breast
hollo;a very loud utterance. 'his bellow filled the hallway'
keynote;(music) the first note of a diatonic scale
dictation;speech intended for reproduction in writing
fiat;a legally binding command or decision entered on the court record (as if issued by a court or judge). 'a friend in new mexico said that the order caused no trouble out there'
natural logarithm;a logarithm to the base e
machine displayable text;electronic text that is stored and used in the form of a digital image
text;the main body of a written work (as distinct from illustrations or footnotes etc.). 'pictures made the text easier to understand'
sketchblock;a book containing sheets of paper on which sketches can be drawn
enigma canon;a canon in which the entrances of successive parts were indicated by cryptic symbols and devices (popular in the 15th and 16th centuries)
obiter dictum;an opinion voiced by a judge on a point of law not directly bearing on the case in question and therefore not binding
mechanical drawing;scale drawing of a machine or architectural plan etc,
reckoning;a bill for an amount due
antiphon;a verse or song to be chanted or sung in response
boustrophedon;an ancient writing system: having alternate lines written in opposite directions. literally 'as the ox ploughs'
rallying cry;a yell intended to rally a group of soldiers in battle
compilation;something that is compiled (as into a single book or file)
electronic text;text that is in a form that a computer can store and display on a computer screen
preamble;a preliminary introduction to a statute or constitution (usually explaining its purpose)
electric bill;a bill for money owed for electricity used
resolve;a formal expression by a meeting. agreed to by a vote
proof;(printing) a trial impression made to check for errors
musical note;a notation representing the pitch and duration of a musical sound. 'the singer held the note too long'
round hand;a clearly written style of longhand with large round curves
system call;an instruction that interrupts the program being executed and passes control to the supervisor
surprint;something added by overprinting
bird;a cry or noise made to express displeasure or contempt
macro;a single computer instruction that results in a series of instructions in machine language
book of facts;a book to which you can refer for authoritative facts. 'he contributed articles to the basic reference work on that topic'
proverb;a condensed but memorable saying embodying some important fact of experience that is taken as true by many people
abstractionism;an abstract work of art. artistic content depends on internal form rather than pictorial representation
bluster;a swaggering show of courage
dialect;the usage or vocabulary that is characteristic of a specific group of people. 'the immigrants spoke an odd dialect of english'. 'he has a strong german accent'
rig veda;a veda consisting of hindu poems dating from before 2000 bc
pie chart;a circular chart divided into triangular areas proportional to the percentages of the whole
minim;a musical note having the time value of half a whole note
key signature;the sharps or flats that follow the clef and indicate the key
floating point notation;a radix numeration system in which the location of the decimal point is indicated by an exponent of the radix. the floating-point representation of 0.0012 is 0.l2-2 where -2 is the exponent
day return;a return ticket (at reduced fare) for traveling both ways in the same day
deed;a legal document signed and sealed and delivered to effect a transfer of property and to show the legal right to possess it. 'he signed the deed'. 'he kept the title to his car in the glove compartment'
treatise;a formal exposition
dissenting opinion;an opinion that disagrees with the court's disposition of the case
marionette;a small figure of a person operated from above with strings by a puppeteer
hard copy;text that is typed or printed on paper. 'he ran off a hard copy of the report'
pass;a permit to enter or leave a military installation. 'he had to show his pass in order to get out'
stock power;a power of attorney document to transfer ownership of a registered security from the owner to another party
applique;a decorative design made of one material sewn over another
blue law;a statute regulating work on sundays
dialogue;a literary composition in the form of a conversation between two people. 'he has read plato's dialogues in the original greek'
profit and loss;an account compiled at the end of an accounting period to show gross and net profit or loss
collotype printing;a kind of color printing, used for the finest facsimile reproductions of works of art
tacking;loose temporary stitches
idle words;empty or insincere or exaggerated talk. that's a lot of wind'. 'don't give me any of that jazz'
pascal compiler;a compiler for programs written in pascal
shouting;uttering a loud inarticulate cry as of pain or excitement
trade edition;a book intended for general readership
fantasia;a musical composition of a free form usually incorporating several familiar themes
scale;a series of notes differing in pitch according to a specific scheme (usually within an octave)
floor plan;scale drawing of a horizontal section through a building at a given level. contrasts with elevation
deuce;a word used in exclamations of confusion. 'what the devil' or 'the deuce with it' or 'the dickens you say'
futures contract;an agreement to buy or sell a specific amount of a commodity or financial instrument at a particular price on a stipulated future date. the contract can be sold before the settlement date
internationale;a revolutionary socialist anthem
illustration;showing by example
floating policy;an insurance policy covering loss of movable property (e.g. jewelry) regardless of its location
sweet nothings;inconsequential expressions of affection. 'he whispered sweet nothings into her ear'
dictionary;a reference book containing an alphabetical list of words with information about them
carbon;a copy made with carbon paper
scrapbook;a album into which clippings or notes or pictures can be pasted
devanagari;a syllabic script used in writing sanskrit and hindi
spot;a section of an entertainment that is assigned to a specific performer or performance. 'they changed his spot on the progam'
snigger;a disrespectful laugh
title;(usually plural) written material introduced into a movie or tv show to give credits or represent dialogue or explain an action. 'the titles go by faster than i can read'
loan translation;an expression introduced into one language by translating it from another language
passing note;a nonharmonic note inserted for transition between harmonic notes
unix system;a powerful operating system developed at the bell telephone laboratories
theme;melodic subject of a musical composition. 'the theme is announced in the first measures'. 'the accompanist picked up the idea and elaborated it'
gnome;a short pithy saying expressing a general truth
abstract expressionism;a new york genre of painting characterized by freely created abstractions
supervisor call instruction;an instruction that interrupts the program being executed and passes control to the supervisor
digest;something that is compiled (as into a single book or file)
survey;short descriptive summary (of events)
clerihew;a witty satiric verse containing two rhymed couplets and mentioning a famous person
epilogue;a short passage added at the end of a literary work. 'the epilogue told what eventually happened to the main characters'
preview;a screening for a select audience in advance of release for the general public
arbitration clause;a clause in a contract providing for arbitration of disputes arising under the contract
job;a book in the old testament containing job's pleas to god about his afflictions and god's reply
lockstitch;a machine stitch in which the top thread interlocks with the bobbin thread
gathering;small folds or puckers made by pulling tight a thread in a line of stitching
dead sea scrolls;a collection of written scrolls (containing nearly all of the old testament) found in a cave near the dead sea in the late 1940s. 'the dead sea scrolls provide information about judaism and the bible around the time of jesus'
rotogravure;printing by transferring an image from a photogravure plate to a cylinder in a rotary press
sinusoidal projection;an equal-area map projection showing parallels and the equator as straight lines and other meridians as curved. used to map tropical latitudes
semi abstraction;a semi-abstract painting
xerography;an electrostatic printing process
beethoven;the music of beethoven. 'he enjoyed beethoven most of all
stay;a judicial order forbidding some action until an event occurs or the order is lifted. 'the supreme court has the power to stay and injunction pending an appeal to the whole court'
divan;a collection of persian or arabic poems (usually by one author)
epos;a long narrative poem telling of a hero's deeds
effigy;a likeness of a person (especially in the form of sculpture). 'the coin bears an effigy of lincoln'. 'the emperor's tomb had his image carved in stone'
brandish;the act of waving
parable;a short moral story (often with animal characters)
tongue twister;an expression that is difficult to articulate clearly. 'rubber baby buggy bumper' is a tongue twister'
rheims douay version;an english translation of the vulgate by roman catholic scholars
tormentor;a flat at each side of the stage to prevent the audience from seeing into the wings
recitative;a vocal passage of narrative text that a singer delivers with natural rhythms of speech
prohibition;a decree that prohibits something
bill of sale;a deed transferring personal property
ballot;a document listing the alternatives that is used in voting
english sonnet;a sonnet consisting three quatrains and a concluding couplet in iambic pentameter with the rhyme pattern abab cdcd efef gg
valentine;a card sent or given (as to a sweetheart) on saint valentine's day
certified check;a check containing certification that the person who issued the check has sufficient funds on deposit to cover payment
hypermedia;a multimedia system in which related items of information are connected and can be presented together
part music;vocal music for several voices in independent parts (usually performed without accompaniment)
almanac;an annual publication containing tabular information in a particular field or fields arranged according to the calendar of a given year
serial music;20th century music that uses of a definite order of notes as a thematic basis for a musical composition
chart;a visual display of information
musical arrangement;a piece of music that has been adapted for performance by a particular set of voices or instruments
morality play;an allegorical play popular in the 15th and 16th centuries. characters personified virtues and vices
apologue;a short moral story (often with animal characters)
aesop s fables;a collection of fables believed to have been written the greek storyteller aesop
sidebar;(law) a courtroom conference between the lawyers and the judge in a trial that is held out of the jury's hearing
musical notation;a notation used by musicians
brief;a condensed written summary or abstract
drama;a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage. 'he wrote several plays but only one was produced on broadway'
train ticket;a ticket good for a ride on a railroad train
romance;a novel dealing with idealized events remote from everyday life
acting out;(psychiatry) the display of previously inhibited emotions (often in actions rather than words). considered to be healthy and therapeutic
esther;a book of the old testament that tells how esther saved her people from massacre
psalter;a collection of psalms for liturgical use
commonplace book;a notebook in which you enter memorabilia
stock certificate;a certificate documenting the shareholder's ownership in the corporation. 'the value of his stocks doubled during the past year'
chin wagging;light informal conversation for social occasions
commutation;a warrant substituting a lesser punishment for a greater one
frequency response characteristics;(electronics) a graph of frequency response with signal amplitude or gain plotted against frequency
parley;a negotiation between enemies
haggling;an instance of intense bargaining
quarter note;a musical note having the time value of a quarter of a whole note
double crochet;a crochet stitch
miracle play;a medieval play representing episodes from the life of a saint or martyr
weather chart;a map showing the principal meteorological elements at a given time and over an extended region
learner s dictionary;a dictionary specially written for those learning a foreign language
treasuries;negotiable debt obligations of the us government secured by its full faith and credit
word finder;a thesaurus organized to help you find the word you want but cannot think of
god;a material object that is worshipped as a god. 'thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image'. 'money was his god'
graven image;a material object that is worshipped as a god. 'thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image'. 'money was his god'
great charter;the charter given to english barons by king john in 1215
harmonisation;a piece of harmonized music
fourth;the musical interval between one note and another four notes away from it
relievo;shapes carved on a surface so as to stand out from the background
impromptu;a short musical passage that seems to have been made spontaneously without advance preparation
religious text;writing that is venerated for the worship of a deity
card;a rectangular piece of stiff paper used to send messages (may have printed greetings or pictures). 'they sent us a card from miami'
polyphony;music arranged in parts for several voices or instruments
view;the graphic or photographic representation of a visual percept. 'he painted scenes from everyday life'. 'figure 2 shows photographic and schematic views of the equipment'
drawing;a work produced by representing forms or objects on a surface by means of lines. 'he did complicated pen-and-ink drawings like medieval miniatures'
recursive routine;a routine that can call itself
profit and loss statement;a financial statement that gives operating results for a specific period
idle talk;idle or foolish talk
thesis;a treatise advancing a new point of view resulting from research. usually a requirement for an advanced academic degree
paycheck;a check issued in payment of wages or salary
schoolbook;a book prepared for use in schools or colleges. 'his economics textbook is in its tenth edition'
smocking;ornamental needlework on a garment that is made by gathering the cloth tightly in stitches
covered option;a put or call option backed by the shares underlying the option
chanty;a rhythmical work song originally sung by sailors
fascicule;an installment of a printed work
spreadsheet;a screen-oriented interactive program enabling a user to lay out financial data on the screen
signpost;a post bearing a sign that shows the way
amnesty;a warrant granting release from punishment for an offense
conversation;speech used for informal exchange of views
purple passage;a passage full of ornate and flowery language
bill me order;an order that is received without payment. requires billing at a later date
painting;an artistic composition made by applying paints to a surface. 'a small painting by picasso'. 'he bought the painting as an investment'. 'his pictures hang in the louvre'
debate;a discussion in which reasons are advanced for and against some proposition or proposal. 'the argument over foreign aid goes on and on'
superscription;an inscription written above something else
typography;art and technique of printing with movable type
daybook;an accounting book as a physical object: 'he bought a new daybook'
right of first publication;a document granting exclusive right to publish and sell literary or musical or artistic work
background;scenery hung at back of stage
lament;a mournful poem. a lament for the dead
probate will;a judicial certificate saying that a will is genuine and conferring on the executors the power to administer the estate
pindaric ode;an ode form used by pindar. has triple groups of triple units
revelation;revelations of saint john the divine in the new testament
papyrus;a document written on papyrus
roentgenogram;a photograph made by exposing photographic film to x rays. used in medical diagnosis
art;photographs or other visual representations in a printed publication
causerie;light informal conversation for social occasions
apophthegm;a short pithy instructive saying
magna carta;the charter given to english barons by king john in 1215
quotation;a passage or expression that is quoted
postal card;a card for sending messages by post without an envelope
strawman;an object in the shape of a man to frighten birds away from seeds
editing;putting something (as a literary work) into publishable form
duet;a musical composition for two performers
apothegm;a short pithy instructive saying
solfa;a system of solmization using the solfa syllables: do-re-mi-fa-sol-la-ti
leaflet;a small book usually having a paper cover
gambling contract;a contract whose performance by one party is contingent on the outcome of a bet. unenforceable by statute in most jurisdictions
intaglio;a sunken or depressed engraving or carving
golden calf;(old testament) an idol made by aaron for the israelites to worship. destroyed by moses. it is now used to refer to anything worshipped undeservedly
pentateuch;the first of three divisions of the hebrew scriptures comprising the first five books of the old testament considered as a unit
sextette;a musical composition written for six performers
playscript;a written version of a play or other dramatic composition. used in preparing for a performance
alpha software;a first release of a software product that is usually tested only by the developers
radiograph;a photographic image produced on a radiosensitive surface by radiation other than visible light (especially by x-rays or gamma rays)
special contract;a contract that is signed and has the (wax) seal of the signer attached
miscellany;an anthology of short literary pieces and poems and ballads etc.
muckraking;spreading malicious gossip
compendium;a concise but comprehensive summary of a larger work
smirk;a smile expressing smugness or scorn instead of pleasure
deliberation;(usually plural) discussion of all sides of a question. 'the deliberations of the jury'
textual criticism;comparison of a particular text with related materials in order to establish authenticity
ascii;(computer science) american standard code for information interchange. a code for information exchange between computers made by different companies. a string of 7 binary digits represents each character. used in most microcomputers
groupware;software that can be used by a group of people who are working on the same information but may be distributed in space
bank charter;a charter authorizing the operation of a bank
credit order;an order that is received without payment. requires billing at a later date
sketchbook;a book containing sheets of paper on which sketches can be drawn
platform;a document stating the aims and principles of a political party. 'their candidate simply ignored the party platform'. 'they won the election even though they offered no positive program'
charter;a document incorporating an institution and specifying its rights. includes the articles of incorporation and the certificate of incorporation
operating system;(computer science) software that controls the execution of computer programs and may provide various services
purchase contract;a contract stating the terms of a purchase
riddle canon;a canon in which the entrances of successive parts were indicated by cryptic symbols and devices (popular in the 15th and 16th centuries)
epigraph;a quotation at the beginning of some piece of writing
law;one of a set of rules governing a particular activity or a legal document setting forth such a rule. 'there is a law against kidnapping'
sealed instrument;a contract that is signed and has the (wax) seal of the signer attached
american standard version;a revised version of the king james version
appointment book;a book containing a calendar and space to keep a record of appointments
alto clef;a clef that puts middle c on the third line of a staff
salutation;word of greeting used to begin a letter
telephoto;a photograph made with a telephoto lens
mahabharata;(hinduism) a sacred epic sanskrit poem of india dealing in many episodes with the struggle between two rival families
amphibology;an ambiguous grammatical construction. 'they are flying planes'
idyll;a short descriptive poem of rural or pastoral life
arteriogram;an x ray of an artery filled with a contrast medium
dramatic composition;a play for performance on the stage or television or in a movie etc.
theatre ticket;a ticket good for admission to a theater
purl stitch;a basic knitting stitch
text;the words of something written. 'there were more than a thousand words of text'. 'they handed out the printed text of the mayor's speech'. 'he wants to reconstruct the original text'
magic spell;a verbal formula believed to have magical force. 'he whispered a spell as he moved his hands'. 'inscribed around its base is a charm in balinese'
palimpsest;a manuscript (usually written on papyrus or parchment) on which more than one text has been written with the earlier writing incompletely erased and still visible
jump;in films: a transition from one scene to another
session;a meeting for execution of a group's functions. 'it was the opening session of the legislature'
hearing;a session (of a committee or grand jury) in which witnesses are called and testimony is taken. 'the investigative committee will hold hearings in chicago'
lisp compiler;a compiler for programs written in lisp
impression;all the copies of a work printed at one time. 'they ran off an initial printing of 2000 copies'
syllabic script;a writing system whose characters represent syllables
concurring opinion;an opinion that agrees with the court's disposition of the case but is written to express a particular judge's reasoning
blether;idle or foolish talk
natural;a notation cancelling a previous sharp or flat
romance;a story dealing with love
chord;a combination of three or more notes that blend harmoniously when sounded together
coupon bond;a bond issued with detachable coupons that must be presented to the issuer for interest payments
skiffle;(british) a style of popular music in the 1950s. based on american folk music and played on guitars and improvised percussion instruments
abstraction;an abstract painting
aspiration;a manner of articulation involving an audible release of breath
word processing system;an application that provides the user with tools needed to write and edit and format text and to send it to a printer
gospel according to john;the last of the four gospels in the new testament
freeware;software that is provided without charge
executive program;a program that controls the execution of other programs
tutorial;a session of intensive tuition given by a tutor to an individual or to a small number of students
beck;a beckoning gesture
folk ballad;a song that is traditionally sung by the common people of a region and forms part of their culture
lower criticism;the study of existing manuscripts of scriptures to determine the original text
missal;(roman catholic church) a book containing all the prayers and responses needed to celebrate mass throughout the year
picture;an artistic composition made by applying paints to a surface. 'a small painting by picasso'. 'he bought the painting as an investment'. 'his pictures hang in the louvre'
dialogue;a conversation between two persons
reusable program;a program that can be loaded once and executed repeatedly
instruction;(computer science) a line of code written as part of a computer program
silverwork;decorative work made of silver
callithump;a noisy mock serenade (made by banging pans and kettles) to a newly married couple
convertible bond;a bond that can be converted to other securities under certain conditions
planographic printing;the process of printing from a surface on which the printing areas are not raised but are ink-receptive (as opposed to ink repellent)
warrant;an authorization allowing police to perform specified acts
leviticus;the third book of the old testament. contains levitical law and ritual precedents
bach;the music of bach. 'he played bach on the organ'
synthetism;a genre of french painting characterized by bright flat shapes and symbolic treatments of abstract ideas
inspiration;a product of your creative thinking and work. 'he had little respect for the inspirations of other artists'
profile;a graph representing the extent to which something exhibits various characteristics
jazz;empty or insincere or exaggerated talk. that's a lot of wind'. 'don't give me any of that jazz'
phantasy;fiction with a large amount of fantasy in it. 'she made a lot of money writing romantic fantasies'
scripture;any writing that is regarded as sacred by a religious group
musical score;a written form of a musical composition. parts for different instruments appear on separate staves on large pages. 'he studied the score of the sonata'
book review;a critical review of a book (usually a recently published book)
wafture;the act of signaling by a movement of the hand
yelling;uttering a loud inarticulate cry as of pain or excitement
moulding;a sculpture produced by molding
family bible;a large bible with pages to record marriages and births
publication;a printed work offered for distribution
musical theme;melodic subject of a musical composition. 'the theme is announced in the first measures'. 'the accompanist picked up the idea and elaborated it'
reflexion;expression without words. 'tears are an expression of grief'. 'the pulse is a reflection of the heart's condition'
crossfire;a lively or heated interchange of ideas and opinions
wrangling;an instance of intense bargaining
draft;a preliminary sketch of a design or picture
triplicate;any of three things that correspond to one another exactly
statue of liberty;a large monumental statue symbolizing liberty on liberty island in new york harbor
match;an exact duplicate. 'when a match is found an entry is made in the notebook'
separate;a separately printed article that originally appeared in a larger publication
stock option;the right to buy or sell a stock at a specified price within a stated period
naumachy;a naval spectacle. a mock sea battle put on by the ancient romans
quatrain;a stanza of four lines
wind rose;showing the frequency and strength of winds from different directions
map collection;a collection of maps in book form
teleconference;a conference of people who are in different locations that is made possible by the use of such telecommunications equipment as closed-circuit television
tanka;a form of japanese poetry. the 1st and 3rd lines have five syllables and the 2nd, 4th, and 5th have seven syllables
paternoster;(roman catholic) the lord's prayer in latin. translates as 'our father'
phrasal idiom;an expression whose meanings cannot be inferred from the meanings of the words that make it up
capital account;(finance) an account of the net value of a business at a specified date
utility program;(computer science) a program designed for general support of the processes of a computer. 'a computer system provides utility programs to perform the tasks needed by most users'
kitsch;art in pretentious bad taste
contour map;a map having contour lines through points of equal elevation
classical music;music conforming to an established form and appealing to critical interest and developed musical taste
typescript;typewritten matter especially a typewritten copy of a manuscript
homolosine projection;an equal-area map projection of the globe. oceans are distorted in order to minimize the distortion of the continents
source;a publication (or a passage from a publication) that is referred to. 'he carried an armful of references back to his desk'. 'he spent hours looking for the source of that quotation'
boogie woogie;an instrumental version of the blues (especially for piano)
obbligato;a persistent but subordinate motif
relief;shapes carved on a surface so as to stand out from the background
allegory;a short moral story (often with animal characters)
twilight of the gods;myth about the ultimate destruction of the gods in a battle with evil
pastorale;a musical composition that evokes rural life
stamp album;an album for stamps
likeness;a graphic image of a person or thing
passport;a document issued by a country to a citizen allowing that person to travel abroad and re-enter the home country
modulation;a musical passage moving from one key to another
revenue bond;a bond issued by an agency that is commissioned to finance public works. revenue from the public property is used to pay off the bond
diptych;a painting or carving (especially an altarpiece) on two panels (usually hinged like a book)
quitclaim;document transferring title or right or claim to another
writ of habeas corpus;a writ ordering a prisoner to be brought before a judge
library program;a program in a program library
expense account;an account to which salespersons or executives can charge travel and entertainment expenses
instruction book;a book of directions for using or operating some piece of equipment
news conference;a conference at which press and tv reporters ask questions of a politician or other celebrity
theatrical production;the production of a drama on the stage
thirty second note;a musical note having the time value of a thirty-second of a whole note
continuation;a part added to a book or play that continues and extends it
minstrelsy;ballads sung by minstrels
flaunt;the act of displaying something ostentatiously. 'his behavior was an outrageous flaunt'
account;a statement of recent transactions and the resulting balance. 'they send me an accounting every month'
trade book;a book intended for general readership
sob;a convulsive gasp made during weeping
copperplate;a print made from a copperplate engraving
duo;a musical composition for two performers
ration card;a card certifying the bearer's right to purchase rationed goods
pact;a written agreement between two states or sovereigns
whipping;a stitch passing over an edge diagonally
quartette;a musical composition for four performers
minuet;a stately piece of music composed for dancing the minuet. often incorporated into a sonata or suite
incantation;a ritual recitation of magical words or sounds
minor diatonic scale;a diatonic scale with notes separated by whole tones except for the 2nd and 3rd and 5th and 6th
notation;a technical system of symbols used to represent special things
orrery;an apparatus that illustrates the relative positions and motions of bodies in the solar system by rotation and revolution of balls moved by wheelwork. sometimes incorporated in a clock
roadbook;a guidebook describing the roads of a country. contains maps and (sometimes) a gazetteer
tonic;(music) the first note of a diatonic scale
hemstitch;similar to drawnwork
newspaper;a newspaper as a physical object: 'when it began to rain he covered his head with a newspaper'
monologue;a long utterance by one person (especially one that prevents others from participating in the conversation)
sheet music;a musical composition in printed or written form. 'she turned the pages of the music as he played'
clamouring;loud and persistent outcry from many people. 'he ignored the clamor of the crowd'
creation;"something that has been brought into existence by someone"
hornpipe;music for dancing the hornpipe
pieta;a representation of the virgin mary mourning over the dead body of jesus
graphics;the drawings and photographs in the layout of a book
scripture;the sacred writings of the christian religion. 'he went to carry the word to the heathen'
logarithm;the exponent required to produce a given number
sexadecimal number system;a positional system of numeration that uses hexadecimal digits and a radix of 16
snapshot program;a trace program that produces output for selected conditions
lucubration;a solemn literary work that is the product of laborious cogitation
syntax checker;a program to check natural language syntax
talking;an exchange of ideas via conversation. 'let's have more work and less talk around here'
offprint;a separately printed article that originally appeared in a larger publication
borrower s card;a card certifying the bearer's right to use the library
tittle tattle;light informal conversation for social occasions
book of instructions;a manual usually accompanying a technical device and explaining how to install or operate it
statuette;a small carved or molded figure
scrawl;poor handwriting
paging;calling out the name of a person (especially by a loudspeaker system). 'the public address system in the hospital was used for paging'
aeneid;an epic in latin by virgil. tells the adventures of aeneas after the trojan war. provides an illustrious historical background for the roman empire
f clef;a clef that puts the f below middle c on the fourth line of a staff
petit point;a small diagonal needlepoint stitch
audience;a conference (usually with someone important). 'he had a consultation with the judge'. 'he requested an audience with the king'
machine language;a set of instructions coded so that the computer can use it directly without further translation
wry face;a disdainful pouting grimace
input program;a utility program that organizes the input to a computer
dance;an artistic form of nonverbal communication
agony column;a newspaper column devoted to personal problems
round;a partsong in which voices follow each other. one voice starts and others join in one after another until all are singing different parts of the song at the same time. 'they enjoyed singing rounds'
spell checker;an electronic dictionary in a word processor that can be used to catch misspelled words
escrow;a written agreement (or property or money) delivered to a third party or put in trust by one party to a contract to be returned after fulfillment of some condition
unix operating system;a powerful operating system developed at the bell telephone laboratories
chapter;a subdivision of a written work. usually numbered and titled. 'he read a chapter every night before falling asleep'
overhead;a transparency for use with an overhead projector
gilbert and sullivan;the music of gilbert and sullivan. 'he could sing all of gilbert and sullivan'
salt ii;the second treaty between the us and ussr resulting from the strategic arms limitation talks
pocket dictionary;a dictionary that is small enough to carry in your pocket
episode;a brief section of a literary or dramatic work that forms part of a connected series
sanson flamsteed projection;an equal-area map projection showing parallels and the equator as straight lines and other meridians as curved. used to map tropical latitudes
issue;one of a series published periodically. 'she found an old issue of the magazine in her dentist's waitingroom'
identikit picture;(trademark) a likeness of a person's face constructed from descriptions given to police. uses a set of transparencies of various facial features that can be combined to build up a picture of the person sought
comic opera;opera with a happy ending and in which some of the text is spoken
convertible security;a corporate security (usually bonds or preferred stock) that can be exchanged for another form of security (usually common stock)
john;the last of the four gospels in the new testament
staging;the production of a drama on the stage
glossary;an alphabetical list of technical terms in some specialized field of knowledge. usually published as an appendix to a text on that field
declaration;a formal expression by a meeting. agreed to by a vote
imitation;a copy that is presented as the original
output;things produced
cast;object formed by a mold
reprinting;a publication (such as a book) that is reprinted without changes or editing and offered again for sale
percentage point;the dot at the left of a decimal fraction
letterpress;printing from a plate with raised characters
spenserian stanza;a stanza with eight lines of iambic pentameter and a concluding alexandrine with the rhyme pattern abab bcbc c. 'the spenserian stanza was introduced by edmund spenser in the faerie queene'
yak;noisy talk
paean;a hymn of praise (especially one sung in ancient greece to invoke or thank a deity)
charm;a verbal formula believed to have magical force. 'he whispered a spell as he moved his hands'. 'inscribed around its base is a charm in balinese'
rhyme;a piece of poetry
autoradiograph;a radiogram produced by radiation emitted by the specimen being photographed
mezzo relievo;a sculptural relief between low relief and high relief
fountainhead;an abundant source. 'she was a well of information'
building code;set of standards established and enforced by local government for the structural safety of buildings
certified cheque;a check containing certification that the person who issued the check has sufficient funds on deposit to cover payment
somniloquy;uttering speech while asleep
processional;religious music used in a procession
banker s acceptance;banking: a time draft drawn on and accepted by a bank
prohibition;a law forbidding the sale of alcoholic beverages. 'in 1920 the 18th amendment to the constitution established prohibition in the us'
steel engraving;an impression taken from an engraved steel plate
seventh;the musical interval between one note and another seven notes away from it
bow;bending the head or body or knee as a sign of reverence or submission or shame
marriage settlement;a prenuptial agreement or contract
sand painting;a painting done by amerindians (especially navaho). made of fine colored sands on a neutral background
banquet song;a song (sometimes improvised) sung by guests at a banquet
knitting;created by interlacing yarn in a series of connected loops using straight eyeless needles or by machine
prefix notation;a parenthesis-free notation for forming mathematical expressions in which each operator precedes its operands
saying;a word or phrase that particular people use in particular situations. 'pardon the expression'
cyclorama;a picture (or series of pictures) representing a continuous scene
hagiographa;the third of three divisions of the hebrew scriptures
knitwork;created by interlacing yarn in a series of connected loops using straight eyeless needles or by machine
chromatic scale;a 12-note scale including all the semitones of the octave
armenian;a writing system having an alphabet of 38 letters in which the armenian language is written
sketch map;a map drawn from observation (rather than from exact measurements) and representing the main features of an area
war cry;a yell intended to rally a group of soldiers in battle
rendering;perspective drawing of an architect's design
visible speech;speech displayed spectrographically
judgement;the legal document stating the reasons for a judicial decision. 'opinions are usually written by a single judge'
user interface;(computer science) a program that controls a display for the user (usually on a computer monitor) and that allows the user to interact with the system
polyconic projection;a conic map projection having distances between meridians equal to those distance on a globe
chorus;the part of a song where a soloist is joined by a group of singers
speech;something spoken. 'he could hear them uttering merry speeches'
mobile;a sculpture suspended in midair whose delicately balanced parts can be set in motion by air currents
hardback;a book with cardboard or cloth or leather covers
secured bond;a bond that is back by collateral
feature article;a special or prominent article in a newspaper or magazine. 'they ran a feature on retirement planning'
satin stitch;flat stitches worked so closely as to resemble satin
septette;a musical composition written for seven performers
whipstitching;a stitch passing over an edge diagonally
turnery;objects made on a lathe
reader;one of a series of texts for students learning to read
summary;writing that presents the main points in a concise form
lisp program;a program written in lisp
interjection;an abrupt emphatic exclamation
stravinsky;the music of stravinsky. 'stravinsky no longer causes riots in the streets'
corrida;a spanish or portuguese or latin american spectacle. a matador baits and (usually) kills a bull in an arena before many spectators
detective story;a narrative about someone who investigates crimes and obtains evidence leading to their resolution
treasury obligations;negotiable debt obligations of the us government secured by its full faith and credit
tax bill;money owed for taxes
note;a short personal letter. 'drop me a line when you get there'
typewriting;writing done with a typewriter
clipping;an excerpt cut from a newspaper or magazine. 'he searched through piles of letters and clippings'
argument;a discussion in which reasons are advanced for and against some proposition or proposal. 'the argument over foreign aid goes on and on'
lyric;a short poem of songlike quality
lithoglyptics;the art of engraving on precious stones
accent;the usage or vocabulary that is characteristic of a specific group of people. 'the immigrants spoke an odd dialect of english'. 'he has a strong german accent'
secret writing;a piece of writing in code or cipher
kowtow;a former chinese custom of touching the ground with the forehead as a sign of respect or submission
waxwork;an effigy (usually of a famous person) made of wax
tone;a musical interval of two semitones
dedication;an inscription (as in a book or musical work) dedicating it to someone or something
shipping articles;a contract between crew and captain of a ship
speech;the exchange of spoken words. 'they were perfectly comfortable together without speech'
lay;a narrative poem of popular origin
show;something done in order to communicate a particular impression. 'made a display of strength'. 'a show of impatience'. 'a good show of looking interested'
yack;noisy talk
intermezzo;a short movement coming between the major sections of a symphony
security;a formal declaration that documents a fact of relevance to finance and investment. the holder has a right to receive interest or dividends. 'he held several valuable securities'
catchword;a favorite saying of a sect or political group
hillbilly music;country music originating in mountainous regions of southern us
interpretive program;(computer science) a program that translates and executes source language statements one line at a time
linkage editor;an editor program that creates one module from several by resolving cross-references among the modules
retroflection;an articulatory gesture made by turning the tip of the tongue back against the roof of the mouth
card;a sign posted in a public place as an advertisement. 'a poster advertised the coming attractions'
trade acceptance;a bill of exchange for a specific purchase. drawn on the buyer by the seller and bearing the buyer's acceptance
subprogram;a set sequence of steps, part of larger computer program
reissue;a publication (such as a book) that is reprinted without changes or editing and offered again for sale
bust;a sculpture of the head and shoulders of a person
redaction;putting something (as a literary work) into publishable form
book;a number sheets (ticket or stamps etc.) bound together on one edge. 'he bought a book of stamps'
treasury note;securities with maturities of 1 to 10 years. sold for cash or in exchange for maturing issues or at auction
call;the option to buy a given stock (or stock index or commodity future) at a given price before a given date
monophonic music;music consisting of a single vocal part (usually with accompaniment)
dialog;a conversation between two persons
incentive option;an option granted to corporate executives if the company achieves certain financial goals
sforzando;an accented chord
reading clinic;a clinic for people with reading disabilities
tonic solfa;a system of solmization using the solfa syllables: do-re-mi-fa-sol-la-ti
silverpoint;a drawing made with a silver-tipped instrument on specially prepared paper (15th & 16th centuries)
globe;a sphere on which a map (especially of the earth) is represented
mate;an exact duplicate. 'when a match is found an entry is made in the notebook'
marble;a sculpture carved from marble
melodic line;a succession of notes forming a distinctive sequence. 'she was humming an air from beethoven'
print;the result of the printing process
table talk;conversation during a meal
affidavit;written declaration made under oath
surrealism;art and literature attempting to express the working of the subconscious and characterized by fantastic imagery and incongruous juxtapositions
carving;an object created by carving (as wood or ivory or stone)
reflection;expression without words. 'tears are an expression of grief'. 'the pulse is a reflection of the heart's condition'
classic;a creation of the highest excellence
thesaurus;a book of synonyms
loophole;an ambiguity (especially one in the text of a law or contract) that makes it possible to evade a difficulty or obligation
chat;an informal conversation
sphinx;one of a number of large stone statues with the body of a lion and the head of a man that were built by the ancient egyptians
payroll check;a check issued in payment of wages or salary
mispronunciation;incorrect pronunciation
software documentation;program listings or technical manuals describing the operation and use of programs
literary criticism;a written evaluation of a work of literature
copyright;a document granting exclusive right to publish and sell literary or musical or artistic work
wink;closing one eye quickly as a signal
municipal bond;a bond issued by a state or local government
beatitude;one of the eight sayings of jesus at the beginning of the sermon on the mount. in latin each saying begins with 'beatus' (blessed). 'her favorite beatitude is 'blessed are the meek for they shall inherit the earth''
instalment;a part of a published serial
chuckle;a soft partly suppressed laugh
concerto grosso;a baroque composition for orchestra and a group of solo instruments
photolithograph;a lithograph produced by photographically produced plates
catalog;a book or pamphlet containing an enumeration of things. 'he found it in the sears catalog'
embroidery;decorative needlework
rhapsody;an epic poem adapted for recitation
enunciation;the articulation of speech regarded from the point of view of its intelligibility to the audience
nagari;a syllabic script used in writing sanskrit and hindi
piece of work;something produced or accomplished through the effort or activity or agency of a person or thing: 'it is not regarded as one of his more memorable works'. 'the symphony was hailed as an ingenious work'. 'he was indebted to the pioneering work of john dewey'. 'the work of an active imagination'. 'erosion is the work of wind or water over time'
words;the words that are spoken. 'i listened to his words very closely'
cantus firmus;a melody used as the basis for a polyphonic composition
grimace;a contorted facial expression. 'she made a grimace at the prospect'
chopin;the music of chopin. 'he practiced chopin day and night'
blues;a type of folk song that originated among black americans at the beginning of the 20th century. has a melancholy sound from repeated used of blue notes
chamber music;serious music performed by a small group of musicians
record album;an album for holding phonograph records
bond certificate;an interest-bearing (or discounted) certificate of debt issued by a government or corporation in order to raise money
stage whisper;a loud whisper
four part harmony;harmony in which each chord has four notes that create four melodic lines
union card;a card certifying membership in a labor union
commercial instrument;a document of or relating to commerce
composition;a musical work that has been created. 'the composition is written in four movements'
king james version;an english translation of the bible published in 1611
diorama;a picture (or series of pictures) representing a continuous scene
photographic print;a printed picture produced from a photographic negative
aerogramme;a letter sent by air mail
pop music;music of general appeal to young people
conference;a discussion among participants who have an agreed (serious) topic
words;the text of a popular song or musical-comedy number. 'his compositions always started with the lyrics'. 'he wrote both words and music'. 'the song uses colloquial language'
blue book;a register of persons who are socially prominent
amicus curiae brief;a brief presented by someone interested in influencing the outcome of a lawsuit but who is not a party to it
best seller;a book that has had a large and rapid sale
planography;the process of printing from a surface on which the printing areas are not raised but are ink-receptive (as opposed to ink repellent)
gabfest;light informal conversation for social occasions
strophe;one section of a lyric poem or choral ode in classical greek drama
galley proof;a proof taken before the type is broken up to print pages
interview;a conference (usually with someone important). 'he had a consultation with the judge'. 'he requested an audience with the king'
embossment;sculpture in which the figures are raised above a surrounding flat plane
display;exhibiting openly in public view. 'a display of courage'
acting out;a (usually irritating) impulsive and uncontrollable outburst by a problem child or a neurotic adult
murder charge;an indictment charging someone with murder
disk operating system;an operating system that is on a disk
severable contract;a contract in which in the event of a breach by one of the parties can be considered as several independent agreements expressed in a single instrument
chin music;idle or foolish talk
work in progress;a piece of work that is not yet finished
identikit;(trademark) a likeness of a person's face constructed from descriptions given to police. uses a set of transparencies of various facial features that can be combined to build up a picture of the person sought
computer graphics;the pictorial representation and manipulation of data by a computer
dickens;a word used in exclamations of confusion. 'what the devil' or 'the deuce with it' or 'the dickens you say'
mercator projection;a map projection of the earth onto a cylinder. areas appear greater the farther they are from the equator
low relief;a relief in which forms extend only slightly from the background
exponent;a mathematical notation indicating the number of times a quantity is multiplied by itself
nocturne;a pensive lyrical piece of music (especially for the piano)
lettering;letters inscribed on something
deposition;written declaration made under oath
major scale;a diatonic scale with notes separated by whole tones except for the 3rd and 4th and 7th and 8th
figure;a representation of a bodily form (especially of a person). 'he made a figure of santa claus'
voice part;a part written for a singer
confab;an informal conversation
capital account;(economics) that part of the balance of payments recording a nation's outflow and inflow of financial securities
overestimation;an appraisal that is too high
basso continuo;a bass part written out in full and accompanied by figures for successive chords
shibboleth;a favorite saying of a sect or political group
ending;the last section of a communication. 'in conclusion i want to say...'
grotesque;art characterized by an incongruous mixture of parts of humans and animals interwoven with plants
jonah;a book in the old testament that tells the story of jonah and the whale
bhagavad gita;(hinduism) the sacred 'song of god' composed about 200 bc and incorporated into the mahabharata (a sanskrit epic). contains a discussion between krishna and the indian hero arjuna on human nature and the purpose of life
rap;(informal) voluble conversation
flat;a notation indicating one half step lower than the note named
testament;a legal document declaring a person's wishes regarding the disposal of their property when they die
copperplate;a fine style of handwriting based on the writing used on copperplate engravings
registered bond;a bond whose owner is recorded on the books of the issuer. can be transferred to another owner only when endorsed by the registered owner
true bill;an indictment endorsed by a grand jury
book;a written version of a play or other dramatic composition. used in preparing for a performance
extract;a passage selected from a larger work. 'he presented exerpts from william james' philosophical writings'
conical projection;a projection of the globe onto a cone with its point over one of the earth's poles
cutaway;a drawing or model of something in which the outside is omitted to reveal the inner parts
melodic phrase;a succession of notes forming a distinctive sequence. 'she was humming an air from beethoven'
legal brief;a document stating the facts and points of law of a client's case
plus sign;a sign indicating the operation of addition
play;a dramatic work intended for performance by actors on a stage. 'he wrote several plays but only one was produced on broadway'
electronic image;an image represented as a two dimensional array of brightness values for pixels
phonetic transcription;a transcription intended to represent each distinct speech sound with a separate symbol
medieval mode;any of a system of modes used in gregorian chants up until 1600. derived historically from the greek mode
whole note;a musical note having the longest time value
chorale prelude;a composition for organ using a chorale as a basis for variations
musical passage;a short section of a musical composition
opinion;the legal document stating the reasons for a judicial decision. 'opinions are usually written by a single judge'
pout;a disdainful pouting grimace
yodel;a songlike cry in which the voice fluctuates rapidly between the normal voice and falsetto
commerce;social exchange, esp. of opinions, attitudes, etc.
theme song;a melody used to identify a performer or a dance band or radio/tv program
address;(computer science) the code that identifies where a piece of information is stored
mystery play;a medieval play representing episodes from the life of christ
lament;a cry of sorrow and grief. 'their pitiful laments could be heard throughout the ward'
medicare payment;a check reimbursing an aged person for the expenses of health care
subpoena duces tecum;a writ issued by a court at the request of one of the parties to a suit. it requires a witness to bring to court or to a deposition any relevant documents under the witness's control
line;a short personal letter. 'drop me a line when you get there'
text editor;(computer science) an application that can be used to create and view and edit text files
crotchet;a musical note having the time value of a quarter of a whole note
put option;an option to sell
source program;a program written in a language from which statements are translated into machine language
bill;a statement of money owed for goods or services. 'he paid his bill and left'. 'send me an account of what i owe'
devanagari script;a syllabic script used in writing sanskrit and hindi
subroutine;a set sequence of steps, part of larger computer program
edict;a legally binding command or decision entered on the court record (as if issued by a court or judge). 'a friend in new mexico said that the order caused no trouble out there'
canticle;a hymn derived from the bible
passage;a short section of a musical composition
series;a periodical that appears at scheduled times
revised version;a british revision of the authorized version
blank cheque;a check that has been signed but with the amount payable left blank
berceuse;a quiet song intended to lull a child to sleep
confession;a written document acknowledging an offense and signed by the guilty party
novel;a extended fictional work in prose. usually in the form of a story
quilting;a design stitched through layers of fabric and a filling
facial gesture;a gesture executed with the facial muscles
art;the products of human creativity. works of art collectively
enabling clause;a provision in a law that confers on appropriate officials the power to implement or enforce the law
cut;in films: an immediate transition from one shot to the next. 'the cut from the accident scene to the hospital seemed too abrupt'
bank draft;a draft drawn by a bank against funds deposited in another bank
manuscript;the form of a literary work submitted for publication
writ of error;a judicial writ from an appellate court ordering the court of record to produce the records of trial
literary argument;a summary of the subject or plot of a literary work or play or movie. 'the editor added the argument to the poem'
cardiogram;a graphical record of the cardiac cycle produced by an electrocardiograph
mimesis;the representation of another person's words in a speech
information return;a return that provides information to the tax collector but does not compute the tax liability
applications programme;a program that gives a computer instructions that provide the user with tools to accomplish a task. 'he has tried several different word processing applications'
naval chart;a chart for a navigator showing the prevailing meteorological and hydrographic and navigational conditions
dump routine;a routine that writes from an internal store to some external medium
wicker;something made of interlaced slender branches (especially willow branches)
candlewick;loops of soft yarn are cut to give a tufted pattern
bill of indictment;a formal document written for a prosecuting attorney charging a person with some offense
folk;the traditional and typically anonymous music that is an expression of the life of people in a community
high relief;a sculptural relief in which more than half of each figure projects out from the surrounding plane surface
treasury bill;a short-term noninterest-bearing obligation that can be traded on a discount basis for 91 days
support;a subordinate musical part. provides background for more important parts
hail mary;a salutation to the virgin mary now used in prayers to her
programma;an edict that has been publicly posted
common logarithm;a logarithm to the base 10
work;the total output of a writer or artist (or a substantial part of it). 'he studied the entire wagnerian oeuvre'. 'picasso's work can be divided into periods'
procedure;a set sequence of steps, part of larger computer program
ambiguity;an expression whose meaning cannot be determined from its context
staff;(music) the system of five horizontal lines on which the musical notes are written
bargello;needlepoint stitch that produces zigzag lines
drawl;a slow speech pattern with prolonged vowels
scribble;poor handwriting
theme song;a melody that recurs and comes to represent a musical play or movie
razzing;a cry or noise made to express displeasure or contempt
plainchant;a liturgical chant of the roman catholic church
serial;a periodical that appears at scheduled times
tab;the bill in a restaurant. 'he asked the waiter for the check'
reference;a book to which you can refer for authoritative facts. 'he contributed articles to the basic reference work on that topic'
guy;(british) an effigy of guy fawkes that is burned on a bonfire on guy fawkes day
authorized version;an english translation of the bible published in 1611
doggerel;a comic verse of irregular measure. 'he had heard some silly doggerel that kept running through his mind'
ticket;a summons issued to an offender (especially to someone who violates a traffic regulation)
yajur veda;a collection of sacrificial formulas
bad check;a check that is dishonored on presentation because of insufficient funds. 'issuing a bad check is a form of larceny'
legend;a story about mythical or supernatural beings or events
mannequin;a life-size dummy used to display clothes
gesticulation;the use of movements (especially of the hands) to communicate familiar or prearranged signals
enchiridion;a concise reference book providing specific information about a subject or location
torah;the first of three divisions of the hebrew scriptures comprising the first five books of the old testament considered as a unit
grant;a contract granting the right to operate a subsidiary business: 'he got the beer concession at the ball park'
zero coupon bond;a bond (corporate or government) that is issued at a deep discount from its value at maturity and pays no interest during the life of the bond
newspaper column;an article giving opinions or perspectives
teaching certificate;a certificate saying that the holder is qualified to teach in the public schools
boogie;an instrumental version of the blues (especially for piano)
ledger;an accounting book as a physical object: 'he bought a new daybook'
mannikin;a life-size dummy used to display clothes
writings;the third of three divisions of the hebrew scriptures
printing;text written in the style of printed matter
gunboat diplomacy;diplomacy in which the nations threaten to use force in order to obtain their objectives
decimal point;the dot at the left of a decimal fraction
bar;notation for a repeating pattern of musical beats. written followed by a vertical bar
reprint;a separately printed article that originally appeared in a larger publication
hoot;a cry or noise made to express displeasure or contempt
prayer book;a book containing prayers
roundelay;a song in which a line or phrase is repeated as the refrain
order of payment;a document ordering the payment of money. drawn by one person or bank on another
magic realism;meticulously realistic painting of imaginary scenes and fantastic images
bellowing;a very loud utterance. 'his bellow filled the hallway'
blank check;a check that has been signed but with the amount payable left blank
demonstration;a visual presentation showing how something works. 'the lecture was accompanied by dramatic demonstrations'
civil law;the legal code of ancient rome. codified under justinian. the basis for many modern systems of civil law
popularism;music adapted to the understanding and taste of the majority
placard;a sign posted in a public place as an advertisement. 'a poster advertised the coming attractions'
crammer;a textbook designed for cramming
southernism;a locution or pronunciation peculiar to the southern us
pragmatic sanction;an imperial decree that becomes part of the fundamental law of the land
hieroglyph;writing that resembles hieroglyphics (usually by being illegible)
axiom;a saying that widely accepted on its own merits
tune;a succession of notes forming a distinctive sequence. 'she was humming an air from beethoven'
angiogram;an x-ray representation of blood vessels made after the injection of a radiopaque substance. 'angiograms are produced by angiography'
autograph;something written by one's own hand
hymnal;a songbook containing a collection of hymns
rallying cry;a slogan used to rally support for a cause. 'a cry to arms'
sports section;the section of a newspaper that reports on sports
hexadecimal system;a positional system of numeration that uses hexadecimal digits and a radix of 16
lantern slide;a transparency mounted in a frame. viewed with a slide projector
morse code;a telegraph code in which letters and numbers are represented by strings of dots and dashes (short and long signals)
identity card;a card certifying the identity of the bearer. 'he had to show his card to get in'
flourish;a short lively tune played on brass instruments. 'he entered to a flourish of trumpets'. 'her arrival was greeted with a rousing fanfare'
douay rheims version;an english translation of the vulgate by roman catholic scholars
celestial globe;a spherical model of the heavens
lazy daisy stitch;long chain stitches arranged in flower patterns
airplane ticket;a ticket good for a trip on an airplane
gamut;the entire scale of musical notes
surety bond;a bond given to protect the recipient against loss in case the terms of a contract are not filled. a surety company assumes liability for nonperformance
transparency;a positive photograph or drawing on a transparent base. viewed with a projector
acciaccatura;an embellishing note usually written in smaller size
color chart;a chart displaying colors
relational database management system;a database management system designed to manage a relational database
iliad;a greek epic poem (attributed to homer) describing the siege of troy
compiling program;(computer science) a program that decodes instructions written in a higher order language and produces a machine language program
quartet;a musical composition for four performers
stereo;two photographs taken from slightly different angles that appear three-dimensional when viewed together
spenserian sonnet;a sonnet consisting of three quatrains and a concluding couplet in iambic pentameter with the rhyme pattern abab bcbd cdcd ee
teach in;an extended session (as on a college campus) for lectures and discussion on an important and usually controversial issue
computer code;(computer science) the symbolic arrangement of data or instructions in a computer program or the set of such instructions
book;a book as a physical object: a number of pages bound together. 'he used a large book as a doorstop'
work permit;a legal document giving information required for employment
vociferation;a loud utterance. often in protest or opposition. 'the speaker was interrupted by loud cries from the rear of the audience'
graphics;photographs or other visual representations in a printed publication
blasphemy;blasphemous language (expressing disrespect for god or for something sacred)
calque;an expression introduced into one language by translating it from another language
music;a musical composition in printed or written form. 'she turned the pages of the music as he played'
writ of execution;a writ ordering that a judgment be enforced
missive;a written message addressed to a person or organization. 'wrote an indignant letter to the editor'
pedantry;a ostentatious and inappropriate display of learning
revising;editing that involves writing something again
reprieve;a warrant granting postponement (usually to postpone the execution of the death sentence)
dithyramb;a passionate poem of irregular form
computer address;(computer science) the code that identifies where a piece of information is stored
cackle;noisy talk
manual;a small handbook
single stitch;a crochet stitch
brahms;the music of brahms. 'brahms was included in the program'
mail call;a call of names of those receiving mail
monograph;a detailed and documented treatise on a particular subject
encyclical letter;a letter from the pope sent to all roman catholic bishops throughout the world
