left wing;those trying to overthrow the established order
splinter group;a faction or sect that has broken away from its parent organization
analytical cubism;the early phase of cubism
culture;a particular civilization at a particular stage
imagism;a movement by american and english poets early in the 20th century in reaction to victorian sentimentality. used common speech in free verse with clear concrete imagery
four hundred;the exclusive social set of a city
futurism;an artistic movement in italy around 1910 that tried to express the energy and values of the machine age
nonalinement;"people (or countries) who are not aligned with other people (or countries) in a pact or treaty"
party;a band of people associated temporarily in some activity. 'they organized a party to search for food'. 'the company of cooks walked into the kitchen'
pro choice faction;those who argue that the decision to have an induced abortion should be made by the mother
surrealism;a 20th century movement in art and literature (developing out of dadaism) that used fantastic images and incongruous juxtapositions in order to represent unconscious thoughts and dreams
cultural movement;a group of people working together to advance certain cultural goals
naturalism;an artistic movement in 19th century france. artists and writers strove for detailed realistic and factual description
new wave;an art movement in french cinema in the 1960s
galere;a coterie of undesirable people
left;those trying to overthrow the established order
art deco;a style of design that was popular in the 1920s and 1930s. marked by stylized forms and geometric designs adapted to mass production
reform movement;a movement intended to bring about social and humanitarian reforms
artistic movement;a group of artists who agree on general principles
fold;"a group of people who adhere to a common faith and habitually attend a given church"
interest;"(usually plural) a social group whose members control some field of activity and who have common aims. 'the iron interests stepped up production'"
old guard;a faction that is unwilling to accept new ideas
stretcher party;a party of people with stretchers to carry an injured person
rogue s gallery;a coterie of undesirable people
dada;a nihilistic art movement (especially in painting) that flourished in europe early in the 20th century. based on irrationality and negation of the accepted laws of beauty
synthetic cubism;the late phase of cubism
procession;"a collection of things moving ahead in an orderly manner"
coterie;an exclusive circle of people with a common purpose
political movement;a group of people working together to achieve a political goal
trade unioniam;the system or principles and theory of labor unions
faithful;"a group of people who adhere to a common faith and habitually attend a given church"
lot;"an unofficial association of people or groups. 'the smart set goes there'. 'they were an angry lot'"
cohort;a band of warriors (originally a unit of a roman legion)
company;a band of people associated temporarily in some activity. 'they organized a party to search for food'. 'the company of cooks walked into the kitchen'
labor movement;an organized attempt by workers to improve their status by united action especially via labor unions (especially the leaders of this movement)
labor;an organized attempt by workers to improve their status by united action especially via labor unions (especially the leaders of this movement)
ingroup;an exclusive circle of people with a common purpose
cabal;a clique that seeks power usually through intrigue
interest group;"(usually plural) a social group whose members control some field of activity and who have common aims. 'the iron interests stepped up production'"
defence;"the defendant and his legal advisors collectively. 'the defense called for a mistrial'"
neoexpressionism;an art movement based on expressionism. developed in 1980s in europe and us. crudely drawn garish paintings
march;a procession of people walking together. 'the march went up fifth avenue'
nonalignment;"people (or countries) who are not aligned with other people (or countries) in a pact or treaty"
mafia;(informal) any tightly knit group of trusted associates
fatigue party;a group of soldiers on fatigue duty
jet set;a set of rich and fashionable people who travel widely for pleasure
pack;an exclusive circle of people with a common purpose
reformation;a religious movement of the 16th century that began as an attempt to reform the roman catholic church and resulted in the creation of protestant churches
right wing;the conservative faction of a political party
front;"a group of people with a common ideology who try together to achieve certain general goals. 'he was a charter member of the movement'. 'politicians have to respect a mass movement'. 'he led the national liberation front'"
art movement;a group of artists who agree on general principles
religious movement;a movement intended to bring about religious reforms
counter reformation;the reaction of the roman catholic church to the reformation reaffirming the veneration of saints and the authority of the pope (to which protestants objected). many leaders were jesuits
horsy set;a set of people sharing a devotion to horses and horseback riding and horse racing
defense lawyers;"the defendant and his legal advisors collectively. 'the defense called for a mistrial'"
circle;"an unofficial association of people or groups. 'the smart set goes there'. 'they were an angry lot'"
civilization;a society in an advanced state of development
unionism;the system or principles and theory of labor unions
van;artists or writers whose ideas are ahead of their time
cortege;a funeral procession
oxford movement;19th-century movement in the church of england opposing liberal tendencies
junta;a clique that seeks power usually through intrigue
movement;"a group of people with a common ideology who try together to achieve certain general goals. 'he was a charter member of the movement'. 'politicians have to respect a mass movement'. 'he led the national liberation front'"
tribalism;the culture and organization of a tribe
society;"an extended social group having a distinctive cultural and economic organization"
subgroup;"a distinct and often subordinate group within a group"
camp;an exclusive circle of people with a common purpose
helladic civilization;the bronze-age culture of mainland greece 2500-1100 bc
callithump;a noisy boisterous parade
tenantry;"tenants of an estate considered as a group"
right;the conservative faction of a political party
caravan;a procession (of wagons or mules or camels) traveling together in single file. 'we were part of a caravan of almost a thousand camels'. 'they joined the wagon train for safety'
special interest;an individual or group who are concerned with some particular part of the economy and who try to influence legislators or bureacrats to act in their favor
rescue party;a party of rescuers
party to the action;a party of people taking a role in legal proceedings
neoromanticism;an art movement based on a revival of romanticism in art and literature
nouvelle vague;an art movement in french cinema in the 1960s
cavalcade;a procession of people traveling on horseback
hunger march;a march of protest or demonstration by the unemployed
realism;an artistic movement in 19th century france. artists and writers strove for detailed realistic and factual description
avant garde;artists or writers whose ideas are ahead of their time
parade;a ceremonial procession including people marching
party to the transaction;a party of people taking a role in legal proceedings
ecumenical movement;a movement (especially among protestant denominations) aimed to promote understanding and cooperation among christian churches. aimed ultimately at universal christian unity
defense team;"the defendant and his legal advisors collectively. 'the defense called for a mistrial'"
age of reason;a movement in the 18th century that advocated the use of reason in the reappraisal of accepted ideas and social institutions
minoan culture;the bronze-age culture of crete 3000-1100 bc
callithump parade;a noisy boisterous parade
mycenaean culture;the bronze-age culture of mycenae 1400-1100 bc
band;"an unofficial association of people or groups. 'the smart set goes there'. 'they were an angry lot'"
loop;an inner circle of advisors (especially under president reagan). 'he's no longer in the loop'
faction;a dissenting clique
defense;"the defendant and his legal advisors collectively. 'the defense called for a mistrial'"
motorcade;a procession of people traveling in motor cars
landing party;a part of a ship's company organized for special duties ashore
train;a procession (of wagons or mules or camels) traveling together in single file. 'we were part of a caravan of almost a thousand camels'. 'they joined the wagon train for safety'
set;"an unofficial association of people or groups. 'the smart set goes there'. 'they were an angry lot'"
camarilla;a clique that seeks power usually through intrigue
trade union movement;an organized attempt by workers to improve their status by united action especially via labor unions (especially the leaders of this movement)
enlightenment;a movement in the 18th century that advocated the use of reason in the reappraisal of accepted ideas and social institutions
cubism;an artistic movement in france beginning in 1907 that featured surfaces of geometrical planes
junto;a clique that seeks power usually through intrigue
supra expressionism;a movement that tried to go beyond expressionism
faction;a clique that seeks power usually through intrigue
conspiracy;a group of conspirators banded together to achieve some harmful or illegal purpose
wagon train;a procession (of wagons or mules or camels) traveling together in single file. 'we were part of a caravan of almost a thousand camels'. 'they joined the wagon train for safety'
clique;an exclusive circle of people with a common purpose
vanguard;artists or writers whose ideas are ahead of their time
syndicalism;a radical political movement that advocates bringing industry and government under the control of labor unions
helladic culture;the bronze-age culture of mainland greece 2500-1100 bc
constructivism;an abstractionist artistic movement in russia after world war i. industrial materials were used to construct nonrepresentational objects
mycenaean civilization;the bronze-age culture of mycenae 1400-1100 bc
maffia;(informal) any tightly knit group of trusted associates
prosecution;"the lawyers acting for the state to put the case against the defendant"
search party;a party of people to search for someone
minoan civilization;the bronze-age culture of crete 3000-1100 bc
pro life faction;those who argue that induced abortion is killing and should be prohibited
confederacy;a group of conspirators banded together to achieve some harmful or illegal purpose
sinn fein;an irish republican political movement founded in 1905 to promote independence from england and unification of ireland. became the political branch of the irish republican army
expressionism;an art movement early in the 20th century. the artist's subjective expression of inner experiences was emphasized
inner circle;an exclusive circle of people with a common purpose
horsey set;a set of people sharing a devotion to horses and horseback riding and horse racing
common front;a movement in which several individuals or groups with different interests join together. 'the unions presented a common front at the bargaining table'
flock;a church congregation guided by a pastor
humanism;the cultural movement of the renaissance. based on classical studies
dadaism;a nihilistic art movement (especially in painting) that flourished in europe early in the 20th century. based on irrationality and negation of the accepted laws of beauty
pietism;17th and 18th-century movement in the german lutheran church stressing personal piety and devotion
sect;a dissenting clique
congregation;"an assemblage of people or animals or things collected together. 'a congregation of children pleaded for his autograph'. 'a great congregation of birds flew over'"
convoy;a procession of land vehicles traveling together
congregation;"a group of people who adhere to a common faith and habitually attend a given church"
callathump;a noisy boisterous parade
