gobi desert;a desert in central asia
st. louis;the largest city in missouri. was an important staging area for wagon trains westward in the 19th century
staging area;an area where troops and equipment in transit are assembled before a military operation
repair;a frequently visited place
irredenta;"a region that is related ethnically or historically to one country but is controlled politically by another"
essen;a city in western germany. industrial center of the ruhr
emirate;the domain controlled by an emir
gila desert;a desert area in s arizona
munich;the capital and largest city of bavaria in southeastern germany
champagne ardenne;a region of northeastern france
prussia;a former kingdom in north-central europe including present-day northern germany and northern poland. 'in the 19th century prussia led the economic and political unification of the german states'
turkestan;a historical region of central asia that was a center for trade between the east and the west
motown;the largest city in michigan and a major great lakes port. center of the united states automobile industry. located in southeastern michigan on the detroit river
casper;a city of east central wyoming on the north platte river
nanking;a city in eastern china on the yangtze river. a former capital of china. the scene of a japanese massacre in the 1930s
high;"a high place. 'they stood on high and observed the coutryside' or 'he doesn't like heights'"
byzantine empire;a continuation of the roman empire in the east
tacoma;a city of west central washington on an arm of puget sound south of seattle
funfair;a commercially operated park with stalls and shows for amusement
home farm;(british) a farm that supplies the needs of a large estate of establishment
temperate zone;the part of the earth's surface between the arctic circle and the tropic of cancer or between the antarctic circle and the tropic of capricorn. characterized by temperate climate
river basin;the entire geographical area drained by a river and its tributaries. 'flood control in the missouri basin'
root;"the place where something begins, where it springs into being. 'the italian beginning of the renaissance'. 'jupiter was the origin of the radiation'. 'pittsburgh is the source of the ohio river'. 'communism's russian root'"
locus;the scene of any event or action (especially the place of a meeting)
tangier;a city of northern morocco at the west end of the strait of gibraltar. 'the first tangerines were shipped from tangier to europe in 1841'
headspring;the source of water from which a stream arises. 'they tracked him back toward the head of the stream'
drop zone;an agreed area where military supplies are dropped to ground troops
newport;a resort city in southeastern rhode island. known for the summer homes of millionaires. important yachting center
south temperate zone;between the antarctic circle and the tropic of capricorn
ile de france;a region of north central france in the paris basin
grand duchy;the domain controlled by a grand duke or grand duchess
tucson;a city in southeastern arizona
wales;one of the four countries that make up the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland
naha city;the chief city in the syukyu islands
teeing ground;the starting place for each hole on a golf course
hunting ground;an area in which game is hunted
flower garden;a garden featuring flowering plants
genoa;a seaport in northwestern italy. provincial capital of liguria
geographic region;"a demarcated area of the earth"
origin;"the place where something begins, where it springs into being. 'the italian beginning of the renaissance'. 'jupiter was the origin of the radiation'. 'pittsburgh is the source of the ohio river'. 'communism's russian root'"
plot;a small area of planted ground. 'a cabbage patch'
medical center;the part of a city where medical facilities are centered
nineveh;an ancient assyrian city
inferno;"any place of pain and turmoil: 'the hell of battle'. 'the inferno of the engine room'. 'when you're alone christmas is the pits'."
bridgehead;a defensive post at the end of a bridge nearest to the enemy
yosemite national park;a national park in california famous for its waterfalls and rock formations
parking area;a lot where cars are parked
artist s workroom;a studio especially for an artist or designer
basle;a city in northwestern switzerland
range;a large tract of grassy open land on which livestock can graze. 'they used to drive the cattle across the open range every spring'. 'he dreamed of a home on the range'
oakland;a city in western california on san francisco bay opposite san francisco
field;a piece of land prepared for playing a game. 'the home crowd cheered when princeton took the field'
taxistand;a place where taxis park while awaiting customers
safety isle;an area in a roadway from which traffic is excluded. provides safe area for pedestrians
sheltered workshop;a workshop that offers low-skill jobs to members of the physically or developmentally disabled population
antarctic zone;the region around the south pole: antarctica and surrounding waters
pit;a coal mine and all the buildings and equipment connected with it
principality;territory ruled by a prince
urban center;a large and densely populated urban area. may include several independent administrative districts. 'ancient troy was a great city'
commodities exchange;an exchange for buying and selling commodities for future delivery
hong kong;a british crown colony on the coast of s china. leased by china to britain in 1842 and returned in 1997. one of the world's leading commercial centers
valparaiso;the chief port and second largest city of chile. located on a wide harbor in central chile
dust bowl;a region subject to dust storms. especially the central region of united states subject to dust storms in the 1930s
new hampshire;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
industrial park;a tract at a distance from city center that is designed for a community of businesses and factories
resort;an area where many people go for recreation
corse;a region of france on the island of corsica. birthplace of napoleon bonaparte
place;a general vicinity. 'he comes from a place near chicago'
aquitaine;a region of southwestern france between bordeaux and the pyrenees
tannery;place where skins and hides are tanned
leftfield;the part of the outfield on the catcher's left
job;a workplace. as in the expression 'on the job'
labrador;part of the province of newfoundland in the eastern part of the large labrador-ungava peninsula in northeastern canada
north;the region of the united states lying north of the mason-dixon line
birmingham;a city in central england. 2nd largest english city and an important industrial and transportation center
dubrovnik;a port city in southwestern croatia on the adriatic. a popular tourist center
waterworks;stores and purifies and distributes water for a community
puddle;"something resembling a pool of liquid. 'he stood in a pool of light'. 'his chair sat in a puddle of books and magazines'"
front;the line along which opposing armies face each other
namib desert;a desert in namibia between the high plateau and the atlantic ocean
donbass;an industrial region in the ukraine
arcadia;a department of greece in the central peloponnese
farming area;a rural area where farming is practiced
mecca;"a place that attracts many visitors. 'new york is a mecca for young artists'"
saddlery;the place where a saddler works
fairway;a tract of ground free of obstacles to movement
baltimore;the largest city in maryland. a major port and industrial center
base;"the place where you are stationed and from which missions start and end"
wilderness;a wild and uninhabited area
gujerat;a region of western india north of bombay (bordering the arabian sea) where gujarati is spoken
new jersey;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
ruhr;a major industrial and coal mining region in the valley of the ruhr river in northwestern germany
princedom;territory ruled by a prince
klondike;a region in northwestern canada where gold was discoveredin 1896 but exhausted by 1910
town;an urban area with a fixed boundary that is smaller than a city. 'they drive through town on their way to work'
open;a clear or unobstructed space or expanse of land or water: 'finally broke out of the forest into the open'
thule;the geographical region believed by ancient geographers to be the northernmost land in the inhabited world
space;an area reserved for some particular purpose. 'the laboratory's floor space'
exchange;a place for buying and selling. open only to members
kharkov;a city in northeastern ukraine. former capital of the ukraine
holy land;an ancient country is southwestern asia on the east coast of the mediterranean. a place of pilgrimage for christianity and islam and judaism
silesia;a region of central europe rich in deposits of coal and iron ore. annexed by prussia in 1742 but now largely in poland
south carolina;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
braunschweig;a city in central germany
venice;the provincial capital of veneto. built on 118 islands within a lagoon in the gulf of venice which is an arm of the adriatic. has canals instead of streets. one of italy's major ports and a famous tourist attraction
glade;a tract of land with few or no trees in the middle of a wooded area
jericho;a village in jordan near the north end of the dead sea. in the old testament it was the first place taken by the israelites under joshua as the entered the promised land
leeds;a city on the river aire in west yorkshire in northern england. a center of the clothing industry
patavium;a city in veneto
deep south;the southeastern region of the united states: south carolina and georgia and alabama and mississippi and louisiana. prior to the american civil war all these states produced cotton and permitted slavery
field;a geographic region (land or sea) under which something valuable is found. 'the diamond fields of south africa'
pittsburgh;a city in southwestern pennsylvania at the beginning of the ohio river. site of carnegie-mellon university and the university of pittsburgh
utica;an ancient city on the north coast of africa (northwest of carthage). destroyed by arabs around 700 ad
tegu;a city in southeastern south korea
tidal zone;an area subject to tidal action
toledo;a city in central spain on the tagus river. famous for steel and swords since the first century
fireside;an area near a fireplace (usually paved and extending out into a room)
elsass;a region of northeastern france famous for its wines
picardy;a region of northern france on the english channel
east;the region of the united states lying north of the ohio river and east of the mississippi river
broadcasting studio;where broadcasts originate
newcastle upon tyne;a port in northeastern england on the river tyne. a center for coal exports (giving rise to the expression 'carry coals to newcastle' meaning to do something unnecessary)
chappel hill;a town in central north carolina. site of the university of north carolina
kalahari;a desert in southwestern africa - largely botswana
assouan;an ancient city on the nile in egypt. site of the aswan high dam
centre;an area that is approximately central within some larger region. 'it is in the center of town'. 'they ran forward into the heart of the struggle'. 'they were in the eye of the storm'
beachhead;an area in hostile territory that has been occupied and is held for further troops and supplies
bandung;a city in indonesia. located on western java (southeast of jakarta). a resort known for its climate
winner s circle;a small area at a racecourse where awards are given to the owners of winning horses
mcburney s point;"a point one third of the way along a line drawn from the hip to the umbilicus. the point of maximum sensitivity in acute appendicitis"
lot;a parcel of land having fixed boundaries. 'he bought a lot on the lake'
clearing;a tract of land with few or no trees in the middle of a wooded area
tangiers;a city of northern morocco at the west end of the strait of gibraltar. 'the first tangerines were shipped from tangier to europe in 1841'
virginia;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
jerez de la frontera;a city in southwestern spain that is famous for making sherry
lumberyard;a place where lumber is stocked for sale
jumping off place;a place from which an enterprise or expedition is launched
shanghai;the largest city of china. located in the east on the pacific. one of the largest ports in the world
orleanais;a former province of north central france. centered around orleans
latin quarter;the region of paris on the s bank of the seine. a center of artistic and student life
nidaros;a port in central norway on trondheim fjord
coventry;an industrial city in central england. devastated by air raids during world war ii. remembered as the home of lady godiva in the 11th century
french indochina;the french colonies of cambodia and laos and vietnam were formerly organized as french indochina
acapulco;a fashionable resort city on mexico's pacific coast. known for beaches and water sports (including cliff diving)
oxford;a city in southern england northwest of london. site of oxford university
shenyang;a city in northeastern china
medium;the surrounding environment. 'fish require an aqueous medium'
lund;a city in southeastern sweden
safety;a safe place. 'he ran to safety'
bed;a plot of ground in which plants are growing. 'the gardener planted a bed of roses'
drill site;the site of a drill hole
ambiance;the atmosphere of an environment
playground;an area where many people go for recreation
hell on earth;"any place of pain and turmoil: 'the hell of battle'. 'the inferno of the engine room'. 'when you're alone christmas is the pits'."
shiraz;a city in central southwestern iran. ruins of ancient persepolis are nearby
settlement;an area where a group of families live together
andalucia;a region in southern spain on the atlantic and the mediterranean. formerly a center of moorish civilization
harbourage;a place of refuge (as for a ship)
tennis court;the court on which tennis is played
frankfurt;a german city. an industrial and commercial and financial center
rhineland;a picturesque region of germany around the rhine river
tract;an extended area of land
pompeii;ancient city southeast of naples that was buried by a volcanic eruption from vesuvius
southeast asia;a geographical division of asia that includes indochina plus indonesia and the philippines and singapore
luoyang;a city in east central china. the capital of ancient china during several dynasties
central america;the part of north america south of the united states
poitou charentes;a low-lying region of west central france on the bay of biscay
brunswick;a city in central germany
slezsko;a region of central europe rich in deposits of coal and iron ore. annexed by prussia in 1742 but now largely in poland
athletic field;a piece of land prepared for playing a game. 'the home crowd cheered when princeton took the field'
target;"the location of the target that is to be hit"
subdivision;an area composed of subdivided lots
limousin;a region of central france west of the auvergne mountains
dresden;a city in southeastern germany on the elbe river
kyoto;a city in central japan on s honshu. a famous cultural center that was once the capital of japan
corsica;a region of france on the island of corsica. birthplace of napoleon bonaparte
landmark;"the position of a prominent or well-known object in a particular landscape. 'the church steeple provided a convenient landmark'"
sodom;(old testament) an ancient city near the dead sea that (along with gomorrah) was destroyed by god for the wickedness of its inhabitants
derivation;the source from which something derives (i.e. comes or issues). 'he prefers shoes of italian derivation'
savanna;a flat grassland in tropical or subtropical regions
rostov on don;a seaport in the european part of russia
australian desert;general name given to all desert areas in australia
viscounty;the domain controlled by a viscount or viscountess
t ien ching;a major industrial center in northeastern china on the grand canal near the yellow sea. 3rd largest city in china
barony;the domain of a baron
transshipment center;a port where merchandise can be imported and re-exported with paying import duties
central park;a large park in manhattan
birmingham;the largest city in alabama. located in northeastern alabama
rice paddy;an irrigated or flooded field where rice is grown
muenchen;the capital and largest city of bavaria in southeastern germany
zomba;a city in s malawi. was the capital until 1971
nice;a city in southeastern france on the mediterranean. the leading resort on the french riviera
commons;a piece of open land for recreational use in an urban area. 'they went for a walk in the park'
outport;(british) a subsidiary port built in deeper water than the original port (but usually farther from the center of trade)
circus;an oval or circular area enclosed by tiers of seats and usually covered by a tent. 'they used the elephants to help put up the circus'
central city;the central part of a city
cleveland;the largest city in ohio. located in northeastern ohio on lake erie. a major great lakes port
northland;any region lying in or toward the north"any region lying in or toward the north"
park;a piece of open land for recreational use in an urban area. 'they went for a walk in the park'
versailles;a city in north central france near paris. site of the palace of versailles that was built by louis xiv in the 17th century
hinterland;a remote and undeveloped area
saint augustine;a resort in northeastern florida. the oldest city in the united states
solitude;"a solitary place"
cemetery;a tract of land used for burials
cloister;a courtyard with covered walks (as in religious institutions)
urban sprawl;an aggregation or continuous network of urban communities
corn exchange;a place where grains are bought and sold
alsatia;a region of northeastern france famous for its wines
mashhad;the holy city of shiite muslims. located in northeastern iran
parcel of land;an extended area of land
burg;colloquial american term for a town. 'i've lived in this burg all my life'
mine field;a tract of land containing explosive mines
ruhr valley;a major industrial and coal mining region in the valley of the ruhr river in northwestern germany
chungking;a city in south-central china on the yangtze river. a commercial center for western china
wurzburg;a city of south central germany
giza;an ancient egyptian city on the west bank of the nile opposite cairo. site of three great pyramids and the sphinx
south;"any region lying in or toward the south"
stratford upon avon;a town in central england on the river avon. birthplace (and burial place) of william shakespeare
field of battle;a region where a battle is being (or has been) fought. 'they made a tour of civil war battlefields'
aquila degli abruzzi;the provincial capital of the abruzzi region in central italy
sinai;a desert on the sinai peninsula in northeastern egypt
assyria;an ancient kingdom in northern mesopotamia
trondheim;a port in central norway on trondheim fjord
kingdom of god;the domain over which god is spiritually sovereign
great plains;a vast prairie region extending from alberta and saskatchewan and manitoba in canada south through the west central united states into texas. formerly inhabited by native americans
green;a piece of open land for recreational use in an urban area. 'they went for a walk in the park'
thessalia;a fertile plain on the aegean sea in east central greece. thessaly was a former region of ancient greece
refuge;a safe place. 'he ran to safety'
argos;an ancient city in southeastern greece. dominated the peloponnese in the 7th century bc
livonia;a region on the baltic that is divided between northern estonia and southern latvia
constantinople;the largest city and former capital of turkey. built on the site of ancient byzantium. seat of the eastern orthodox church
common;a piece of open land for recreational use in an urban area. 'they went for a walk in the park'
unknown region;"an unknown and unexplored region. 'they came like angels out the unknown'"
hindustan;northern region of india where hinduism predominates
hangout;a frequently visited place
pittsburgh of the south;the largest city in alabama. located in northeastern alabama
tulsa;a major city of northeastern oklahoma on the arkansas river
potter s field;a cemetery for unknown or indigent people
rendezvous;"a place where people meet. 'he was waiting for them at the rendezvous'"
muscovy;a russian principality in the 13th to 16th centuries. moscow was the capital
forecourt;the outer or front court of a building or of a group of buildings
portland;largest city in maine in the southwestern part of the state
seville;a city in southwestern spain. a major port and cultural center. the capital of bullfighting in spain
place;a public square with room for pedestrians. 'they met at elm plaza'. 'grosvenor place'
veld;elevated open grassland in southern africa
firebreak;a narrow field that has been cleared to check the spread of a prairie fire or forest fire
frontier;a wilderness at the edge of a settled area of a country. 'the individualism of the frontier in andrew jackson's day'
tiltyard;(formerly) an enclosed field for tilting contests
persepolis;an ancient city that was the capital of the persian empire. now in ruins
molotov;a city in the european part of russia
sao paulo;an ultramodern city in southeastern brazil. the largest city in south america
encampment;a site where people on holiday can pitch a tent
inner city;the older and more populated and (usually) poorer central section of a city
casablanca;a port on the atlantic and the largest city of morocco
coalfield;a region where there is coal underground
country;an area outside of cities and towns. 'his poetry celebrated the slower pace of life in the country'
miami;a city and resort in southeastern florida on biscayne bay. the best known city in florida
assuan;an ancient city on the nile in egypt. site of the aswan high dam
milan;the capital of lombardy in northern italy. has been an international center of trade and industry since the middle ages
new orleans;a port and largest city in louisiana. located in southeastern louisiana near the mouth of the mississippi river. jazz originated among black musicians in the late 19th century. mardi gras is celebrated here each year
scene of action;where sports events take place
karachi;the largest city in pakistan. located in southeastern pakistan. an industrial center and seaport on the arabian sea. former capital of pakistan
persian empire;an empire in s asia created by cyrus the great in the 6th century bc and destroyed by alexander the great in the 4th century bc
ironworks;the place where iron is smelted or where iron goods are made
observation post;an elevated post affording a wide view
financial center;the part of a city where financial institutions are centered
property;any area set aside for a particular purpose. 'who owns this place?'
buffalo;a city on lake erie in western new york (near niagara falls)
utrecht;a city in the central netherlands
tampa;a resort city in western florida. located on tampa bay on the gulf of mexico
martinique;an island in the eastern caribbean in the windward islands. administered as an overseas region of france
antarctic;the region around the south pole: antarctica and surrounding waters
milano;the capital of lombardy in northern italy. has been an international center of trade and industry since the middle ages
guiana;a geographical regin of northeastern south america including guyana and surinam
eitchen midden;(archeology) a mound of domestic refuse containing shells and animal bones marking the site of a prehistoric settlement
piazza;a public square with room for pedestrians. 'they met at elm plaza'. 'grosvenor place'
arena;the central area of an ancient roman amphitheater where contests and spectacles were held. especially a sand-strewn area
twin cities;nickname for saint paul and minneapolis
hotbed;a bed of earth covered with glass and heated by rotting manure to promote the growth of plants
durham;a city of north central north carolina. site of duke university
upper normandy;a division of normandy
wheeling;a city in the northern panhandle of west virginia on the ohio river
esthonia;a republic in northeastern europe on the baltic sea
cross section;a section created by a plane cutting a solid perpendicular to its longest axis
meadow;a field where grass or alfalfa are grown to be made into hay
leicester;an industrial city on the river soar in leicestershire in central england. built on the site of a roman settlement
focus;"a central point or locus of bacterial growth in an organism. 'the focus of infection'"
profile;a vertical section of the earth's crust showing the different horizons or layers
ghost town;a deserted town (especially in western united states)
stopover;a stopping place on a journey. 'there is a stopover to change planes in chicago'
stand;"the position where a thing or person stands"
surround;the area in which something exists or lives: 'the country--the flat agricultural surround'
bombay;a city in western india just off the coast of the arabian sea. india's 2nd largest city (after calcutta). has the only natural deep-water harbor in western india
pearl fishery;a place where they fish for pearl oysters
disk overhead;(computer science) the disk space required for non-data information (used for location and timing)
alsace;a region of northeastern france famous for its wines
scrapheap;an accumulation of refuse and discarded matter
nurnberg;a city in southeastern germany. site of allied trials of nazi war criminals (1945-46)
gaza strip;a coastal region at the southeastern corner of the mediterranean bordering israel and egypt
krakau;an industrial city in s poland on the vistula
sub saharan africa;the region of africa south of the sahara desert
earldom;the domain controlled by an earl or count or countess
creamery;a place where butter and cheese are made
minefield;a region in which explosives mines have been placed
battlefield;a region where a battle is being (or has been) fought. 'they made a tour of civil war battlefields'
bush;a large wilderness area
proving ground;a place for testing new equipment or ideas
fountainhead;the source of water from which a stream arises. 'they tracked him back toward the head of the stream'
croft;(great britain) a small farm worked by a crofter
yellowstone national park;the first national park in the united states. located in wyoming. famous for old faithful geyser and for buffalo and bears
southwest;the southwestern region of the united states
dropping zone;an agreed area where military supplies are dropped to ground troops
gomorrah;(old testament) an ancient city near the dead sea that (along with sodom) was destroyed by god for the vice and depravity of its inhabitants
line of battle;a line formed by troops or ships prepared to deliver or receive an attack
cincinnati;a city in s ohio on the ohio river
stock market;an exchange where security trading is conducted by professional stockbrokers
leipzig;a city in southeastern germany famous for fairs. formerly a music and publishing center
baltic state;european countries bordering the baltic sea
tel aviv jaffa;the largest city and financial center of israel. located in western israel on the mediterranean
market town;a (usually small) town where a public market is held at stated times
loading area;a stop where carriers can be loaded and unloaded
dusseldorf;an industrial city in western germany on the rhine
place;a space reserved for sitting (as in a theater or on a train or airplane). 'he booked their seats in advance'. 'he sat in someone else's place'
pays de la loire;an agricultural region of western france on the bay of biscay
pleasure ground;a commercially operated park with stalls and shows for amusement
st. john;a port in eastern canada. the largest city in new brunswick
eastern hemisphere;the hemisphere that includes eurasia and africa and australia
front yard;the grounds in front of a house. between the house and the street
back country;a remote and undeveloped area
memphis;an ancient city of egypt (s of cairo)
megalopolis;a very large urban complex (usually involving several cities and towns)
weimar;a german city near leipzig. scene of the adoption in 1919 of the constitution of the weimar republic that lasted until 1933
end;"one of two places from which people are communicating to each other. 'the phone rang at the other end' or 'both ends wrote at the same time'"
lair;the habitation of wild animals
eye;an area that is approximately central within some larger region. 'it is in the center of town'. 'they ran forward into the heart of the struggle'. 'they were in the eye of the storm'
front;the immediate proximity of someone or something. 'she blushed in his presence'. 'he sensed the presence of danger'. 'he was well behaved in front of company'
presence;the immediate proximity of someone or something. 'she blushed in his presence'. 'he sensed the presence of danger'. 'he was well behaved in front of company'
gorki;an industrial city in the european part of russia
albuquerque;the largest city in new mexico. located in central new mexico on the rio grande river
burial ground;a tract of land used for burials
pasadena;a city in southwestern california east of los angeles
right;the part of the outfield on the catcher's right
parking lot;a lot where cars are parked
venue;the scene of any event or action (especially the place of a meeting)
omaha;largest city in nebraska. located in eastern nebraska on the missouri river
market cross;a cross-shaped monument set up in the marketplace of a town where public business is often conducted
clear;a clear or unobstructed space or expanse of land or water: 'finally broke out of the forest into the open'
washhouse;a building or outbuilding where laundry is done
rostov;a seaport in the european part of russia
safety island;an area in a roadway from which traffic is excluded. provides safe area for pedestrians
edirne;a city in northwestern turkey. a thracian town that was rebuilt and renamed by the roman emperor hadrian
appalachia;an impoverished coal mining area in the appalachian mountains (from pennsylvania to north carolina)
overlook;"a high place affording a good view"
oilfield;a region rich in petroleum deposits (especially one with producing oil wells)
outside;"the region that is outside of something"
pitch;"(british) a vendor's position (especially on the sidewalk). 'he was employed to see that his paper's news pitches were not trespassed upon by rival vendors'"
corner;a remote area. 'in many corners of the world they still practice slavery'
court;a yard wholly or partly surrounded by walls or buildings. 'the house was built around an inner court'
istanbul;the largest city and former capital of turkey. built on the site of ancient byzantium. seat of the eastern orthodox church
desert;an arid region with little or no vegetation
adrianopolis;a city in northwestern turkey. a thracian town that was rebuilt and renamed by the roman emperor hadrian
rope yard;a long narrow path or shed where rope is made
saratoga springs;a town in eastern new york state famed for its spa and its horse racing
destination;"place where something (e.g., a journey or race) ends"
alep;a city in northwestern syria
gdansk;a city of northern poland near the mouth of the vistula
leningrad;a city in the european part of russia. 2nd largest russian city. located at the head of the gulf of finland on the neva river. former capital of russia
ayr;a port in southwestern scotland
stage;any scene regarded as a setting for exhibiting or doing something. 'all the world's a stage'--shakespeare. 'it set the stage for peaceful negotiations'
national park;a tract of land declared by the national government to be public property
princeton;a university town in central new jersey
target area;"the location of the target that is to be hit"
dude ranch;a holiday resort offering ranch activities (riding and camping)
orlando;a city in central florida
northeast;the northeastern region of the united states
weather station;one of a networks of observation posts where meteorological data is recorded
toll plaza;an area where tollbooths are located
chop shop;a place where stolen cars are disassembled for their parts
soweto;a large collection of african townships southwest of johannesburg in south africa. inhabited solely by black africans
see;the place within a bishop's diocese where his cathedral is located
sapporo;a japanese city on western hokkaido
great falls;a city in central montana on the missouri river. a center of extensive hydroelectric power
yalta;a resort city in s ukraine on the black sea. scene of the allied conference between churchill and stalin and roosevelt in 1945
new york;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
catchment basin;the geographical area draining into a river or reservoir
laconia;an ancient region of s greece in the southeastern peloponnesus. dominated by sparta
northwest;the northwestern region of the united states
samarcand;tamerlane's capital in the 14th century
treaty port;a port in china or korea or japan that once was open to foreign trade on the basis of a trading treaty
moorage;a place where a craft can be made fast
estonia;a republic in northeastern europe on the baltic sea
sioux falls;largest city in south dakota. located in southeastern south dakota
scandinavia;a group of culturally related countries in northern europe. finland and iceland are sometimes considered part of scandinavia
woodlet;a small cultivated wood without undergrowth
swansea;a port city in s wales on an inlet of the bristol channel
levant;the former name for the geographical area of the eastern mediterranean that is now occupied by lebanon and syria and israel
laundry;where clothes are washed and ironed
tel aviv;the largest city and financial center of israel. located in western israel on the mediterranean
ulster;a historic division of ireland located in the northeastern part of the island. six of ulster's nine counties are in northern ireland
urban area;a geographical area constituting a city or town
gujarat;a region of western india north of bombay (bordering the arabian sea) where gujarati is spoken
roanoke;a city in southwestern virginia
colony;one of the 13 british colonies that formed the original states of the united states
niagara falls;a city in western new york state at the falls of the niagara river. tourist attraction and honeymoon resort
garbage heap;an accumulation of refuse and discarded matter
san jose;a city in western california southeast of san francisco. a center for computer and electronics industries
camping ground;a site where people on holiday can pitch a tent
philadelphia;the largest city in pennsylvania. located in the southeastern part of the state on the delaware river. site of independence hall where the declaration of independence and the constitution were signed. site of the university of pennsylvania
flowerbed;a bed in which flowers are growing
telephone exchange;a telecommunications facility
lea;a field covered with grass or herbage and suitable for grazing by livestock
antofagasta;a port city on the pacific in northern chile
switchboard;telephone central where circuits are completed with patchcords
centre;a low-lying region in central france
badminton court;the court on which badminton is played
colliery;a coal mine and all the buildings and equipment connected with it
dye works;a shop where dyeing is done
bordeaux;a port city in southwestern france. a major center of the wine trade
pusan;a city in southeastern south korea on the korean strait. the chief port and second largest city
unknown;"an unknown and unexplored region. 'they came like angels out the unknown'"
cordova;a city in southern spain. center of moorish culture
papeete;the capital of french polynesia on the northwestern coast of tahiti
toxic waste site;a location where toxic wastes have been disposed of (often illegally)
neighbourhood;a surrounding or nearby region. 'the plane crashed in the vicinty of asheville'. 'it is a rugged locality'. 'he always blames someone else in the immediate neighborhood'
hemisphere;half of the terrestrial globe
test bed;a place equipped with instruments etc for testing engines a machinery under working conditions
lusitania;ancient region and roman province of the iberian peninsula. corresponds roughly to modern portugal and parts of spain
heathland;(british) a tract of level wasteland. uncultivated land with sandy soil and scrubby vegetation
burial site;a tract of land used for burials
country;"a particular geographical region of indefinite boundary (usually serving some special purpose or distinguished by its people or culture or geography). 'it was a mountainous area'. 'bible country'"
tulip bed;a flower bed in which tulips are growing
backwoods;a remote and undeveloped area
sewage farm;a farm that is irrigated and fertilized with raw sewage
vacant lot;a lot on which there are no permanent buildings
handball court;the court on which handball is played
babylonia;an ancient kingdom in southern mesopotamia. babylonia conquered israel in the 6th century bc and exiled the jews to babylon (where the prophet daniel became a counselor to the king)
new york stock exchange;a stock exchange in new york
dairy;a farm where dairy products are produced
memphis;largest city of tennessee. located in southwestern tennessee on the mississippi river
stud farm;a farm where horses are bred
cote d azur;the french part of the riviera
genova;a seaport in northwestern italy. provincial capital of liguria
here;"the present location. this place. 'where do we go from here?'"
cambridge;a city in eastern england on the river cam. site of cambridge university
cabstand;a place where taxis park while awaiting customers
barren;an uninhabited wilderness that is worthless for cultivation. 'the barrens of central africa'. 'the trackless wastes of the desert'
farmstead;a farm together with its buildings
disc space;(computer science) the space available on a magnetic disk
tropics;the part of the earth's surface between the tropics of cancer and capricorn. characterized by a hot climate
anchorage;a city in south central alaska. 'anchorage is the largest city in alaska'
pernambuco;a city of northeastern brazil on the atlantic
roman empire;the lands in europe and africa and asia that were ruled by ancient rome
naval shipyard;a military shipyard
moukden;a city in northeastern china
toxic waste dump;a location where toxic wastes have been disposed of (often illegally)
punjab;a historical region on northwestern india and northern pakistan
realm;the domain ruled by a king or queen
park;a large area of land preserved in its natural state as public property. 'there are laws that protect the wildlife in this park'
aswan;an ancient city on the nile in egypt. site of the aswan high dam
empire;the domain ruled by an emperor or empress
rookery;a breeding ground for gregarious birds (such as rooks)
city block;a rectangular area in a city surrounded by streets and usually containing several buildings. 'he lives in the next block'
dixie;the 11 southern states that seceded from the united states in 1861
sheet;any broad thin expanse or surface: 'a sheet of ice'
utica;a city in central new york
guadalajara;a city in southwestern mexico. a popular health resort and site of architecture from the spanish colonial era
sanctum;a place of inviolable privacy
goteborg;a port in southwestern sweden. second largest city in sweden
graveyard;a tract of land used for burials
holy place;"a sacred place of pilgrimage"
chernobyl;a city in north central ukraine. site of a major disaster at a nuclear power plant (16 april 1986)
centrex;central exchange
refuse heap;a piece of land where waste materials are dumped
junk heap;an accumulation of refuse and discarded matter
battleground;a region where a battle is being (or has been) fought. 'they made a tour of civil war battlefields'
thorshavn;the administrative center of the faroe islands
san juan;the capital and largest city of puerto rico
beginning;"the place where something begins, where it springs into being. 'the italian beginning of the renaissance'. 'jupiter was the origin of the radiation'. 'pittsburgh is the source of the ohio river'. 'communism's russian root'"
mayenne;a department of northwestern france in the pays de la loire region
cradle;where something originated or was nurtured in its early existence. 'the birthplace of civilization'
biology laboratory;a laboratory for biological research
holy see;the see of the pope (as the bishop of rome)
oasis;a fertile tract in a desert (where the water table approaches the surface)
egypt;an ancient empire west of israel. centered on the nile river and ruled by a pharaoh. figured in many events described in the old testament
line;a fortified position (especially one marking the most forward position of troops). 'they attacked the enemy's line'
bologna;the capital of emilia-romagna. located in northern italy east of the apennines
patchboard;telephone central where circuits are completed with patchcords
poitou;a low-lying region of west central france on the bay of biscay
meteorological observation post;one of a networks of observation posts where meteorological data is recorded
battle line;the line along which warring troops meet
delaware;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
schlesien;a region of central europe rich in deposits of coal and iron ore. annexed by prussia in 1742 but now largely in poland
atelier;a studio especially for an artist or designer
boondocks;a remote and undeveloped area
heights;"a high place. 'they stood on high and observed the coutryside' or 'he doesn't like heights'"
sumer;an area in the southern region of babylonia. site of the sumerian civilization of city-states that flowered during the third millennium bc
omdurman;the largest city of sudan. located in the central sudan on the white nile opposite khartoum
pesthole;a breeding ground for epidemic disease
fairground;an open area for holding fairs or exhibitions or circuses
launching site;a place for launching pads
punta arenas;a city in s chile on the strait of magellan. the southernmost city in the world
serbia;a historical region in eastern yugoslavia. serbs settled the region in the 6th and 7th centuries
northern europe;the northernmost countries of europe
massachusetts;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
reno;a city in western nevada at the foot of the sierra nevada mountains. known for gambling casinos and easy divorce and remarriage
gasfield;a region where there is natural gas underground
proximity;the region close around a person or thing
san francisco;a port in western california. has one of the world's finest harbors. site of the golden gate bridge
trash pile;an accumulation of refuse and discarded matter
viewpoint;a place from which something can be viewed. 'from that vantage point he could survey the whole valley'
garden;a yard or lawn adjoining a house
lyonnais;a former province of east central france. now administered by rhone-alpes
station;"the position where something or someone (as a guard or sentry) stands or is assigned to stand: 'a sentry station'"
bayonne;a city in northeastern new jersey
securities market;an exchange where security trading is conducted by professional stockbrokers
cartagena;a port in southeastern spain on the mediterranean
workshop;small establishment where handcrafts or manufacturing are done
patagonia;region in s south america between the andes and the south atlantic
syracuse;a city in central new york
middle east;the area around the eastern mediterranean. from turkey to north africa and eastward to iran. the site of such ancient civilizations as phoenicia and babylon and egypt and the birthplace of judaism and christianity and islam. 'the middle east is the cradle of western civilization'
saint petersburg;a city in western florida on tampa bay. a popular winter resort
newport;a port city in southeastern wales
mecca;a city in western saudi arabia. as the birthplace of mohammed it is the holiest city of islam
hayfield;a field where grass or alfalfa are grown to be made into hay
whereabouts;"the general location where something is. 'i questioned him about his whereabouts on the night of the crime'"
home;"the country or state or city where you live. 'canadian tariffs enabled united states lumber companies to raise prices at home'. 'his home is new jersey'"
position;"a point occupied by troops for tactical reasons"
outskirts;outlying areas (as of a city or town). 'they lived on the outskirts of houston' or 'they mingled in the outskirts of the crowd'
fayetteville;a city in northwestern arkansas. site of the university of arkansas
cologne;a commercial center in western germany on the rhine river
truck farm;a farm where vegetables are grown for market
toledo;an industrial city in northwestern ohio on lake erie
maharashtra;a historical area in west-central india
leyden;a city in the western netherlands. residence of the pilgrim fathers for 11 years before they sailed for america in 1620
kaunas;a city in central lithuania
lithuania;a republic in northeastern europe on the baltic sea
negev;a desert in s israel
bourse;the stock exchange in paris
stalingrad;a city in the european part of russia on the volga. site of german defeat in world war ii in the winter of 1942-43
boom town;a town enjoying sudden prosperity
lawn;a field of cultivated and mowed grass
danger zone;a dangerous area
oaxaca de juarez;a city of southeastern mexico. the provincial capital of the state of oaxaca. inhabited chiefly by indians
syracuse;a city in southeastern sicily that was founded by corinthians in the 8th century bc
launderette;a laundry where coin-operated washing machines are available to individual customers
overhead;(computer science) the disk space required for non-data information (used for location and timing)
municipality;an urban district having corporate status and powers of self-government
haven;a place where ships can take on or discharge cargo
sandlot;a vacant lot used by city boys to play games
studio;a room or building where movies or television shows or radio programs are produced and recorded
oxford;any of numerous towns and cities in the united states. especially oxford, mississippi, home of william faulkner and seat of the university of mississippi
hub;the center of a city
lyon;a city in east-central france on the rhone river. a principal producer of silk and rayon
armageddon;(new testament) the scene of the final battle between the kings of the earth at the end of the world
forbidden city;a walled section of beijing that encloses the imperial palace that was formerly the residence of the emperor of china
roadstead;a partly sheltered anchorage
atacama desert;a desert in northern chile rich in nitrate and copper deposits
mukden;a city in northeastern china
russia;a former empire in eastern europe and northern asia. powerful in 17-18th centuries under peter the great and catherine the great. overthrown by revolution in 1917
gomorrha;(old testament) an ancient city near the dead sea that (along with sodom) was destroyed by god for the vice and depravity of its inhabitants
stop;"a spot where something halts or pauses. 'his next stop is atlanta'"
cadiz;a port in southwestern spain
victory garden;a vegetable garden planted during wartime to relieve food shortages
campground;a site where people on holiday can pitch a tent
firing line;the line from which soldiers deliver fire
maryland;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
setting;the context and environment in which something is set: 'the perfect setting for a ghost story'
tara;a village in eastern ireland (northwest of dublin). seat of irish kings until 6th century
dalmatia;a historical region of croatia on the adriatic sea. mountainous with many islands
houston;the largest city in texas. located in southeastern texas near the gulf of mexico. site of the national aeronautics and space administration
corinth;the modern city is near the cite of the ancient city that was 2nd only to athens
hop field;a garden where hops are grown
egyptian empire;an ancient empire west of israel. centered on the nile river and ruled by a pharaoh. figured in many events described in the old testament
arctic;the regions north of the arctic circle centered on the north pole
farm;farm buildings and cultivated land as a unit. 'it takes several people to work the farm'
merida;the capital of the mexican state of yucatan
yard;an area having a network of railway tracks and sidings for storage and maintenance of cars and engines
shop;small establishment where handcrafts or manufacturing are done
ultima thule;the geographical region believed by ancient geographers to be the northernmost land in the inhabited world
atrium;the central area in a building. open to the sky
asparagus bed;a bed in which asparagus is growing
soudan;a region of north africa south of the sahara and libyan deserts. extends from the atlantic to the red sea
vineyard;a plantation of grapevines where wine grapes are produced
gascogne;a region of southwestern france
herb garden;a garden for growing herbs
portland;largest city in oregon. located in northwestern oregon
meshed;the holy city of shiite muslims. located in northeastern iran
srbija;a historical region in eastern yugoslavia. serbs settled the region in the 6th and 7th centuries
wasteland;an uninhabited wilderness that is worthless for cultivation. 'the barrens of central africa'. 'the trackless wastes of the desert'
fengtien;a city in northeastern china
basse normandie;a division of normandy
tee;the starting place for each hole on a golf course
bennington;a city in southwestern vermont
mohave desert;a desert area in southern california
mongolia;a vast region in asia including the mongolian people's republic and china's inner mongolia
fresno;a city in south central california. center of an important agricultural area
municipal center;the center of a city
ann arbor;a city in s michigan near detroit. site of the university of michigan
milwaukee;largest city of wisconsin. located in southeastern wisconsin on lake michigan. known for its breweries
bowling green;a field of closely mowed turf for playing bowls
illyria;an uncertain region on the east shore of the adriatic where an ancient indo-european people once lived
florence;a city in central italy on the arno river. provincial capital of tuscany. center of the italian renaissance from 14th to 16th centuries
melting pot;an environment in which many ideas and races are socially assimilated
rubbish heap;an accumulation of refuse and discarded matter
midden;(archeology) a mound of domestic refuse containing shells and animal bones marking the site of a prehistoric settlement
oran;a port in northwestern algeria and the country's 2nd largest city
mobile;a port in southwestern alabama on mobile bay
marseilles;a city in southeastern france on the mediterranean. the 2nd largest french city and an important seaport
rockery;a garden featuring rocks. usually alpine plants
distance;"a distant region. 'i could see it in the distance'"
cuidad bolivar;a port in eastern venezuela on the orinoco river
sector;a portion of a military position
saratov;an industrial city in the european part of russia
newcastle;a port in northeastern england on the river tyne. a center for coal exports (giving rise to the expression 'carry coals to newcastle' meaning to do something unnecessary)
bindery;a place where books are bound
saint john;a port in eastern canada. the largest city in new brunswick
volleyball court;the court on which volleyball is played
gascony;a region of southwestern france
phenicia;an ancient maritime country (a collection of city states) at eastern end of the mediterranean
neighborhood;a surrounding or nearby region. 'the plane crashed in the vicinty of asheville'. 'it is a rugged locality'. 'he always blames someone else in the immediate neighborhood'
berkeley;a city in california on the eastern shore of san francisco bay. site of the university of california at berkeley
terra incognita;"an unknown and unexplored region. 'they came like angels out the unknown'"
slip;a place where a craft can be made fast
hangzhou;a city of eastern china on hangzhou bay (an inlet of the east china sea). regarded by marco polo as the finest city in the world
corner;a place off to the side of an area. 'he tripled to the rightfield corner'. 'he glanced out of the corner of his eye'
nidus;"a central point or locus of bacterial growth in an organism. 'the focus of infection'"
montreal;a city in southern quebec province on the saint lawrence river. the largest city in quebec and 2nd largest in canada. the 2nd largest french-speaking city in the world
ropewalk;a long narrow path or shed where rope is made
new haven;a city in southwestern connecticut. site of yale university
amusement park;a commercially operated park with stalls and shows for amusement
cattle ranch;a large tract of land along with facilities needed to raise livestock (especially cattle)
swap file;the disk space that is set aside for virtual memory
hiding place;"a place suitable for hiding something (such as yourself)"
western hemisphere;the hemisphere that includes north and south america
panhandle;a relatively narrow strip of land projecting from some larger area. 'wheeling is located in the northern panhandle of west virginia'
out of doors;where the air is unconfined. 'he wanted to get out in the air a little'. 'the concert was held in the open air'. 'camping in the open'
camp;a site where care and activities are provided for children during the summer months. 'city kids get to see the country at a summer camp'
mandalay;a city in central myanmar north of rangoon
heath;(british) a tract of level wasteland. uncultivated land with sandy soil and scrubby vegetation
black africa;the region of africa south of the sahara desert
courtyard;a yard wholly or partly surrounded by walls or buildings. 'the house was built around an inner court'
beehive;any workplace where people are very busy
market garden;a garden where fruit and vegetables are grown for marketing
west country;the southwest of england (including cornwall and devon and somerset)
donbas;an industrial region in the ukraine
parade ground;an area for holding parades
odessa;a city of south central ukraine
gulf states;a region of the united states comprising states bordering the gulf of mexico. alabama and florida and louisiana and mississippi and texas
wellspring;the source of water for a well
topiary;a garden having shrubs clipped or trimmed into decorative shapes especially of animals
checkpoint;a place (as at a frontier) where travellers are stopped for inspection and clearance
side yard;the grounds at either side of a house
field;a region where a battle is being (or has been) fought. 'they made a tour of civil war battlefields'
loading zone;a stop where carriers can be loaded and unloaded
libyan desert;the eastern part of the sahara desert
nuernberg;a city in southeastern germany. site of allied trials of nazi war criminals (1945-46)
home territory;the area in which an animal normally ranges
nizhni novgorod;an industrial city in the european part of russia
pampas;the vast grassy plains of northern argentina
green;an area of closely cropped grass surrounding the hole on a golf course
danzig;a city of northern poland near the mouth of the vistula
sheeprun;(british) property devoted to raising sheep
waste;an uninhabited wilderness that is worthless for cultivation. 'the barrens of central africa'. 'the trackless wastes of the desert'
frankfurt on the main;a german city. an industrial and commercial and financial center
caucasia;a large region between the black and caspian seas. oil is its major resource
wold;a tract of open rolling country (especially upland)
hideaway;a hiding place. usually a remote place used by outlaws
sinai desert;a desert on the sinai peninsula in northeastern egypt
babylon;the chief city of ancient mesopotamia and capitol of the ancient kingdom of babylonia
las vegas;largest city in nevada. located in southeastern nevada. famous for entertainment and gambling
smithy;a workplace where metal is worked by heating and hammering
grange;an outlying farm
akron;a city in northeastern ohio. the heart of the united states rubber industry
source;"the place where something begins, where it springs into being. 'the italian beginning of the renaissance'. 'jupiter was the origin of the radiation'. 'pittsburgh is the source of the ohio river'. 'communism's russian root'"
habitation;the native habitat or home of an animal or plant
swap space;the disk space that is set aside for virtual memory
naples;a port and tourist center in southwestern italy. capital of the campania region
landscape;an expanse of scenery that can be seen in a single view
cedar rapids;a city in eastern iowa
pastureland;a field covered with grass or herbage and suitable for grazing by livestock
bivouac;a site where people on holiday can pitch a tent
harborage;a place of refuge (as for a ship)
city of bridges;a city in northwestern belgium in west flanders province. connected by canal to the north sea. the old city is a popular tourist attraction
tripoli;a port in northern lebanon on the mediterranean
playground;an outdoor area for children's play
persia;an empire in s asia created by cyrus the great in the 6th century bc and destroyed by alexander the great in the 4th century bc
machine shop;where metal is cut and shaped etc., by machine tools
basin;the entire geographical area drained by a river and its tributaries. 'flood control in the missouri basin'
hamilton;a city in southeastern ontario at the west end of lake ontario
los angeles;a city in southern california. most populous city of california
charleston;a port city in southeastern south carolina
dig;the site of an archeological exploration. 'they set up camp next to the dig'
connecticut;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
hamilton;the capital of bermuda
yafo;a port in western israel on the mediterranean. incorporated into tel aviv in 1950
sioux city;a city in northeastern iowa
alexandria;the chief port of egypt. located where the nile river empties into the mediterranean sea. founded by alexander the great. the capital of ancient egypt
el iskandariyah;the chief port of egypt. located where the nile river empties into the mediterranean sea. founded by alexander the great. the capital of ancient egypt
home range;the area in which an animal normally ranges
rose bed;a flower bed in which roses are growing
demesne;"territory over which rule or control is exercised. 'his domain extended into europe'. 'he made it the law of the land'"
work;"a place where work is done. 'he arrived at work early today'"
rheinland;a picturesque region of germany around the rhine river
gorky;an industrial city in the european part of russia
billings;the largest city in montana. located in s montana on the yellowstone river
center;an area that is approximately central within some larger region. 'it is in the center of town'. 'they ran forward into the heart of the struggle'. 'they were in the eye of the storm'
zaragoza;an ancient city in northeastern spain. formerly the capital of aragon
lancaster;a city in northwestern england
burgundy;a former province of eastern france that is famous for its wines
adrianople;a city in northwestern turkey. a thracian town that was rebuilt and renamed by the roman emperor hadrian
auvergne;a region in central france
painted desert;a desert on a high plateau in northeastern arizona
xian;a city of central china. capital of ancient chinese empire 221-206 bc
section;a distinct region or subdivision of a territorial or political area or community or group of people. 'no section of the nation is more ardent than the south'. 'there are three synagogues in the jewish section'
workplace;"a place where work is done. 'he arrived at work early today'"
st. augustine;a resort in northeastern florida. the oldest city in the united states
malmo;a port in s sweden
selma;a city in central alabama on the alabama river. in 1965 it was the center of a drive to register black voters
midwest;the north central region of the united states
time zone;any of the 24 regions of the globe (loosely divided by longitude) throughout which the same standard time is used
fargo;largest city in north dakota. located in eastern north dakota on the red river
south frigid zone;the region around the south pole: antarctica and surrounding waters
down town;the center of a city
place of birth;"the place where someone was born"
maritimes;the collective name for the canadian provinces of new brunswick and nova scotia and prince edward island
port of call;any port where a ship stops except its home port
left bank;the region of paris on the s bank of the seine. a center of artistic and student life
delhi;a city in north-central india
thrace;a region and ancient country in the east of the balkan peninsula north of the aegean sea. colonized by ancient greeks. later a roman province. now divided between greece and turkey
headwaters;the source of a river. 'the headwaters of the nile'
rustbelt;urban areas in new england and middle west characterized by concentrations of declining industries (steel or textiles)
coaling station;a seaport where ships can take on supplies of coal
topographic point;a point located with respect to surface features of some region. 'this is a nice place for a picnic'
island;a zone or area resembling an island
lodz;a large city of central poland
geneve;a city in southwestern switzerland at the western end of lake geneva. the palace of nations originally housed the league of nations and is now the european headquarters for the united nations
paddy field;an irrigated or flooded field where rice is grown
excavation;the site of an archeological exploration. 'they set up camp next to the dig'
drainage basin;the geographical area draining into a river or reservoir
harbor;a place where ships can take on or discharge cargo
centre;a place where some particular activity is concentrated. 'they received messages from several centers'
heart;an area that is approximately central within some larger region. 'it is in the center of town'. 'they ran forward into the heart of the struggle'. 'they were in the eye of the storm'
hull;a large fishing port
mojave desert;a desert area in southern california
ilion;an ancient city in asia minor that was the site of the trojan war
free zone;an area adjoining a port where goods that are intended for reshipment can be received and stored without payment of duties
taegu;a city in southeastern south korea
canaan;an ancient country is southwestern asia on the east coast of the mediterranean. a place of pilgrimage for christianity and islam and judaism
area;"a particular geographical region of indefinite boundary (usually serving some special purpose or distinguished by its people or culture or geography). 'it was a mountainous area'. 'bible country'"
beckley;a city in southern west virginia
gateway to the west;the largest city in missouri. was an important staging area for wagon trains westward in the 19th century
rightfield;the part of the outfield on the catcher's right
hatchery;a place where eggs are hatched under artificial conditions (especially fish eggs). 'the park authorities operated a trout hatchery'
slask;a region of central europe rich in deposits of coal and iron ore. annexed by prussia in 1742 but now largely in poland
anvers;a port in northern belgium on the scheldt river
anchorage ground;place for vessels to anchor
lynchburg;a city in central virginia
catchment area;the geographical area draining into a river or reservoir
bloemfontein;the seat of the supreme court
stalino;an industrial city in the donets basin
manchuria;a region in northeastern china
vegetable patch;a small garden where vegetables are grown
workspace;space allocated for your work (as in an office)
taichung;a city in taiwan
zone;a circumscribed geographical region characterized by some distinctive features
cannes;a port and resort city on the french riviera. site of an annual film festival
slack;a stretch of water without current or movement. 'suddenly they were in slack water'
southeast;the southeastern region of the united states
hop garden;a garden where hops are grown
turkistan;a historical region of central asia that was a center for trade between the east and the west
left;the part of the outfield on the catcher's left
stamboul;the largest city and former capital of turkey. built on the site of ancient byzantium. seat of the eastern orthodox church
subtopia;(brit) monotonous urban sprawl of standardized buildings
morgantown;a city in northern west virginia on the monongahela river near the pennsylvania border. site of the university of west virginia
kitakyushu;a japanese city on northern kyushu
military position;"a point occupied by troops for tactical reasons"
right bank;the region of paris on the north bank of the seine
septentrion;any region lying in or toward the north"any region lying in or toward the north"
birthplace;where something originated or was nurtured in its early existence. 'the birthplace of civilization'
fort worth;a city in northern texas
orient;the hemisphere that includes eurasia and africa and australia
torrid zone;the part of the earth's surface between the tropics of cancer and capricorn. characterized by a hot climate
indochina;a region of southeastern asia that includes burma and cambodia and laos and malaysia and thailand and vietnam
chelyabinsk;a city in the asian part of russia
rural area;an area outside of cities and towns. 'his poetry celebrated the slower pace of life in the country'
monument;an important site that is marked and preserved as public property
big sur;a picturesque coastal region of california south of san francisco
geographic area;"a demarcated area of the earth"
seattle;largest city in washington. located in west central washington. a major port of entry
joppa;a port in western israel on the mediterranean. incorporated into tel aviv in 1950
sakkara;a town in northern egypt. site of the oldest egyptian pyramids (the step pyramid)
firenze;a city in central italy on the arno river. provincial capital of tuscany. center of the italian renaissance from 14th to 16th centuries
farmplace;a farm together with its buildings
north frigid zone;the regions north of the arctic circle centered on the north pole
aberdeen;a city in northeastern scotland on the north sea
polling station;"a place where voters go to cast their votes in an election"
piscary;a place where fish are caught and processed and sold
bale;a city in northwestern switzerland
harbour;a place where ships can take on or discharge cargo
san antonio;a city of south central texas. site of the alamo
seaport;a place where ships can take on or discharge cargo
gothenburg;a port in southwestern sweden. second largest city in sweden
semidesert;a region much like a desert but usually located between a desert and the surrounding regions
terrain;a piece of ground having specific characteristics or military potential. 'they decided to attack across the rocky terrain'
new york city;the largest city in new york state. located in southeastern new york at the mouth of the hudson river. a major financial and cultural center
silicon valley;a region in california south of san francisco that is noted for its concentration of high-technology industries
chemistry laboratory;a laboratory for research in chemistry
parts;the local environment. 'he hasn't been seen around these parts in years'
bridgeport;a port in southwestern connecticut on long island sound
zone;"an area or region distinguished from adjacent parts by a distinctive feature or characteristic"
lappland;a region in northmost europe inhabited by lapps
land site;"the piece of land on which something is located (or is to be located): 'a good site for the school'"
thuringia;a historical region of s germany
gallia;an ancient region of western europe that included northern italy and france and belgium and part of germany and the netherlands
turnery;where objects are made on a lathe
preussen;a former kingdom in north-central europe including present-day northern germany and northern poland. 'in the 19th century prussia led the economic and political unification of the german states'
loyang;a city in east central china. the capital of ancient china during several dynasties
sheikdom;the domain ruled by a sheik
natal;a port in northeastern brazil
short;the location on a baseball field where the shortstop is stationed
turnip bed;a bed in which turnips are growing
haute normandie;a division of normandy
geneva;a city in southwestern switzerland at the western end of lake geneva. the palace of nations originally housed the league of nations and is now the european headquarters for the united nations
mesopotamia;the land between the tigris and euphrates. site of several ancient civilizations
schoolyard;the yard associated with a school
phrygia;an ancient country in west central asia minor
junk pile;an accumulation of refuse and discarded matter
conurbation;an aggregation or continuous network of urban communities
lanzhou;the capital city of the chinese province of gansu on the yellow river
saxe;an area in germany around the upper elbe river
picnic ground;a tract of land set aside for picnicking
birthplace;"the place where someone was born"
padua;a city in veneto
vantage;"place or situation affording some advantage (especially a comprehensive view or commanding perspective)"
sunken garden;a garden set below the level of the ground surrounding it
banff;a popular vacation spot in the canadian rockies
petrograd;a city in the european part of russia. 2nd largest russian city. located at the head of the gulf of finland on the neva river. former capital of russia
rio;the former capital and 2nd largest city of brazil. famous as a tourist attraction
sahara desert;the world's largest desert (3,500,000 square miles) in north africa
parkersburg;a city in northwestern west virginia on the ohio river
lyons;a city in east-central france on the rhone river. a principal producer of silk and rayon
trash heap;an accumulation of refuse and discarded matter
spa;a health resort near a spring or at the seaside
station;"(navy) the location to which a ship or fleet is assigned for duty"
johannesburg;the largest city in south africa. located in northeastern part of the country. commercial center for diamond and gold industries
outdoors;where the air is unconfined. 'he wanted to get out in the air a little'. 'the concert was held in the open air'. 'camping in the open'
pango pango;a port in american samoa
bergen;a port in southwestern norway
monte carlo;a town and popular resort in the principality of monaco. world-famous for its gambling casino
new york;the largest city in new york state. located in southeastern new york at the mouth of the hudson river. a major financial and cultural center
over the counter market;a market where securities transactions are made via phone and computer rather than on the floor of an exchange
parcel;an extended area of land
tientsin;a major industrial center in northeastern china on the grand canal near the yellow sea. 3rd largest city in china
juarez;a city in northern mexico on the rio grande opposite el paso
hamburg;a city in northern germany on the elbe river
north temperate zone;between the arctic circle and the tropic of cancer
vinery;a plantation of grapevines where wine grapes are produced
quadrant;any of the four areas into which a plane is divided by two orthogonal coordinate axes
aery;any habitation at a high altitude
pisa;a city in tuscany. site of the famous leaning tower
drop;a predetermined hiding place for the deposit and distribution of illicit goods (such as drugs or stolen property)
scenery;the appearance of a place
plugboard;telephone central where circuits are completed with patchcords
dukedom;the domain controlled by a duke or duchess
palo alto;a university town in california
paddy;an irrigated or flooded field where rice is grown
piece of land;an extended area of land
caucasus;a large region between the black and caspian seas. oil is its major resource
el paso;a city in western texas on the mexican border. located on the rio grande river opposite the mexican city of ciudad juarez
sheikhdom;the domain ruled by a sheik
nuremburg;a city in southeastern germany. site of allied trials of nazi war criminals (1945-46)
torino;capital city of the piemonte region of northwestern italy
sudan;a region of north africa south of the sahara and libyan deserts. extends from the atlantic to the red sea
cambridge;a city in massachusetts just north of boston. site of harvard university and the massachusetts institute of technology
haifa;a port in northwestern israel on the bay of acre
marchland;the area on either side of a border or boundary
nord pas de calais;a region in northeastern france
vancouver;an island city in southwestern british columbia on an arm of the pacific ocean. canada's chief pacific port and third largest city
oaxaca;a city of southeastern mexico. the provincial capital of the state of oaxaca. inhabited chiefly by indians
railway yard;an area having a network of railway tracks and sidings for storage and maintenance of cars and engines
bethelem;a small town near jerusalem on the west bank of the jordan river where jesus was born
exchange;a telecommunications facility
haunt;a frequently visited place
metropolis;a large and densely populated urban area. may include several independent administrative districts. 'ancient troy was a great city'
position;"the appropriate or customary location. 'the cars were in position'"
post;"the position where something or someone (as a guard or sentry) stands or is assigned to stand: 'a sentry station'"
piece of ground;an extended area of land
maritime provinces;the collective name for the canadian provinces of new brunswick and nova scotia and prince edward island
koln;a commercial center in western germany on the rhine river
bus stop;a place on a bus route where buses stop to discharge and take on passengers
day camp;a camp providing care and activities for children during the daytime
veldt;elevated open grassland in southern africa
bedground;an area on which a drove of cattle or sheep can sleep for a night
newark;the largest city in new jersey. located in northeastern new jersey
section;(geometry) the area created by a plane cutting through a solid
aleppo;a city in northwestern syria
new england;a region of northeastern united states comprising maine and new hampshire and vermont and massachusetts and rhode island and connecticut
gasworks;the place where coal gas is manufactured
aquitania;a region of southwestern france between bordeaux and the pyrenees
blackpool;a resort town in lancashire in northwestern england on the irish sea. famous for its tower
habitat;the type of environment in which an organism or group normally lives or occurs: 'a marine habitat'
kitchen garden;a small garden where vegetables are grown
wild;a wild and uninhabited area
pennsylvania;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
french riviera;the french part of the riviera
saigon;a city in s vietnam. formerly (as saigon) it was the capital of french indochina
epicenter;"the point on the earth's surface directly above the focus of an earthquake"
midfield;the middle part of a playing field (as in football or lacrosse)
churchyard;the yard associated with a church
independence;a city in western missouri. the beginning of the santa fe trail
seedbed;a plot of ground where seedlings are grown before transplanting
baseball diamond;the area of a baseball field that is enclosed by 3 bases and home plate
antwerp;a port in northern belgium on the scheldt river
ambience;the atmosphere of an environment
glasgow;largest city in scotland. a port in west central scotland. one of the great shipbuilding centers of the world
american stock exchange;a stock exchange in new york
valdez;a port on alaska's southern coast from which oil is shipped to markets around the world
calgary;a city is s alberta. center of a large agricultural region
luxor;a city in central egypt on the east bank of the nile. site of the temple of luxor
mud flat;a tract of low muddy land near an estuary. covered at high tide and exposed at low tide
fayetteville;a town in central west virginia on the new river
pleasance;a pleasant and secluded part of a garden. usually attached to a mansion
liverpool;a large city in northwestern england. its port is the country's major outlet for industrial exports
calcutta;the largest city in india and one of the largest cities in the world. located in eastern india. suffers from poverty and overcrowding
pasture;a field covered with grass or herbage and suitable for grazing by livestock
quadrant;the area enclosed by two perpendicular radii of a circle
nijmegen;an industrial city in the eastern netherlands
barcelona;a city in northeastern spain on the mediterranean. 2nd largest spanish city and the largest port and commercial center. has been a center for radical political beliefs
fireguard;a narrow field that has been cleared to check the spread of a prairie fire or forest fire
franche comte;a former province of eastern france
nagasaki;a city in southern japan on kyushu. a leading port and shipbuilding center. on august 9, 1945 nagasaki became the second populated area to receive an atomic bomb
central;a telecommunications facility
aqaba;jordan's port. located in southwestern jordan on the gulf of aqaba
premises;land and buildings together considered as a place of business. 'bread is baked on the premises'
camden;a city in southwestern new jersey on the delaware river near pittsburgh
surroundings;the area in which something exists or lives: 'the country--the flat agricultural surround'
salem;a city in northeastern massachusetts. site of the witchcraft trials in 1692
douala;the largest city of cameroon
centerfield;the part of the outfield directly ahead of the catcher. 'he hit the ball to deep center'
fukuoka;a city in southern japan on kyushu
rio de janeiro;the former capital and 2nd largest city of brazil. famous as a tourist attraction
thule;a town in northwestern greenland. during world war ii a united states naval base was built there
junkyard;a field where junk is collected and stored for resale
car park;a lot where cars are parked
scene;the place where some action occurs. 'the police returned to the scene of the crime'
wellhead;the source of water for a well
confederacy;the 11 southern states that seceded from the united states in 1861
campong;a native village in malaysia
southland;"any region lying in or toward the south"
krakow;an industrial city in s poland on the vistula
ho chi minh city;a city in s vietnam. formerly (as saigon) it was the capital of french indochina
saskatoon;a city is s saskatchewan
center;a place where some particular activity is concentrated. 'they received messages from several centers'
hometown;the town (or city) where you grew up or where you have your principal residence. 'he never went back to his hometown again'
ley;a field covered with grass or herbage and suitable for grazing by livestock
home;"the place where you are stationed and from which missions start and end"
midi pyrenees;a region in southwestern france
thebes;an ancient greek city in boeotia destroyed by alexander the great in 336 bc
breslau;a city in southwestern poland on the oder
backwater;"any backward region that is isolated from the world and resists progress"
dallas;a large commercial and industrial city in northeastern texas
mannheim;a city in southwestern germany at the confluence of the rhine and neckar rivers
patch;a small area of planted ground. 'a cabbage patch'
korinthos;the modern city is near the cite of the ancient city that was 2nd only to athens
cattle farm;a large tract of land along with facilities needed to raise livestock (especially cattle)
site;"the piece of land on which something is located (or is to be located): 'a good site for the school'"
playing field;a piece of land prepared for playing a game. 'the home crowd cheered when princeton took the field'
pool;"something resembling a pool of liquid. 'he stood in a pool of light'. 'his chair sat in a puddle of books and magazines'"
holiday resort;an area where many people go for recreation
point source;a spatially constricted by concentrated source (especially of radiation or pollution)
yorkshire;a former large county in northern england. in 1974 it was divided into three smaller counties
pueblo;a communal village built by indians in the southwestern u.s.
novosibirsk;a city in the asian part of russia
badlands;an eroded and barren region in southwestern south dakota and northwestern nebraska
nest;a cosy or secluded retreat
greensboro;a city of north central north carolina
north carolina;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
singan;a city of central china. capital of ancient chinese empire 221-206 bc
tsaritsyn;a city in the european part of russia on the volga. site of german defeat in world war ii in the winter of 1942-43
countryside;rural regions
valencia;a city in eastern spain on the mediterranean. 'valencia is the third largest city in spain'
vantage point;a place from which something can be viewed. 'from that vantage point he could survey the whole valley'
infield;the area of a baseball field that is enclosed by 3 bases and home plate
domain;"territory over which rule or control is exercised. 'his domain extended into europe'. 'he made it the law of the land'"
land;"territory over which rule or control is exercised. 'his domain extended into europe'. 'he made it the law of the land'"
point of entry;a port where customs officials are stationed to oversee the entry and exit of people and merchandise
vicinity;a surrounding or nearby region. 'the plane crashed in the vicinty of asheville'. 'it is a rugged locality'. 'he always blames someone else in the immediate neighborhood'
ilium;an ancient city in asia minor that was the site of the trojan war
hangchow;a city of eastern china on hangzhou bay (an inlet of the east china sea). regarded by marco polo as the finest city in the world
brickyard;a place where bricks are made and sold
sanctum;"a sacred place of pilgrimage"
kitchen midden;(archeology) a mound of domestic refuse containing shells and animal bones marking the site of a prehistoric settlement
pago pago;a port in american samoa
northern hemisphere;the hemisphere north of the equator
perch;an elevated place serving as a seat
bruges;a city in northwestern belgium in west flanders province. connected by canal to the north sea. the old city is a popular tourist attraction
provence;a former province of southeastern france. now administered with cote d'azur
reading;a city on the river thames in berkshire in s england
orizaba;a city of east central mexico (west of veracruz). a popular resort
putting green;an area of closely cropped grass surrounding the hole on a golf course
head;the source of water from which a stream arises. 'they tracked him back toward the head of the stream'
arabian desert;a desert on the arabian peninsula in southwestern asia
frigid zone;the part of the earth's surface forming a cap over a pole. characterized by frigid climate
commons;a pasture subject to common use
garbage dump;a piece of land where waste materials are dumped
mombasa;a port in s kenya on a coral island in a bay of the indian ocean
windy city;largest city in illinois. located on lake michigan
mooring;a place where a craft can be made fast
jacksonville;a port and important commercial center in northeastern florida
subtropics;regions adjacent to the tropics
breeding ground;a place where animals breed
green bay;a city of eastern wisconsin on an arm of lake michigan
chicago;largest city in illinois. located on lake michigan
dooryard;a yard outside the front or rear door of a house
roundhouse;circular building for repairing locomotives
foothold;an area in hostile territory that has been occupied and is held for further troops and supplies
polling place;"a place where voters go to cast their votes in an election"
grounds;a tract of land cleared for some special purposes (recreation or burial etc.)
osaka;an industrialized city of s honshu in japan on osaka bay
studio;place for the teaching or practice of an art. 'she ran a dance studio'. 'the music department provided studios for their students'. 'you don't need a studio to make a passport photograph'
cracow;an industrial city in s poland on the vistula
lead;"(baseball) the position taken by a base runner preparing to advance to the next base. 'he took a long lead off first'"
cashmere;an area in southwestern asia whose sovereignty is disputed between pakistan and india
chester;a city of southeastern pennsylvania on the delaware river (an industrial suburb of philadelphia)
kashmir;an area in southwestern asia whose sovereignty is disputed between pakistan and india
goeteborg;a port in southwestern sweden. second largest city in sweden
spread;a large tract of land along with facilities needed to raise livestock (especially cattle)
front line;the line along which opposing armies face each other
seat;a space reserved for sitting (as in a theater or on a train or airplane). 'he booked their seats in advance'. 'he sat in someone else's place'
manchester;largest city in new hampshire. located in southeastern new hampshire on the merrimack river
salonika;a city in northeastern greece on an inlet of the aegean sea. the 2nd largest city of greece
saxony;an area in germany around the upper elbe river
l aquila;the provincial capital of the abruzzi region in central italy
mid atlantic states;a region of the eastern united states comprising new york and new jersey and pennsylvania and delaware and maryland
sian;a city of central china. capital of ancient chinese empire 221-206 bc
cebu;an important seaport on the island of cebu in the philippines
kovna;a city in central lithuania
cape town;the seat of the legislative branch of the government of south africa
vanishing point;"the point beyond which something disappears or ceases to exist"
middle;an area that is approximately central within some larger region. 'it is in the center of town'. 'they ran forward into the heart of the struggle'. 'they were in the eye of the storm'
tabora;a city in central tanzania
midair;"some point in the air. above ground level. 'the planes collided in midair'"
geographical zone;any of the regions of the surface of the earth loosely divided according to latitude or longitude
field;"a region in which military operations are in progress. 'the army was in the field awaiting action'"
negev desert;a desert in s israel
rotterdam;the 2nd largest city in the netherlands. located in the western netherlands near the north sea
wheatfield;a field planted with wheat
lapland;a region in northmost europe inhabited by lapps
saint petersburg;a city in the european part of russia. 2nd largest russian city. located at the head of the gulf of finland on the neva river. former capital of russia
volgograd;a city in the european part of russia on the volga. site of german defeat in world war ii in the winter of 1942-43
weald;(brit) an area of open or forested country
ciudad juarez;a city in northern mexico on the rio grande opposite el paso
artois;a former province of northern france near the english channel (between picardy and flanders)
soil profile;a vertical section of soil from the ground surface to the parent rock
grounds;the land around a house or other building. 'it was a small house with almost no yard at all'
champagne;a region of northeastern france
jumping off point;a place from which an enterprise or expedition is launched
epicentre;"the point on the earth's surface directly above the focus of an earthquake"
timbuktu;a city in central mali near the niger river. formerly famous for its gold trade
science lab;a workplace for the conduct of scientific research
piggery;a pig farm. a place where pigs are raised or kept
geographical area;"a demarcated area of the earth"
norfolk;largest city of virginia. located in southeastern virginia. headquarters of the united states atlantic fleet
sheepwalk;(british) property devoted to raising sheep
macedonia;the ancient kingdom of phillip ii and alexander the great in the southeastern balkans that is now divided among greece and bulgaria and the former yugoslavia
no man s land;an unoccupied area between opposing armies
rhode island;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
palermo;the capital of sicily. located in northwestern sicily. an important port for 3000 years
leiden;a city in the western netherlands. residence of the pilgrim fathers for 11 years before they sailed for america in 1620
bari;capital city of the apulia region on the adriatic coast
southern hemisphere;the hemisphere south of the equator
confederate states of america;the 11 southern states that seceded from the united states in 1861
shipyard;a workplace where ships are built or repaired
village green;a village park consisting of a plot of grassy land
plot of ground;a small area of planted ground. 'a cabbage patch'
assur;an ancient assyrian city
pearl harbor;a harbor on oahu west of honolulu. location of a united states naval base that was attacked by the japanese on 7 dec 1941
roads;a partly sheltered anchorage
picardie;a region of northern france on the english channel
atlantic city;a city on the atlantic shore in southeastern new jersey. a resort and gambling center
bretagne;a former province of northwestern france on a peninsula between the english channel and the bay of biscay
patagonian desert;a semi-arid region in southern south america
sweatshop;a shop or factory where people work long hours for poor pay
air;where the air is unconfined. 'he wanted to get out in the air a little'. 'the concert was held in the open air'. 'camping in the open'
minneapolis;largest city in minnesota. located in southeastern minnesota on the mississippi river. one of the twin cities
campsite;a site where people on holiday can pitch a tent
basketball court;the court on which basketball is played
jaffa;a port in western israel on the mediterranean. incorporated into tel aviv in 1950
port;"a place (seaport or airport) where people and merchandise can enter or leave a country"
piedmont;the plateau between the coastal plain and the appalachian mountains: parts of virginia and north and south carolina and georgia and alabama
tabriz;an ancient city in northwestern iran. known for hot springs
block;a rectangular area in a city surrounded by streets and usually containing several buildings. 'he lives in the next block'
expanse;"a wide and open space or area as of surface or land or sky"
otc marker;a market where securities transactions are made via phone and computer rather than on the floor of an exchange
lookout;an elevated post affording a wide view
saragossa;an ancient city in northeastern spain. formerly the capital of aragon
normandie;a former province of northwestern france on the english channel. divided into haute-normandie and basse-normandie
mojave;a desert area in southern california
picnic area;a tract of land set aside for picnicking
bailey;the outer courtyard of a castle
garden;a plot of ground where plants are cultivated
lower normandy;a division of normandy
yard;the land around a house or other building. 'it was a small house with almost no yard at all'
semitropics;regions adjacent to the tropics
element;the most favorable environment for a plant or animal. 'water is the element of fishes'
grassland;land where grass or grasslike vegetation grows
camping site;a site where people on holiday can pitch a tent
place;any area set aside for a particular purpose. 'who owns this place?'
thessalonika;a city in northeastern greece on an inlet of the aegean sea. the 2nd largest city of greece
byzantium;an ancient city on the bosporus founded by the greeks. site of modern istanbul
seascape;a view of the sea
tanganyika;a former state in east africa. united with zanzibar in 1964 to form tanzania
salem;a city of southern india
tijuana;a mexican city just south of san diego on the lower california peninsula. popular among american tourists for racetracks and bullfights
st. petersburg;a city in western florida on tampa bay. a popular winter resort
common land;a pasture subject to common use
god s acre;the yard associated with a church
ionia;region of western asia minor colonized by ancient greeks
vacation spot;an area where many people go for recreation
occident;the hemisphere that includes north and south america
plane section;(geometry) the area created by a plane cutting through a solid
kansas city;a city is western missouri
hsian;a city of central china. capital of ancient chinese empire 221-206 bc
zone;any of the regions of the surface of the earth loosely divided according to latitude or longitude
free port;a port open on equal terms to all commercial vessels
extent;"a wide and open space or area as of surface or land or sky"
siracusa;a city in southeastern sicily that was founded by corinthians in the 8th century bc
midi;the south of france
midway;the place at a fair or carnival where sideshows and similar amusements are located
granada;a city in southeastern spain. site of the alhambra (a palace and fortress built by moslems in the middle ages) which is now a major tourist attraction
square;an open area at the meeting of two or more streets
hargeisa;a city in northwestern somalia
village;a settlement smaller than a town
watering place;a health resort near a spring or at the seaside
hannover;a port city in northwestern germany
scene;the context and environment in which something is set: 'the perfect setting for a ghost story'
donets basin;an industrial region in the ukraine
west bank;an area between israel and jordan on the west bank of the jordan river. populated largely by palestinians
oyster park;a place where oysters are bred and grow
farmland;a rural area where farming is practiced
tianjin;a major industrial center in northeastern china on the grand canal near the yellow sea. 3rd largest city in china
saqqara;a town in northern egypt. site of the oldest egyptian pyramids (the step pyramid)
lietuva;a republic in northeastern europe on the baltic sea
geographical region;"a demarcated area of the earth"
samarkand;tamerlane's capital in the 14th century
barbary;a region of north africa on the mediterranean coast between egypt and gibraltar. was used as a base for pirates from the 16th to 19th centuries
bourgogne;a former province of eastern france that is famous for its wines
traffic island;an area in a roadway from which traffic is excluded. provides safe area for pedestrians
hideout;a hiding place. usually a remote place used by outlaws
transvaal;a region of northeast south africa originally inhabited by bantu-speaking africans. world's chief producer of gold
environment;the area in which something exists or lives: 'the country--the flat agricultural surround'
troy;an ancient city in asia minor that was the site of the trojan war
rose garden;a garden for growing roses
oyster bank;a place where oysters are bred and grow
lurking place;a place suitable for lurking
free port;an area adjoining a port where goods that are intended for reshipment can be received and stored without payment of duties
louisville;the largest city in kentucky. located in north central kentucky on the ohio river. site of the kentucky derby
lab;a workplace for the conduct of scientific research
place of origin;where something originated or was nurtured in its early existence. 'the birthplace of civilization'
court;a specially marked area within which a game is played. 'players had to reserve a court in advance'
aukland;the largest city and principal port of new zealand
resort;a frequently visited place
recife;a city of northeastern brazil on the atlantic
home;place where something began and flourished. 'the u.s. is the home of basketball'
rough;the part of a golf course bordering the fairway where the grass is not cut short
nook;a sheltered and secluded place
bristol;an industrial city and port in southwestern england near the mouth of the river avon
valdosta;a city in s georgia
normandy;a former province of northwestern france on the english channel. divided into haute-normandie and basse-normandie
disk space;(computer science) the space available on a magnetic disk
motor city;the largest city in michigan and a major great lakes port. center of the united states automobile industry. located in southeastern michigan on the detroit river
provenance;where something originated or was nurtured in its early existence. 'the birthplace of civilization'
dump;a piece of land where waste materials are dumped
duchy;the domain controlled by a duke or duchess
burying ground;a tract of land used for burials
chemistry lab;a laboratory for research in chemistry
outpost;a station in a remote or sparsely populated location
sebastopol;a city in s ukraine on the black sea
ball field;the baseball playing field
biology lab;a laboratory for biological research
orleans;a city on the loire river in north central france. site of the siege of orleans by the english (1428-1429)
perm;a city in the european part of russia
veracruz;a major mexican port on the gulf of mexico in the state of veracruz
brokerage house;place where a broker conducts his business
irridenta;"a region that is related ethnically or historically to one country but is controlled politically by another"
lorraine;an eastern french region rich in iron-ore deposits
marshalling yard;a railway yard in which trains are assembled and goods are loaded
hanover;a port city in northwestern germany
city center;the central part of a city
near east;the area around the eastern mediterranean. from turkey to north africa and eastward to iran. the site of such ancient civilizations as phoenicia and babylon and egypt and the birthplace of judaism and christianity and islam. 'the middle east is the cradle of western civilization'
thessaly;a fertile plain on the aegean sea in east central greece. thessaly was a former region of ancient greece
bed of flowers;a bed in which flowers are growing
city of brotherly love;the largest city in pennsylvania. located in the southeastern part of the state on the delaware river. site of independence hall where the declaration of independence and the constitution were signed. site of the university of pennsylvania
baltic republic;european countries bordering the baltic sea
north;any region lying in or toward the north"any region lying in or toward the north"
tidewater;the coastal plain of the south: eastern parts of virginia and north carolina and south carolina and georgia
tropical zone;the part of the earth's surface between the tropics of cancer and capricorn. characterized by a hot climate
macedon;the ancient kingdom of phillip ii and alexander the great in the southeastern balkans that is now divided among greece and bulgaria and the former yugoslavia
san diego;a city of s california on san diego bay near the mexican border. site of an important naval base
public square;an open area at the meeting of two or more streets
bomb site;an area in a town that has been devastated by bombs. 'they opened a parking lot on the bomb site'
print shop;a workplace where printing is done
riviera;a coastal area between la spezia in italy and cannes in france. 'the riviera contains some of europe's most popular resorts'
center;the part of the outfield directly ahead of the catcher. 'he hit the ball to deep center'
holy;"a sacred place of pilgrimage"
british empire;formerly the united kingdom and all the territories under its control. reached its greatest extent at the end of world war i. 'the sun never sets on the british empire'
environs;the area in which something exists or lives: 'the country--the flat agricultural surround'
camping area;a site where people on holiday can pitch a tent
watering hole;a health resort near a spring or at the seaside
verona;a city in veneto on the river adige
rostov na donu;a seaport in the european part of russia
sunbelt;states in the s and southwestern that have a warm climate and tend to be politically conservative
new world;the hemisphere that includes north and south america
vina del mar;a resort city on the pacific in central chile
peterburg;a city in the european part of russia. 2nd largest russian city. located at the head of the gulf of finland on the neva river. former capital of russia
port of entry;a port where customs officials are stationed to oversee the entry and exit of people and merchandise
acapulco de juarez;a fashionable resort city on mexico's pacific coast. known for beaches and water sports (including cliff diving)
sparta;an ancient greek city famous for military prowess. the dominant city of the peloponnesus prior to the 4th century bc
cornfield;a field planted with corn
long beach;a city in southern california
polls;"the place where people vote"
kalahari desert;a desert in southwestern africa - largely botswana
lanchow;the capital city of the chinese province of gansu on the yellow river
sevastopol;a city in s ukraine on the black sea
wichita;the largest city in kansas. located in s kansas on the arkansas river
fishery;a place where fish are caught and processed and sold
heronry;a breeding ground for herons. a heron rookery
city;a large and densely populated urban area. may include several independent administrative districts. 'ancient troy was a great city'
wroclaw;a city in southwestern poland on the oder
nesting place;"a place suitable for nesting"
stambul;the largest city and former capital of turkey. built on the site of ancient byzantium. seat of the eastern orthodox church
polar zone;the part of the earth's surface forming a cap over a pole. characterized by frigid climate
trash dump;a piece of land where waste materials are dumped
rock garden;a garden featuring rocks. usually alpine plants
beverly hills;a city in southwestern california surrounded by los angeles. home of many hollywood actors
wuerzburg;a city of south central germany
physics lab;a laboratory for research in physics
colorado springs;a city in central colorado. popular tourist center and site of the united states air force academy
bed of roses;a flower bed in which roses are growing
disaster area;a region whose population is affected by a general disaster
outback;the remote bush country of australia
donetsk;an industrial city in the donets basin
grazing land;a field covered with grass or herbage and suitable for grazing by livestock
siberia;a vast asian region of russia. famous for long cold winters
frankfort;a german city. an industrial and commercial and financial center
savannah;a port in eastern georgia near the mouth of the savannah river
scrubland;an uncultivated region covered with scrub vegetation
basel;a city in northwestern switzerland
campus;a field on which the buildings of a university are situated
andalusia;a region in southern spain on the atlantic and the mediterranean. formerly a center of moorish civilization
drainage area;the geographical area draining into a river or reservoir
vegetable garden;a small garden where vegetables are grown
retreat;a place of privacy. a place affording peace and quiet
languedoc roussillon;a region in south central france. named after the medieval dialect of french that was spoken there
field;"somewhere (away from a studio or office or library or laboratory) where practical work is done or data is collected. 'anthropologists do much of their work in the field'"
santa clara;a city of west central california. residential area with light industry
city of the angels;a city in southern california. most populous city of california
shrubbery;an area where a number of shrubs are planted
lie;"position or manner in which something is situated"
arctic zone;the regions north of the arctic circle centered on the north pole
gorkiy;an industrial city in the european part of russia
bio lab;a laboratory for biological research
nubian desert;an arid sandstone plateau between the nile and the red sea
latvia;a republic in northeastern europe on the baltic sea
mycenae;an ancient city is s greece. center of the mycenaean civilization
there;"a location other than here. that place. 'you can take it from there'"
zurich;the largest city in switzerland. located in the northern part of the country. 'zurich is the center of the german-speaking part of switzerland'
aquila;the provincial capital of the abruzzi region in central italy
football field;the playing field on which football is played
gobi;a desert in central asia
sphere;the geographical area in which one nation is very influential
ranch;a large tract of land along with facilities needed to raise livestock (especially cattle)
lanchou;the capital city of the chinese province of gansu on the yellow river
kazan;an industrial city in the european part of russia
brighton;a city in sussex in s england that is a popular resort. site of the university of sussex
racine;a city in southeastern wisconsin on lake michigan s of milwaukee
field;a piece of land cleared of trees and usually enclosed. 'he planted a field of wheat'
dairy farm;a farm where dairy products are produced
huntington;a city of western west virginia on the ohio river at the mouth of the kanawha
stuttgart;a city in southwestern germany famous for innovative architecture
anchorage;place for vessels to anchor
eyry;any habitation at a high altitude
stock exchange;an exchange where security trading is conducted by professional stockbrokers
qum;a city in northwestern iran. a place of pilgrimage for shiite muslims
brokerage;place where a broker conducts his business
archduchy;the domain controlled by an archduke or archduchess
midstream;the middle of a stream
building site;a lot on which there are no permanent buildings
venezia;the provincial capital of veneto. built on 118 islands within a lagoon in the gulf of venice which is an arm of the adriatic. has canals instead of streets. one of italy's major ports and a famous tourist attraction
light;an illuminated area. 'he stepped into the light'
sfax;the second largest city in tunisia. located in eastern tunisia near a phosphate region
diamond;the baseball playing field
den;a hiding place. usually a remote place used by outlaws
the pits;"any place of pain and turmoil: 'the hell of battle'. 'the inferno of the engine room'. 'when you're alone christmas is the pits'."
wasteyard;a piece of land where waste materials are dumped
glassworks;a place where glass is made
forge;a workplace where metal is worked by heating and hammering
grove;a small cultivated wood without undergrowth
outstation;a station in a remote or sparsely populated location
hiroshima;a city on the southwestern coast of honshu island in japan. on august 6, 1945 hiroshima was almost completely destroyed by the first atomic bomb dropped on a populated area
french region;a geographical subdivision of france
death valley;a desert area in eastern california and southern nevada. the lowest point in north america
commodity exchange;an exchange for buying and selling commodities for future delivery
fort wayne;a city in northeastern indiana
orchard;a small cultivated wood without undergrowth
danger;a dangerous place. 'he moved out of danger'
binghamton;a city in south central new york near the border with pennsylvania
mohave;a desert area in southern california
georgia;one of the british colonies that formed the united states
spot;a point located with respect to surface features of some region. 'this is a nice place for a picnic'
showplace;"a place that is frequently exhibited and visited for its historical interest or natural beauty"
delphi;an ancient greek city on the slopes of mount parnassus. site of the temple of apollo
cordoba;a city in southern spain. center of moorish culture
aerie;any habitation at a high altitude
playing area;a piece of land prepared for playing a game. 'the home crowd cheered when princeton took the field'
winston salem;a city of north central north carolina
sachsen;an area in germany around the upper elbe river
amex;a stock exchange in new york
phoenicia;an ancient maritime country (a collection of city states) at eastern end of the mediterranean
sahara;the world's largest desert (3,500,000 square miles) in north africa
omsk;a city in the asian part of russia
hearth;an area near a fireplace (usually paved and extending out into a room)
civic center;the center of a city
lothringen;an eastern french region rich in iron-ore deposits
ground;a position to be won or defended in battle (or as if in battle). 'they gained ground step by step'. 'they fought to regain the lost ground'
stretch;a large and unbroken expanse or distance. 'a stretch of highway'. 'a stretch of clear water'
plymouth;a town in massachusetts founded by pilgrims in 1620
anjou;a former province of western france in the loire valley
parking space;a space where an automobile can be parked
place;a point located with respect to surface features of some region. 'this is a nice place for a picnic'
el giza;an ancient egyptian city on the west bank of the nile opposite cairo. site of three great pyramids and the sphinx
wilmington;the largest city in delaware
laboratory;a workplace for the conduct of scientific research
exterior;"the region that is outside of something"
locale;the scene of any event or action (especially the place of a meeting)
den;the habitation of wild animals
chattanooga;a city in eastern tennessee
savannah;a flat grassland in tropical or subtropical regions
diamond;the area of a baseball field that is enclosed by 3 bases and home plate
sphere of influence;the geographical area in which one nation is very influential
open;where the air is unconfined. 'he wanted to get out in the air a little'. 'the concert was held in the open air'. 'camping in the open'
berth;a place where a craft can be made fast
guayaquil;the largest city of ecuador
dark;an unilluminated area. 'he moved off into the darkness'
dixieland;the 11 southern states that seceded from the united states in 1861
clarksburg;a city in northern west virginia
futures market;a commodity exchange where futures contracts are traded
half mast;"a position some distance below the top of the mast to which a flag is lowered in mourning or to signal distress"
parvis;a courtyard or portico in front of a building (especially a cathedral)
kampong;a native village in malaysia
madras;a city of southeastern india on the bay of bengal
summer camp;a site where care and activities are provided for children during the summer months. 'city kids get to see the country at a summer camp'
brittany;a former province of northwestern france on a peninsula between the english channel and the bay of biscay
plaza;a public square with room for pedestrians. 'they met at elm plaza'. 'grosvenor place'
service area;"place on a highway providing garage services and eating and toilet facilities"
rubbish dump;a piece of land where waste materials are dumped
jerez;a city in southwestern spain that is famous for making sherry
burlington;the largest city in vermont. located in northwestern vermont on lake champlain. site of the university of vermont
worcester;a city in massachusetts
st. petersburg;a city in the european part of russia. 2nd largest russian city. located at the head of the gulf of finland on the neva river. former capital of russia
curb;a stock exchange in new york
goal;"place where something (e.g., a journey or race) ends"
entrepot;a port where merchandise can be imported and re-exported with paying import duties
physics laboratory;a laboratory for research in physics
squash court;the indoor court in which squash is played
broadcast area;the area over which a radio or tv transmission can be received
gathering place;a favorite haunt where people gather
taos;an artist colony in northern new mexico
prairie;a treeless grassy plain
changan;a city of central china. capital of ancient chinese empire 221-206 bc
safety zone;an area in a roadway from which traffic is excluded. provides safe area for pedestrians
shop floor;the part of a factory housing the machines where the productive work is done
truck garden;a farm where vegetables are grown for market
combat zone;a military area where combat forces operate
hell;"any place of pain and turmoil: 'the hell of battle'. 'the inferno of the engine room'. 'when you're alone christmas is the pits'."
palestine;an ancient country is southwestern asia on the east coast of the mediterranean. a place of pilgrimage for christianity and islam and judaism
kovno;a city in central lithuania
chem lab;a laboratory for research in chemistry
navy yard;a military shipyard
charlotte;the largest city in north carolina. located in south central north carolina
herculaneum;ancient city. now destroyed
outfield;the area of a baseball playing field beyond the lines connecting the bases
tea garden;a public garden where tea is served
akaba;jordan's port. located in southwestern jordan on the gulf of aqaba
parthia;an ancient country in asia on the caspian sea. dominated southwestern asia from about 100 bc to 200 ad
vladivostok;a seaport in the asian part of russia
bengal;a region whose eastern part is bangladesh and western part is included in india
golan heights;a fortified hilly area between s lebanon and s syria. 'artillery on the golan heights can dominate a large area of israel'
ufa;a city in the european part of russia
roof garden;a garden on a flat roof of a building
latin america;the parts of north and south america south of the united states where romance languages (spanish and portuguese) are spoken
gridiron;the playing field on which football is played
suzerainty;the domain of a suzerain
monaco;a constitutional monarchy on the french riviera
kingdom;the domain ruled by a king or queen
old delhi;a city in north-central india
necropolis;a tract of land used for burials
fairway;the area between the tee and putting green where the grass is cut short
darkness;an unilluminated area. 'he moved off into the darkness'
nanjing;a city in eastern china on the yangtze river. a former capital of china. the scene of a japanese massacre in the 1930s
shadow;an unilluminated area. 'he moved off into the darkness'
backyard;the grounds in back of a house
bonn;a city in western germany on the rhine river. was the capital of west germany between 1949 and 1989
grainfield;a field where grain is grown
gaul;an ancient region of western europe that included northern italy and france and belgium and part of germany and the netherlands
stamping ground;a frequently visited place
big board;a stock exchange in new york
eyrie;any habitation at a high altitude
rhone alpes;a mountainous region of eastern france drained by the rhone and saone and isere rivers
south;the 11 southern states that seceded from the united states in 1861
detroit;the largest city in michigan and a major great lakes port. center of the united states automobile industry. located in southeastern michigan on the detroit river
arena;where sports events take place
galicia;a region (and former kingdom) in northwestern spain on the atlantic and the bay of biscay
jersy city;a city in northeastern new jersey (opposite manhattan)
padova;a city in veneto
oyster bed;a place where oysters are bred and grow
recording studio;where tapes and records are recorded
hamlet;a settlement smaller than a town
saqqarah;a town in northern egypt. site of the oldest egyptian pyramids (the step pyramid)
middle west;the north central region of the united states
climatic zone;any of the geographical zones loosely divided according to prevailing climate and latitude
colchis;a region on the black sea south of the caucasus that was the site of an ancient country where (according to greek mythology) jason sought the golden fleece
bad lands;an eroded and barren region in southwestern south dakota and northwestern nebraska
open air;where the air is unconfined. 'he wanted to get out in the air a little'. 'the concert was held in the open air'. 'camping in the open'
spring;a point at which water issues forth
bridgehead;an area in hostile territory that has been occupied and is held for further troops and supplies
antwerpen;a port in northern belgium on the scheldt river
battlefront;the line along which opposing armies face each other
low countries;the lowland region of western europe on the north sea: belgium and luxembourg and the netherlands
rochester;a city in western new york. a center of the photographic equipment industry
schenectady;a city of eastern new york on the mohawk river. it prospered after the opening of the erie canal
messina;a port city in northeastern sicily on the strait of messina
turin;capital city of the piemonte region of northwestern italy
montenegro;a former balkan country bordering on the adriatic sea
borderland;the area on either side of a border or boundary
brickfield;a place where bricks are made and sold
cymru;one of the four countries that make up the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland
stratford on avon;a town in central england on the river avon. birthplace (and burial place) of william shakespeare
locality;a surrounding or nearby region. 'the plane crashed in the vicinty of asheville'. 'it is a rugged locality'. 'he always blames someone else in the immediate neighborhood'
sheffield;a steel manufacturing city in northern england famous for its cutlery industry
kraal;a village of huts for native africans in southern africa. usually surrounded by a stockade
yard;a tract of land enclosed for particular activities (sometimes paved and usually associated with buildings). 'they opened a repair yard on the edge of town'
cancun;a popular island resort off the northeastern tip of the yucatan peninsula
breiz;a former province of northwestern france on a peninsula between the english channel and the bay of biscay
parterre;an ornamental flower garden. beds and paths are arranged to form a pattern
