plutocracy;a political system governed by the wealthy people
despotism;a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.)
democracy;a political system governed by the people or their representatives
republic;a political system governed by the people or their representatives
dyarchy;an autocracy governed by two rulers
totalitarianism;a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.)
parliamentary monarchy;a monarchy having a parliament
theocracy;a political unit governed by a deity (or by officials thought to be divinely guided)
dictatorship;a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.)
kingdom;a monarchy with a king or queen as head of state
parliamentary democracy;a democracy having a parliament
empire;a monarchy with an emperor as head of state
one man rule;a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.)
absolutism;a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.)
stalinism;a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.)
tyranny;a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.)
technocracy;a form of government in which scientists and technical experts are in control
political system;"the members of a social organization who are in power"
monocracy;a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.)
authoritarianism;a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.)
hegemony;the domination of one state over its allies
autarchy;a political system governed by a single individual
autocracy;a political system governed by a single individual
commonwealth;a political system governed by the people or their representatives
oligarchy;a political system governed by a few people
church state;a state ruled by religious authority
shogunate;a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.)
form of government;"the members of a social organization who are in power"
constitutionalism;a constitutional system of government (usually with a written constitution)
police state;a country that maintains repressive control over the people by means of police (especially secret police)
diarchy;an autocracy governed by two rulers
caesarism;a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.)
monarchy;an autocracy governed by a monarch who usually inherits the authority
