antitrust law;legislation intended to promote free competition in the market place by outlawing monopolies
profile;a side view representation of an object (especially a human face)
letters;scholarly attainment. 'he is a man of letters'
moral principle;the principles of right and wrong that are accepted by an individual or a social group. 'the puritan ethic'. 'a person with old-fashioned values'
ecumenicism;the doctrine of the ecumenical movement promoting cooperation and better understanding among different religious denominations. aimed at universal christian unity
parsiism;zoroastrian sect in india
unseen;a belief that there is a realm controlled by a divine spirit
theory;a belief that can guide behavior. 'the architect has a theory that more is less'. 'they killed him on the theory that dead men tell no tales'
suspicion;an impression that something might be the case. 'he had an intuition that something had gone wrong'
boehmenism;the mystical theological doctrine of jakob boehme that influenced the quakers
foretaste;an early limited awareness of something yet to occur
dogma;a religious doctrine that is proclaimed as true without proof
abstractionism;a representation having no reference to concrete objects or specific examples
ethic;the principles of right and wrong that are accepted by an individual or a social group. 'the puritan ethic'. 'a person with old-fashioned values'
principle;a rule or standard especially of good behavior: 'a man of principle'. 'he will not violate his principles'
unidentified flying object;an (apparently) flying object whose nature is unknown. especially those considered to have extraterrestrial origins
flavour;(high energy physics) the kinds of quarks
political sympathies;the opinion you hold with respect to political questions
expectancy;something expected (as on the basis of a norm). 'each of them had their own anticipations'. 'an indicator of expectancy in development'
style of architecture;architecture as a kind of art form
osha;a law passed by us congress to prevent employees from being injured or contracting diseases in the course of their employment
reality;all of your experiences that determine how things appear to you. 'his world was shattered'. 'we live in different worlds'. 'for them demons were as much a part of reality as trees were'
hope;grounds for feeling hopeful about the future. 'there is little or no promise that he will recover'
genre;a kind of literary or artistic work
judicial doctrine;a principle underlying the formulation of jurisprudence
connotation;an idea that is implied or suggested
spook;a mental representation of some haunting experience. 'he looked like he had seen a ghost'. 'it aroused specters from his past'
paragon;an ideal instance. a perfect embodiment of a concept
puritanism;the beliefs and practices characteristic of puritans (most of whom were calvinists who wished to purify the church of england of its catholic aspects)
suggestion;an idea that is suggested. 'the picnic was her suggestion'
second adventism;any christian religion that believes the second coming of christ is imminent
nominalism;the doctrine that the various objects labeled by the same term have nothing in common but their name
prospect;the visual percept of a region. 'the most desirable feature of the park are the beautiful views'
value orientation;the principles of right and wrong that are accepted by an individual or a social group. 'the puritan ethic'. 'a person with old-fashioned values'
relativism;the philosophical doctrine that all criteria of judgment are relative to the individuals and situations involved
genus;a general kind of something. 'ignore the genus communism'
theosophy;belief based on mystical insight into the nature of god and the soul
mosaic law;the laws (beginning with the ten commandments) that god gave to the israelites through moses. it includes many rules of religious observance given in the first five books of the old testament (in judaism these books are called the torah)
illusion;something many people believe that is false. 'they have the illusion that i am very wealthy'
sorcery;the belief in magical spells that harness occult forces or evil spirits to produce unnatural effects in the world
preconception;an opinion formed without adequate evidence. 'he did not even try to confirm his preconceptions'
populism;the political doctrine that supports the rights and powers of the common people in their struggle with the privileged elite
mennonitism;system of beliefs and practices including belief in scriptural authority. plain dress. adult baptism. foot washing. restriction of marriage to members of the group
burden;the central idea that is expanded in a document or discourse
antitype;an opposite or contrasting type
theological doctrine;the doctrine of a religious group
passivism;the doctrine that all violence in unjustifiable
roman architecture;the architecture of ancient rome
figment;a contrived or fantastic idea. 'a figment of the imagination'
spiritualism;any doctrine that asserts the separate existence of god
creed;the body of teachings of a religious group that are generally accepted by that group
reaction;an idea evoked by some experience. 'his reaction to the news was to start planning what to do'
caesaropapism;the doctrine that the state is supreme over the church in ecclesiastical matters
principle;a basic generalization that is accepted as true and that can be used as a basis for reasoning or conduct. 'their principles of composition characterized all their works'
petitio;the fallacy of assuming the conclusion in the premises. begging the question
light;public awareness. 'it brought the scandal to light'
thought;the organized beliefs of a period or group or individual. '19th century thought' or 'darwinian thought'
reinterpretation;a new or different meaning
ideal;the idea of something that is perfect. something that one hopes to attain
voodooism;a religious cult practiced chiefly in caribbean countries (especially haiti). involves witchcraft and animistic deities
sentiment;a personal belief that is not founded on proof or certainty. 'my opinion differs from yours'. 'what are your thoughts on haiti?'
fancy;something many people believe that is false. 'they have the illusion that i am very wealthy'
consubstantiation;the high-church anglican doctrine that after the consecration of the eucharist the substance of the body and blood of christ coexists with the substance of the consecrated bread and wine
anglicanism;the faith and doctrine and practice of the anglican church
fatalism;a philosophical doctrine holding that all events are predetermined in advance for all time and human beings are powerless to change them
mother;a condition that is the inspiration for an activity or situation. 'necessity is the mother of invention'
rule;a basic generalization that is accepted as true and that can be used as a basis for reasoning or conduct. 'their principles of composition characterized all their works'
woodcraft;skill and experience in matters relating to the woods (as hunting or fishing or camping)
religious doctrine;the body of teachings of a religious group that are generally accepted by that group
reminder;an experience that causes you to remember something
occupational safety and health act;a law passed by us congress to prevent employees from being injured or contracting diseases in the course of their employment
sight;an instance of visual perception. 'the sight of his wife brought him back to reality'. 'the train was an unexpected sight'
afterimage;an image (usually a negative image) that persists after stimulation has ceased
screen memory;an imagined memory of a childhood experience. hides another memory of distressing significance
prejudice;an opinion that is preconceived and (usually) unfavorable
denotation;the class of objects that an expression refers to. 'the extension of 'satellite of mars' is the set containing only demos and phobos'
creed;any system of principles or beliefs
anagoge;a mystical or allegorical interpretation (especially of scripture)
magic;any art that invokes supernatural powers
the likes of;a similar kind. 'dogs, foxes, and the like', 'we don't want the likes of you around here'
laissez faire;the doctrine that government should not interfere in commercial affairs
confabulation;(psychiatry) a plausible but imagined memory that fills in gaps in what is remembered
meaning;the idea that is intended. 'what is the sense of this proverb?'
obeah;a religious belief of african origin involving witchcraft and sorcery. practiced in parts of the west indies and tropical americas
source;anything that provides inspiration for later work
purport;general meaning or tenor: 'caught the drift of the conversation'
picture;a clear and telling mental image. 'he described his mental picture of his assailant'. 'he had no clear picture of himself or his world'. 'the events left a permanent impression in his mind'
rationalism;the doctrine that knowledge is acquired by reason without resort to experience
opinion;a personal belief that is not founded on proof or certainty. 'my opinion differs from yours'. 'what are your thoughts on haiti?'
mistake;an understanding of something that is not correct. 'he wasn't going to admit his mistake'. 'make no mistake about his intentions'. 'there must be some misunderstanding--i don't have a sister'
popular opinion;a belief or sentiment shared by most people. the voice of the people. 'he asked for a poll of public opinion'
self deceit;a misconception that is favorable to the person who holds it
statute law;a law enacted by a legislative body
image;an iconic mental representation. 'her imagination forced images upon her too awful to contemplate'
deconstructionism;a philosophical theory of criticism (usually of literature or film) that seeks to expose deep-seated contradictions in a work by delving below its surface meaning
spectre;a mental representation of some haunting experience. 'he looked like he had seen a ghost'. 'it aroused specters from his past'
experience;the accumulation of knowledge or skill that results from direct participation in events or activities. 'a man of experience'. 'experience is the best teacher'
evangelicalism;stresses the importance of personal conversion and faith as the means of salvation
beauty;an outstanding example of its kind. 'his roses were beauties'. 'when i make a mistake it's a beaut'
calvinism;the theological system of john calvin and his followers emphasizing omnipotence of god and salvation by grace alone
fetishism;a belief in the magical power of fetishes (or the worship of a fetish)
predetermination;(theology) the doctrine (usually associated with calvin) that god has foreordained every event throughout eternity (including the final salvation of mankind)
parti pris;an opinion formed without adequate evidence. 'he did not even try to confirm his preconceptions'
illiteracy;ignorance resulting from not reading
sensualism;the ethical doctrine that feeling is the only criterion for what is good
afflatus;a strong creative impulse. divine inspiration
episcopalianism;the theological doctrine of church government by bishops
re experiencing;a recurrence of a prior experience. 'the reliving of a strong emotion can be therapeutic'
jainism;founded in the 6th century as a revolt against hinduism. emphasizes asceticism and immortality and transmigration of the soul. denies existence of a perfect or supreme being
misgiving;painful expectation
superstition;an irrational belief arising from ignorance or fear
gymnosophy;the doctrine of a sect of hindu philosophers who practiced nudity and asceticism and meditation
krishnaism;worship of krishna the 8th avatar of vishnu
mental lexicon;"a language user's knowledge of words"
vaishnavism;worship of vishnu one of the 3 chief gods of the hindu pantheon
profoundness;wisdom that is recondite and abstruse and profound. 'the anthropologist was impressed by the reconditeness of the native proverbs'
thought image;a mental image produced by the imagination
unknowing;ignorance (especially of orthodox beliefs)
reliving;a recurrence of a prior experience. 'the reliving of a strong emotion can be therapeutic'
value;an ideal accepted by some individual or group. 'he has old-fashioned values'
logicism;the philosophical theory that all of mathematics can be derived from formal logic
faith;a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny. 'he lost his faith but not his morality'
moorish architecture;a style of architecture common in spain from the 13th to 16th centuries. characterized by the horseshoe (moorish) arch
aristotelianism;the philosophy of aristotle that elaborates the fundamental principles of the syllogism
unenlightenment;a lack of understanding
amoralism;the doctrine that moral distinctions are invalid
variety;a category of things distinguished by some common characteristic or quality. 'sculpture is a form of art'. 'what kinds of desserts are there?'
feeling;a vague idea in which some confidence is placed. 'his impression of her was favorable'. 'what are your feelings about the crisis?'. 'it strengthened my belief in his sincerity'
unitarianism;christian doctrine that stresses individual freedom of belief and rejects the trinity
fallacy;a misconception resulting from incorrect reasoning
prepossession;an opinion formed without adequate evidence. 'he did not even try to confirm his preconceptions'
realism;the philosophical doctrine that abstract concepts exist independent of their names
example;something to be imitated. 'an exemplar of success'. 'a model of clarity'. 'he is the very model of a modern major general'
manner;a kind. 'what manner of man are you?'
tudor architecture;a style of english-gothic architecture popular during the tudor period. characterized by half-timbered houses
pentecostalism;the principles and practices of pentecostal religious groups. characterized by religious excitement and talking in tongues
abstract;a concept or idea not associated with any specific instance. 'he loved her only in the abstract--not in person'
wishful thinking;the illusion that what you wish for is actually true
souvenir;a reminder of past events
spiritual world;a belief that there is a realm controlled by a divine spirit
philosophical theory;a doctrine accepted by adherents to a philosophy
type;a subdivision of a particular kind of thing. 'what type of sculpture do you prefer?'
anglo catholicism;a doctrine and practice within the church of england emphasizing the catholic tradition
perception;the representation of what is perceived. basic component in the formation of a concept
feminism;a doctrine that advocates equal rights for women
pragmatism;the doctrine that practical consequences are the criteria of knowledge and meaning and value
shinto;the indigenous polytheistic religion of japan lacking organized teachings. primarily nature and ancestor worship including a chief deity from whom the emperor is believed to be descended
aftertaste;an afterimage of a taste
culture;all the knowledge and values shared by a society
judgment;an opinion formed by judging something. 'he was reluctant to make his judgment known'. 'she changed her mind'
field;the area that is visible through an optical instrument
religious cult;a system of religious beliefs and rituals
mysticism;a religion based on mystical communion with an ultimate reality
norman architecture;a romanesque style first appearing in normandy around 950 ad and used in britain from the norman conquest until the 12th century
deja vu;the experience of thinking that a new situation had occurred before
nationalism;the conviction that the culture and interests of your nation are superior to those of any other nation
field of regard;all of the points of the physical environment that can be perceived by a stable eye at a given moment
zen buddhism;doctrine that enlightenment can be attained through direct intuitive insight
tenet;a religious doctrine that is proclaimed as true without proof
visualization;a mental image that is similar to a visual perception
paganism;any of various religions other than christianity or judaism or islamism
mainstream;the prevailing current of thought. 'his thinking was in the american mainstream'
mazdaism;system founded in persia in the 6th century b.c. by zoroaster. set forth in the zend-avesta. based on concept of struggle between light (good) and dark (evil)
gospel;a doctrine that is believed to be of great importance. 'newton's writings were gospel for those who followed'
mental representation;a presentation to the mind in the form of an idea or image
humanitarianism;the doctrine that people's duty is to promote human welfare
hobbyhorse;a topic to which on constantly reverts: 'don't get him started on his hobbyhorse'
darkness;an unenlightened state. 'he was in the dark concerning their intentions'. 'his lectures dispelled the darkness'
values;beliefs of a person or social group in which they have an emotional investment (either for or against something). 'he has very conservatives values'returns things in order as multiple values.
disillusion;freeing from false belief or illusions
virgin birth;the theological doctrine that jesus christ had no human father. christians believe that jesus's birth fulfilled old testament prophecies and was attended by miracles. the nativity is celebrated at christmas
ecclesiasticism;religion appropriate to a church and to ecclesiastical principles and practices
heathenism;any of various religions other than christianity or judaism or islamism
thought;a personal belief that is not founded on proof or certainty. 'my opinion differs from yours'. 'what are your thoughts on haiti?'
fixation;an unhealthy preoccupation with something or someone
islamism;the monotheistic religion of muslims based on the koran
conclusion;a position or opinion or judgment reached after consideration: 'a decision unfavorable to the opposition'. 'his conclusion took the evidence into accout'. 'satisfied with the panel's determination'
internationalism;the doctrine that nations should cooperate because their common interests are more important than their differences
memento;a reminder of past events
diabolism;the worship of devils (especially satan)
sonata form;a musical form having 3 sections -- exposition and development and recapitulation. characteristic of 1st movement of a sonata or symphony
international law;the body of laws governing relations between nations
belief;any cognitive content held as true
immaculate conception;the roman catholic doctrine that the virgin mary was conceived without any stain of original sin
hinduism;a complex of beliefs and values and customs including worship of many gods especially the trimurti composed of brahma the creator. vishnu the preserver. and shiva the destroyer
reconditeness;wisdom that is recondite and abstruse and profound. 'the anthropologist was impressed by the reconditeness of the native proverbs'
eisegesis;personal interpretation of a text (especially of the bible) using your own ideas
data;"a collection of facts from which conclusions may be drawn. 'statistical data'"
experience;the content of direct observation or participation in an event. 'he had a religious experience'. 'he recallled the experience vividly'
familiarization;the experience of becoming familiar with something
variation;something a little different from others of the same type. 'an experimental version of the night fighter'. 'an emery wheel is a modern variant of the grindstone'
adventism;any christian religion that believes the second coming of christ is imminent
visual percept;a percept that arises from the eyes. an image in the visual system
idealism;the doctrine that ideas are the only reality
law of the land;a phrase used in the magna carta to refer to the then established law of the kingdom (as distinct from roman or civil law). today it refers to fundamental principles of justice commensurate with due process (the us constitution establishes itself as 'the supreme law of the land')
jansenism;the roman catholic doctrine of cornelis jansen and his disciples. salvation is limited to those who are subject to supernatural determinism and the rest are assigned to perdition
islam;the monotheistic religion of muslims based on the koran
precept;a doctrine that is taught. 'the teaching of religion'. 'he believed all the christian precepts'
shamanism;an animistic religion of northern asia having the belief that the mediation between the visible and the spirit worlds is effected by shamans
stereotype;a conventional or formulaic conception or image: 'regional stereotypes have been part of america since its founding'
nature worship;a system of religion that deifies and worships natural forces and phenomena
perpendicular style;a gothic style in 14th and 15th century england. characterized by vertical lines, a four-centered (tudor) arch, fan vaulting
formalism;the doctrine that formal structure rather than content is what should be represented
abolitionism;the doctrine that calls for the abolition of slavery
originalism;the belief that the us constitution should be interpreted in the way the authors originally intended it
tantra;doctrine of enlightenment as the realization of the oneness of one's self and the visible world. combines elements of hinduism and paganism including magical and mystical elements like mantras and mudras and erotic rites. especially influential in tibet
pabulum;intellectual sustenance
good example;something to be imitated. 'an exemplar of success'. 'a model of clarity'. 'he is the very model of a modern major general'
revivalism;an attempt to reawaken the evangelical faith
irridentism;the doctrine that irredenta should be controlled by the country to which they are ethnically or historically related
monism;the doctrine that reality consists of a single basic substance or element
preoccupation;an idea that preoccupies the mind and holds the attention
idea;a personal view. 'he has an idea that we don't like him'
unknowingness;ignorance (especially of orthodox beliefs)
utilitarianism;doctrine that the useful is the good especially as elaborated by jeremy bentham and james mill the aim being the greatest happiness for of greatest number
nescience;ignorance (especially of orthodox beliefs)
lamaism;tibetan buddhist doctrine including non-buddhist indian elements and elements of preexisting shamanism
3d;having a three-dimentional form or appearance: 'aren't dreams always in 3-d?'
politics;the opinion you hold with respect to political questions
quackerism;doctrine characterized by opposition to war and rejection of ritual and a formal creed and an ordained ministry
federal job safety law;a law passed by us congress to prevent employees from being injured or contracting diseases in the course of their employment
protestantism;the theological system of any of the churches of western christendom that separated from the roman catholic church during the reformation
mercantile law;the body of rules applied to commercial transactions. derived from the practices of traders rather than from jurisprudence
perpendicular;a gothic style in 14th and 15th century england. characterized by vertical lines, a four-centered (tudor) arch, fan vaulting
drift;general meaning or tenor: 'caught the drift of the conversation'
vaisnavism;worship of vishnu one of the 3 chief gods of the hindu pantheon
tabu;a prejudice (especially in polynesia and other s pacific islands) that prohibits the use or mention of something because of its sacred nature
abstrusity;wisdom that is recondite and abstruse and profound. 'the anthropologist was impressed by the reconditeness of the native proverbs'
interpretation;a mental representation of the meaning or significance of something
implication;a meaning that is not expressly stated but can be inferred. 'the significance of his remark became clear only later'. 'the expectation was spread both by word and by implication'
trinitarianism;christian doctrine stressing belief in the trinity
unbelief;a rejection of belief
black art;the belief in magical spells that harness occult forces or evil spirits to produce unnatural effects in the world
mohammedanism;the monotheistic religion of muslims based on the koran
misunderstanding;an understanding of something that is not correct. 'he wasn't going to admit his mistake'. 'make no mistake about his intentions'. 'there must be some misunderstanding--i don't have a sister'
muhammadanism;the monotheistic religion of muslims based on the koran
promise;grounds for feeling hopeful about the future. 'there is little or no promise that he will recover'
freak out;a wild delusion (especially one induced by a hallucinogenic drug)
pacifism;the belief that all international disputes can be settled by arbitration
nihilism;a revolutionary doctrine that advocates destruction of the social system for its own sake
pantheism;belief in multiple gods
view;a personal belief that is not founded on proof or certainty. 'my opinion differs from yours'. 'what are your thoughts on haiti?'
imagination image;a mental image produced by the imagination
dualism;the doctrine that reality consists of two basic opposing elements, often taken to be mind and matter (or mind and body), or good and evil
majority rule;the doctrine that the numerical majority of an organized group can make decisions binding on the whole group
high anglicanism;a doctrine and practice within the church of england emphasizing the catholic tradition
sophistication;uplifting enlightenment
methodism;the religious beliefs and practices of methodists characterized by concern with social welfare and public morals
presbyterianism;the doctrines and practices of the presbyterian church: based in calvinism
exegesis;critical interpretation of a text (especially of the bible)
law merchant;the body of rules applied to commercial transactions. derived from the practices of traders rather than from jurisprudence
hinayana;one of two great schools of buddhist doctrine emphasizing personal salvation through one's own efforts. chiefly in sri_lanka (ceylon). myanmar (burma). thailand. cambodia
stage effect;a special effect created on the stage
millenarianism;belief in the christian doctrine of the millennium mentioned in the book of revelations
superstitious notion;an irrational belief arising from ignorance or fear
memory trace;a postulated biochemical change (presumably in neural tissue) that represents a memory
hang up;(informal) an emotional preoccupation
standard;the ideal in terms of which something can be judged. 'they live by the standards of their community'
stoicism;the philosophical system of the stoics following the teachings of the ancient greek philosopher zeno
effect;an impression (especially one that is artificial or contrived). 'he just did it for effect'
anabaptism;belief in: the primacy of the bible. baptism of believers not infants. complete separation of church and state
conjury;invoking a spirit or devil
gothic;a style of architecture developed in n france that spread throughout europe between the 12th and 16th centuries. characterized by slender vertical piers and counterbalancing buttresses and by vaulting and pointed arches
existentialist philosophy;a 20th-century philosophical movement. assumes that people are entirely free and thus responsible for what they make of themselves
flavor;(high energy physics) the kinds of quarks
way;a general category of things. used in the expression 'in the way of': 'they didn't have much in the way of clothing'
public knowledge;"knowledge that is available to anyone"
coast;the area within view. 'the coast is clear'
philosophical doctrine;a doctrine accepted by adherents to a philosophy
legislation;a law enacted by a legislative body
humanism;the doctrine that people's duty is to promote human welfare
vocabulary;"a language user's knowledge of words"
false belief;a misconception resulting from incorrect reasoning
pathetic fallacy;the fallacy of attributing human feelings to inanimate objects. 'the friendly sun' is an example of the pathetic fallacy
preemption;the judicial principle asserting the supremacy of federal over state legislation on the same subject
creationism;the literal belief in the account of creation given in the book of genesis. 'creationism denies the theory of evolution of species'
antinomianism;the theological doctrine that by faith and god's grace a christian is freed from all laws (including the moral standards of the culture)
formalism;the philosophical theory that formal (logical or mathematical) statements have no meaning but that its symbols (regarded as physical entities) exhibit a form that has useful applications
logical positivism;the form of empiricism that bases knowledge on perceptual experience
jumble;a theory or argument made up of miscellaneous or incongruous ideas
romanism;the beliefs and practices of the catholic church based in rome
testament;a profession of belief. 'he stated his political testament'
figure;a unitary percept having structure and coherence that is the object of attention and that stands out against a ground
memento mori;a reminder of your mortality
daoism;philosophical system developed by of lao-tzu and chuang-tzu advocating a simple honest life and noninterference with the course of natural events
deconstruction;a philosophical theory of criticism (usually of literature or film) that seeks to expose deep-seated contradictions in a work by delving below its surface meaning
ignorance;the lack of knowledge or education
belief;a vague idea in which some confidence is placed. 'his impression of her was favorable'. 'what are your feelings about the crisis?'. 'it strengthened my belief in his sincerity'
jus sanguinis;the principle that a person's nationality at birth is the same as that of his natural parents
pluralism;the doctrine that reality consists of several basic substances or elements
satanism;the worship of devils (especially satan)
nativity;the theological doctrine that jesus christ had no human father. christians believe that jesus's birth fulfilled old testament prophecies and was attended by miracles. the nativity is celebrated at christmas
incarnation;the christian doctrine of the union of god and man in the person of jesus christ
exorcism;freeing from evil spirits
bewitchment;a magical spell
idea;the content of cognition. the main thing you are thinking about. 'it was not a good idea'. 'the thought never entered my mind'
case law;(civil law) a law established by following earlier judicial decisions
cognitive content;"the sum or range of what has been perceived, discovered, or learned"
byzantinism;the doctrine that the state is supreme over the church in ecclesiastical matters
unorthodoxy;a belief that rejects the orthodox tenets of a religion
physicalism;the doctrine that matter is the only reality
memory image;a mental image of something previously experienced
erroneous belief;a misconception resulting from incorrect information
inexperience;lack of experience and the knowledge and understanding derived from experience
gothic architecture;a style of architecture developed in n france that spread throughout europe between the 12th and 16th centuries. characterized by slender vertical piers and counterbalancing buttresses and by vaulting and pointed arches
glimpse;a brief or incomplete view. 'from the window he could catch a glimpse of the lake'
naturalism;the doctrine that the world can be understood in scientific terms without recourse to spiritual or supernatural explanations
jus soli;the principle that a person's nationality at birth is determined by the place of birth
bauhaus;a german style of architecture begun by walter gropius in 1918
amateurism;the conviction that people should participate in sports as a hobby (for the fun of it) rather than for money
version;a mental representation of the meaning or significance of something
scene;the visual percept of a region. 'the most desirable feature of the park are the beautiful views'
opinion;a belief or sentiment shared by most people. the voice of the people. 'he asked for a poll of public opinion'
3 d;having a three-dimentional form or appearance: 'aren't dreams always in 3-d?'
religious belief;a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny. 'he lost his faith but not his morality'
notion;a whimsical idea. 'the theatrical notion of disguise is associated with disaster in his stories'
scepticism;the disbelief in any claims of ultimate knowledge
hindooism;a complex of beliefs and values and customs including worship of many gods especially the trimurti composed of brahma the creator. vishnu the preserver. and shiva the destroyer
synergism;the theological doctrine that salvation results from the interaction of human will and divine grace
tractarianism;principles of the founders of the oxford movement. expounded in pamphlets called 'tracts for the times'
church doctrine;the body of teachings of a religious group that are generally accepted by that group
administrative law;the body of rules and regulations and orders and decisions created by administrative agencies of government
phantasmagoria;a constantly changing medley or real or imagined images (as in a dream)
equalitarianism;the doctrine of the equality of mankind and the desirability of political and economic and social equality
existentialism;a 20th-century philosophical movement. assumes that people are entirely free and thus responsible for what they make of themselves
heart;the locus of feelings and intuitions. 'in your heart you know it is true'. 'her story would melt your bosom'
specter;a mental representation of some haunting experience. 'he looked like he had seen a ghost'. 'it aroused specters from his past'
variant;something a little different from others of the same type. 'an experimental version of the night fighter'. 'an emery wheel is a modern variant of the grindstone'
concept;an abstract or general idea inferred or derived from specific instances
arianism;the theological doctrine taught by arius that christ the son was not consubstantial with god the father
bosom;the locus of feelings and intuitions. 'in your heart you know it is true'. 'her story would melt your bosom'
voyeurism;preoccupation with seeing sex acts or sex organs of others
representation;a presentation to the mind in the form of an idea or image
brahmanism;the religious beliefs of ancient india as prescribed in the sacred vedas and brahmanas and upanishads
credo;any system of principles or beliefs
jurisprudence;"the collection of rules imposed by authority. 'civilization presupposes respect for the law'"
profundity;wisdom that is recondite and abstruse and profound. 'the anthropologist was impressed by the reconditeness of the native proverbs'
irrational hostility;extreme prejudice
deism;the form of theological rationalism that believes in god on the basis of reason without reference to revelation
nicene creed;a formal creed summarizing christian beliefs
cult;a system of religious beliefs and rituals
enlightenment;education that results in understanding and the spread of knowledge
ignoratio elenchi;the fallacy of supposing that an argument proving an irrelevant point has proved the point at issue
dark;an unenlightened state. 'he was in the dark concerning their intentions'. 'his lectures dispelled the darkness'
crossroads;a point where a choice must be made. 'freud's work stands at the crossroads between psychology and neurology'
theism;the doctrine or belief in the existence of a god or gods
scruple;an ethical or moral principle that inhibits action
muslimism;the monotheistic religion of muslims based on the koran
real presence;the christian doctrine that the body of christ is actually present in the eucharist
witchery;the art of sorcery
appearance;a mental representation. 'i tried to describe his appearance to the police'
persuasion;a personal belief that is not founded on proof or certainty. 'my opinion differs from yours'. 'what are your thoughts on haiti?'
whimsy;a whimsical idea. 'the theatrical notion of disguise is associated with disaster in his stories'
construct;an abstract or general idea inferred or derived from specific instances
preconceived idea;an opinion formed without adequate evidence. 'he did not even try to confirm his preconceptions'
determination;a position or opinion or judgment reached after consideration: 'a decision unfavorable to the opposition'. 'his conclusion took the evidence into accout'. 'satisfied with the panel's determination'
raw data;unanalyzed data. data not yet subjected to analysis
eastern catholicism;the beliefs and practices of any of the eastern catholic churches based in constantinople
parseeism;zoroastrian sect in india
anticipation;something expected (as on the basis of a norm). 'each of them had their own anticipations'. 'an indicator of expectancy in development'
aftersensation;an image (usually a negative image) that persists after stimulation has ceased
background;the part of a scene (or picture) that lies behind objects in the foreground. 'he posed her against a background of rolling hillls'
eyes;opinion or judgment. 'in the eyes of the law' or 'i was wrong in her eyes'
enchantment;a magical spell
mirage;something illusory and unattainable
phantasy;something many people believe that is false. 'they have the illusion that i am very wealthy'
ilk;a kind of person. 'i don't like people of his ilk'
overlap;a representation of common ground between theories or phenomena. 'there was no overlap between their proposals'
determinism;a philosophical doctrine holding that all events are inevitable consequences of antecedent sufficient causes. often understood as denying the possibility of free will
flying saucer;an (apparently) flying object whose nature is unknown. especially those considered to have extraterrestrial origins
scholarship;profound knowledge
imitation;the doctrine that representations of nature or human behavior should be accurate imitations
individualism;a belief in the importance of the individual and the virtue of self-reliance and personal independence
undercurrent;subdued emotional quality underlying an utterance. implicit meaning
schema;an internal representation of the world. an organization of concepts and actions that can be revised by new information about the world
lexicon;"a language user's knowledge of words"
mimesis;the imitative representation of nature and human behavior in art and literature
statutory law;the body of laws created by legislative statutes
english gothic;a gothic style in 14th and 15th century england. characterized by vertical lines, a four-centered (tudor) arch, fan vaulting
predestination;(theology) the doctrine (usually associated with calvin) that god has foreordained every event throughout eternity (including the final salvation of mankind)
mithraism;ancient persian religion. popular among romans during first three centuries a.d.
foreground;the part of a scene that is near the viewer
maritime law;the traditional body of rules and practices relating to commerce and navigation or to business transacted at sea or to general maritime affairs
subjectivism;the doctrine that knowledge and value are dependent on and limited by your subjective experience
notion;a vague idea in which some confidence is placed. 'his impression of her was favorable'. 'what are your feelings about the crisis?'. 'it strengthened my belief in his sincerity'
whim;a whimsical idea. 'the theatrical notion of disguise is associated with disaster in his stories'
vox populi;a belief or sentiment shared by most people. the voice of the people. 'he asked for a poll of public opinion'
information;"a collection of facts from which conclusions may be drawn. 'statistical data'"
education;knowledge acquired by learning and instruction. 'it was clear that he had a very broad education'
religion;a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny. 'he lost his faith but not his morality'
recollection;something recalled to the mind
animalism;the doctrine that human beings are purely animal in nature and lacking a spiritual nature
species;a specific kind of something: 'a species of molecule'. 'a species of villainy'
reading;a mental representation of the meaning or significance of something
convergence;a representation of common ground between theories or phenomena. 'there was no overlap between their proposals'
law of nations;the body of laws governing relations between nations
disbelief;a rejection of belief
view;the visual percept of a region. 'the most desirable feature of the park are the beautiful views'
semiotics;a philosophical theory of the functions of signs and symbols
error;a misconception resulting from incorrect information
fundamentalism;the interpretation of every word in the bible as literal truth
unilateralism;the doctrine that nations should conduct their foreign affairs individualistically without the advice or involvement of other nations
psychosexuality;the mental representation of sexual activities
free thought;the form of theological rationalism that believes in god on the basis of reason without reference to revelation
expansionism;the doctrine of expanding the territory or the economic influence of a country
humanism;the doctrine emphasizing a person's capacity for self-realization through reason. rejects religion and the supernatural
secularism;a doctrine that rejects religion and religious considerations
astrology;a pseudoscience claiming divination by the positions of the planets and sun and moon
concrete representation;a representation of an abstract idea in concrete terms
gospel;the body of teachings of a religious group that are generally accepted by that group
supernaturalism;a belief in forces beyond ordinary human understanding
version;something a little different from others of the same type. 'an experimental version of the night fighter'. 'an emery wheel is a modern variant of the grindstone'
panorama;the visual percept of a region. 'the most desirable feature of the park are the beautiful views'
thing in itself;the intellectual conception of a thing as it is in itself, not as it is known through perception
control condition;a standard against which other conditions can be compared in a scientific experiment. 'the control condition was inappropriate for the conclusions he wished to draw'
congregationalism;system of beliefs and church government of a protestant denomination in which each member church is self-governing
byzantine;the style of architecture developed in the byzantine empire. massive domes with square bases and rounded arches and spires and minarets and much use of mosaics
black magic;the belief in magical spells that harness occult forces or evil spirits to produce unnatural effects in the world
three d;having a three-dimentional form or appearance: 'aren't dreams always in 3-d?'
front;the outward appearance of a person. 'he put up a bold front'
hodgepodge;a theory or argument made up of miscellaneous or incongruous ideas
juju;the power associated with a juju
noumenon;the intellectual conception of a thing as it is in itself, not as it is known through perception
apprehension;painful expectation
exposure;aspect re light or wind. 'the studio had a northern exposure'
will o  the wisp;an illusion that misleads
operationalism;the doctrine that the meaning of a proposition consists of the operations involved in proving or applying it
presence;the impression that something is present. 'he felt the presence of an evil force'
real world;the practical world as opposed to the academic world. 'a good consultant must have a lot of experience in the real world'
concretism;a representation of an abstract idea in concrete terms
paralogism;an unintentionally invalid argument
rugged individualism;individualism in social and economic affairs. belief not only in personal liberty and self-reliance but also in free competition
extension;the class of objects that an expression refers to. 'the extension of 'satellite of mars' is the set containing only demos and phobos'
religious mysticism;a religion based on mystical communion with an ultimate reality
irredentism;the doctrine that irredenta should be controlled by the country to which they are ethnically or historically related
pseudoscience;an activity resembling science but based on fallacious assumptions
criterion;the ideal in terms of which something can be judged. 'they live by the standards of their community'
fetichism;a belief in the magical power of fetishes (or the worship of a fetish)
shintoism;the indigenous polytheistic religion of japan lacking organized teachings. primarily nature and ancestor worship including a chief deity from whom the emperor is believed to be descended
real life;the practical world as opposed to the academic world. 'a good consultant must have a lot of experience in the real world'
conceptualization;an elaborated concept
moorish;a style of architecture common in spain from the 13th to 16th centuries. characterized by the horseshoe (moorish) arch
skepticism;the disbelief in any claims of ultimate knowledge
meliorism;the belief that the world can be made better by human effort
property;a construct whereby objects or individuals can be distinguished. 'self-confidence is not an endearing property'
history;"all that is remembered of the past as preserved in writing. a body of knowledge: 'the dawn of recorded history'. 'from the beginning of history'"
the like;a similar kind. 'dogs, foxes, and the like', 'we don't want the likes of you around here'
vista;the visual percept of a region. 'the most desirable feature of the park are the beautiful views'
brahminism;the religious beliefs of ancient india as prescribed in the sacred vedas and brahmanas and upanishads
pillar;a fundamental principle or practice. 'science eroded the pillars of superstition'
intersection;a representation of common ground between theories or phenomena. 'there was no overlap between their proposals'
romanesque architecture;a style of architecture developed in italy and western europe between the roman and the gothic styles after 1000 ad. characterized by round arches and vaults and by the substitution of piers for columns and profuse ornament and arcades
perfection;an ideal instance. a perfect embodiment of a concept
phantom;something existing in perception only: 'a ghostly apparition at midnight'
memory picture;a memory image that is similar to a visual perception
quietism;a form of religious mysticism requiring withdrawal from all human effort and passive contemplation of god
disillusionment;freeing from false belief or illusions
sacerdotalism;a belief that priests can act as mediators between human beings and god
kind;a category of things distinguished by some common characteristic or quality. 'sculpture is a form of art'. 'what kinds of desserts are there?'
reference;the class of objects that an expression refers to. 'the extension of 'satellite of mars' is the set containing only demos and phobos'
hellenism;the principles and ideals associated with classical greek civilization
fantasy;something many people believe that is false. 'they have the illusion that i am very wealthy'
doctrine;a belief (or system of beliefs) accepted as authoritative by some group or school
baptistic doctrine;any of various doctrines closely related to anabaptism
catholicity;the beliefs and practices of a catholic church
greco roman architecture;architecture influenced by the ancient greeks or romans
romanesque;a style of architecture developed in italy and western europe between the roman and the gothic styles after 1000 ad. characterized by round arches and vaults and by the substitution of piers for columns and profuse ornament and arcades
visual image;a mental image that is similar to a visual perception
possibility;a future prospect or potential. 'this room has great possibilities'
erudition;profound knowledge
animism;the doctrine that all natural objects and the universe itself have souls. 'animism is common among primitive peoples'
philosophy;any personal belief about how to live or how to deal with a situation. 'self-indulgence was his only philosophy'. 'my father's philosophy of child-rearing was to let mother do it'
conceptuality;an elaborated concept
sensationalism;the ethical doctrine that feeling is the only criterion for what is good
ignis fatuus;an illusion that misleads
tradition;an inherited pattern of thought or action
mental object;"the sum or range of what has been perceived, discovered, or learned"
polytheism;belief in multiple gods
intuitionism;the doctrine that knowledge is acquired primarily by intuition
star divination;a pseudoscience claiming divination by the positions of the planets and sun and moon
conceptualism;the doctrine that the application of a general term to various objects indicates the existence of a mental entity that mediates the application
idol;an ideal instance. a perfect embodiment of a concept
spiritualism;the belief that the spirits of dead people can communicate with people who are still alive (especially via a medium)
foreordination;(theology) the doctrine (usually associated with calvin) that god has foreordained every event throughout eternity (including the final salvation of mankind)
pole;one of two divergent or mutually exclusive opinions. 'they are at opposite poles' or 'they are poles apart'
beaut;an outstanding example of its kind. 'his roses were beauties'. 'when i make a mistake it's a beaut'
common law;(civil law) a law established by following earlier judicial decisions
secessionism;a doctrine that maintains the right of secession
mental image;an iconic mental representation. 'her imagination forced images upon her too awful to contemplate'
mithraicism;ancient persian religion. popular among romans during first three centuries a.d.
positivism;the form of empiricism that bases knowledge on perceptual experience
english gothic architecture;a gothic style in 14th and 15th century england. characterized by vertical lines, a four-centered (tudor) arch, fan vaulting
revealed religion;a religion founded primarily on the revelations of god to humankind
trust;complete confidence in a person or plan etc. 'he cherished the faith of a good woman'. 'the doctor-patient relationship is based on trust'
illusion;an erroneous mental representation
outlook;belief about (or mental picture of) the future
engram;a postulated biochemical change (presumably in neural tissue) that represents a memory
category;a general concept that marks divisions or coordinations in a conceptual scheme
conjuring;invoking a spirit or devil
taoism;popular chinese philosophical system based in teachings of lao-tse but characterized by a pantheism of many gods and the practices of alchemy and divination and magic
middle distance;the part of a scene between the foreground and the background
hunch;an impression that something might be the case. 'he had an intuition that something had gone wrong'
learnedness;profound knowledge
idealization;something that exists only as an idea
beau ideal;an ideal instance. a perfect embodiment of a concept
taoism;philosophical system developed by of lao-tzu and chuang-tzu advocating a simple honest life and noninterference with the course of natural events
sophism;a deliberately invalid argument displaying ingenuity in reasoning in the hope of deceiving someone
christianity;the system of christian beliefs and practices
expectation;belief about (or mental picture of) the future
living;the experience of living. the course of human events and activities. 'he could no longer cope with the complexities of life'
keynote;a fundamental or central idea
blur;a hazy or indistinct representation. 'it happened so fast it was just a blur'. 'he tried to clear his head of the whisky fuzz'
preconceived opinion;an opinion formed without adequate evidence. 'he did not even try to confirm his preconceptions'
impression;a vague idea in which some confidence is placed. 'his impression of her was favorable'. 'what are your feelings about the crisis?'. 'it strengthened my belief in his sincerity'
vitalism;a doctrine that life is a vital principle distinct from physics and chemistry
behmenism;the mystical theological doctrine of jakob boehme that influenced the quakers
rationalism;the doctrine that reason is the right basis for regulating conduct
ufo;an (apparently) flying object whose nature is unknown. especially those considered to have extraterrestrial origins
ground;the part of a scene (or picture) that lies behind objects in the foreground. 'he posed her against a background of rolling hillls'
pagan religion;any of various religions other than christianity or judaism or islamism
strong belief;an unshakable belief in something without need for proof or evidence
mental picture;a clear and telling mental image. 'he described his mental picture of his assailant'. 'he had no clear picture of himself or his world'. 'the events left a permanent impression in his mind'
rosicrucianism;the theological doctrine that venerates the rose and the cross as symbols of christ's resurrection and redemption. claims various occult powers
laws of moses;the laws (beginning with the ten commandments) that god gave to the israelites through moses. it includes many rules of religious observance given in the first five books of the old testament (in judaism these books are called the torah)
decision;a position or opinion or judgment reached after consideration: 'a decision unfavorable to the opposition'. 'his conclusion took the evidence into accout'. 'satisfied with the panel's determination'
sophistry;a deliberately invalid argument displaying ingenuity in reasoning in the hope of deceiving someone
alchemy;a pseudoscientific predecessor of chemistry. sought to turn base metals into gold
generalization;an idea having general application. 'he spoke in broad generalities'
adjuration;calling up supposed supernatural forces by spells and incantations
delusion;a mistaken opinion or idea. 'he has delusions of competence'
side view;a view from the side of something
thomism;the comprehensive theological doctrine created by saint thomas aquinas in the 13th century and still taught by the dominicans
seventh day adventism;adventism that is strongly protestant and observes saturday as the sabbath
monotheism;belief in a single god
introject;(psychoanalysis) a parental figures (and their values) that you introjected as a child. the voice of conscience is usually a parent's voice internalized
self absorption;preoccupation with yourself to the exclusion of everything else
chartism;the principles of a body of 19th century english reformers who advocated better social and economic conditions for working people
conviction;an unshakable belief in something without need for proof or evidence
yoga;a hindu theistic philosophy. union of self and the supreme being is sought through a state of complete awareness and tranquillity attained by certain physical exercises
model;a type of product. 'his car was an old model'
ism;a belief (or system of beliefs) accepted as authoritative by some group or school
dimension;a construct whereby objects or individuals can be distinguished. 'self-confidence is not an endearing property'
notion;a general inclusive concept
precedent;(civil law) a law established by following earlier judicial decisions
chivalry;the medieval principles of knighthood
probabilism;the doctrine that (since certainty is unattainable) probability is a sufficient basis for belief and action
inkling;a slight suggestion. 'he had no inkling what was about to happen'
christian religion;the system of christian beliefs and practices
voodoo;a religious cult practiced chiefly in caribbean countries (especially haiti). involves witchcraft and animistic deities
philosophy;a belief (or system of beliefs) accepted as authoritative by some group or school
style;a particular kind (as to appearance). 'this style of shoe is in demand'
intellectual nourishment;intellectual sustenance
theurgy;magic performed with the help of beneficent spirits
undertone;subdued emotional quality underlying an utterance. implicit meaning
mind;an opinion formed by judging something. 'he was reluctant to make his judgment known'. 'she changed her mind'
teaching;a doctrine that is taught. 'the teaching of religion'. 'he believed all the christian precepts'
petitio principii;the fallacy of assuming the conclusion in the premises. begging the question
evocation;calling up supposed supernatural forces by spells and incantations
law;"the collection of rules imposed by authority. 'civilization presupposes respect for the law'"
total depravity;the calvinist doctrine that everyone is born in a state of corruption as a result of original sin
preordination;(theology) the doctrine (usually associated with calvin) that god has foreordained every event throughout eternity (including the final salvation of mankind)
classical architecture;architecture influenced by the ancient greeks or romans
food for thought;intellectual sustenance
wraith;a mental representation of some haunting experience. 'he looked like he had seen a ghost'. 'it aroused specters from his past'
lexis;"all of the words in a language. all word forms having meaning or grammatical function"
platonism;the philosophical doctrine that abstract concepts exist independent of their names
individualism;the doctrine that government should not interfere in commercial affairs
whimsey;a whimsical idea. 'the theatrical notion of disguise is associated with disaster in his stories'
roman catholicism;the beliefs and practices of the catholic church based in rome
mentalism;a doctrine that mind the true reality and that objects exist only as aspects of the mind's awareness
ecumenicalism;the doctrine of the ecumenical movement promoting cooperation and better understanding among different religious denominations. aimed at universal christian unity
inspiration;arousal of the mind to special unusual activity or creativity
shivaism;worship of shiva one of the 3 chief gods of the hindu pantheon
creation science;an effort to give scientific support for the truth of the account of creation given in the book of genesis
preconceived notion;an opinion formed without adequate evidence. 'he did not even try to confirm his preconceptions'
pattern;a model considered worthy of imitation. 'the american constitution has provided a pattern for many republics'
shaktism;worship of shakti as the wife of shiva
puseyism;principles of the founders of the oxford movement. expounded in pamphlets called 'tracts for the times'
martial law;the body of law imposed by the military over civilian affairs (usually in time of war or civil crisis). overrides civil law
zen;doctrine that enlightenment can be attained through direct intuitive insight
art form;a form of artistic expression (such as writing or painting or architecture)
visualisation;a mental image that is similar to a visual perception
theanthropism;(theology) the doctrine that jesus was a union of the human and the divine
literalism;the doctrine of realistic (literal) portrayal in art or literature
surface;information that has become public. 'all the reports were out in the open'. 'the facts had been brought to the surface'
vishnuism;worship of vishnu one of the 3 chief gods of the hindu pantheon
witchcraft;the art of sorcery
shape;a concrete representation of an otherwise nebulous concept. 'a circle was the embodiment of his concept of life'
obsession;an unhealthy preoccupation with something or someone
atheism;a lack of belief in the existence of god or gods
materialism;the doctrine that matter is the only reality
dogma;a doctrine or code of beliefs accepted as authoritative. 'he believed all the marxist dogma'
school of thought;a belief (or system of beliefs) accepted as authoritative by some group or school
seed;anything that provides inspiration for later work
sort;a category of things distinguished by some common characteristic or quality. 'sculpture is a form of art'. 'what kinds of desserts are there?'
mahayana;one of two great schools of buddhist doctrine emphasizing a common search for universal salvation especially through faith alone. chiefly in china. tibet. japan
byzantine architecture;the style of architecture developed in the byzantine empire. massive domes with square bases and rounded arches and spires and minarets and much use of mosaics
scholasticism;the system of philosophy dominant in medieval europe. based on aristotle and the church fathers
perceptual experience;the representation of what is perceived. basic component in the formation of a concept
misconception;an incorrect conception
quakerism;the theological beliefs of the society of friends
greek architecture;the architecture of ancient greece
exemplar;something to be imitated. 'an exemplar of success'. 'a model of clarity'. 'he is the very model of a modern major general'
saktism;worship of shakti as the wife of shiva
arminianism;doctrines of jacobus arminius (1610) rejecting absolute predestination or strict calvinism
wesleyanism;evangelical principles taught by john wesley
judaism;the monotheistic religion of the jews. based on the old testament and the talmud
visual image;a percept that arises from the eyes. an image in the visual system
faith;complete confidence in a person or plan etc. 'he cherished the faith of a good woman'. 'the doctor-patient relationship is based on trust'
lutheranism;teachings of martin luther emphasizing the cardinal doctrine of justification by faith alone
enabling legislation;legislation that gives appropriate officials the authority to implement or enforce the law
rastafarianism;belief in ras tafari (haile selassie of ethiopia) as the messiah and that africa (especially ethiopia) is the promised land
percept;the representation of what is perceived. basic component in the formation of a concept
confucianism;the teachings of confucius emphasizing love for humanity. high value given to learning and to devotion to family (including ancestors). peace. justice. influenced the traditional culture of china
catholicism;the beliefs and practices of a catholic church
judgement;an opinion formed by judging something. 'he was reluctant to make his judgment known'. 'she changed her mind'
freethinking;the doctrine that reason is the right basis for regulating conduct
life;the experience of living. the course of human events and activities. 'he could no longer cope with the complexities of life'
shade;a mental representation of some haunting experience. 'he looked like he had seen a ghost'. 'it aroused specters from his past'
hsuan chiao;popular chinese philosophical system based in teachings of lao-tse but characterized by a pantheism of many gods and the practices of alchemy and divination and magic
conjuration;invoking a spirit or devil
belief;a religious doctrine that is proclaimed as true without proof
apparition;something existing in perception only: 'a ghostly apparition at midnight'
sivaism;worship of shiva one of the 3 chief gods of the hindu pantheon
sensationalism;the doctrine that knowledge derives from experience
admiralty law;the traditional body of rules and practices relating to commerce and navigation or to business transacted at sea or to general maritime affairs
shingon;a japanese buddhism emphasizing mystical symbolism of mantras and mudras and the buddha's ideal which is inexpressible
antitype;a person or thing represented or foreshadowed by a type or symbol. especially a figure in the old testament having a counterpart in the new testament
dialectical materialism;the materialistic philosophy of karl marx and friedrich engels
prospect;belief about (or mental picture of) the future
make;a recognizable kind. 'there's a new brand of hero in the movies now'. 'what make of car is that?'
civil law;the body of laws established by a state or nation for its own regulation
shadow;something existing in perception only: 'a ghostly apparition at midnight'
general knowledge;"knowledge that is available to anyone"
disenchantment;freeing from false belief or illusions
transubstantiation;the roman catholic doctrine that the whole substance of the bread and the wine changes into the substance of the body and blood of christ when consecrated in the eucharist
visual field;all of the points of the physical environment that can be perceived by a stable eye at a given moment
brand;a recognizable kind. 'there's a new brand of hero in the movies now'. 'what make of car is that?'
fuzz;a hazy or indistinct representation. 'it happened so fast it was just a blur'. 'he tried to clear his head of the whisky fuzz'
germ;anything that provides inspiration for later work
reference;the relation between a word or phrase and the object or idea it refers to. 'he argued that reference is a consequence of conditioned reflexes'
realism;the philosophical doctrine that physical object continue to exist when not perceived
content;"the sum or range of what has been perceived, discovered, or learned"
knowledge base;the content of a particular domain or field of knowledge
eruditeness;profound knowledge
obiism;belief in a kind of sorcery that originated in africa and is practiced in the west indies
self deception;a misconception that is favorable to the person who holds it
life expectancy;an expected time to live as calculated on the basis of statistical probabilities
architectural style;architecture as a kind of art form
rationalism;the theological doctrine that human reason rather than divine revelation establishes religious truth
embodiment;a concrete representation of an otherwise nebulous concept. 'a circle was the embodiment of his concept of life'
empiricist philosophy;the doctrine that knowledge derives from experience
edification;uplifting enlightenment
aesthetic;a philosophical theory as to what is beautiful. 'he despised the esthetic of minimalism'
thought;the content of cognition. the main thing you are thinking about. 'it was not a good idea'. 'the thought never entered my mind'
functionalism;any doctrine that stresses utility or purpose
autotelism;belief that a work of art is an end in itself or its own justification
totemism;belief in the kinship of a group of people with a common totem
legal principle;a principle underlying the formulation of jurisprudence
securities law;the body of laws governing the issuance and selling of securities
world;all of your experiences that determine how things appear to you. 'his world was shattered'. 'we live in different worlds'. 'for them demons were as much a part of reality as trees were'
solipsism;the philosophical theory that the self is all that you know to exist
obi;a religious belief of african origin involving witchcraft and sorcery. practiced in parts of the west indies and tropical americas
ground;a relatively homogeneous percept extending back of the figure on which attention is focused
macumba;a brazilian religious cult of african origin. combines voodoo elements with singing a chanting and dancing
mormonism;the doctrines and practices of the mormon church based on the book of mormon
christian science;religious system based on teachings of mary baker eddy emphasizing spiritual healing
athanasianism;the theological doctrine taught by athanasius that christ the son is of the same substance as god the father
patchwork;a theory or argument made up of miscellaneous or incongruous ideas
canon law;the body of codified laws governing the affairs of a christian church
physical education;training in the development of and care for the human body. stresses athletics. includes hygiene
ecumenism;the doctrine of the ecumenical movement promoting cooperation and better understanding among different religious denominations. aimed at universal christian unity
teleology;a doctrine explaining phenomena by their ends or purposes
phantom limb;the illusion that a limb still exists after it has been amputated
misapprehension;an understanding of something that is not correct. 'he wasn't going to admit his mistake'. 'make no mistake about his intentions'. 'there must be some misunderstanding--i don't have a sister'
sense;the idea that is intended. 'what is the sense of this proverb?'
aspect;the visual percept of a region. 'the most desirable feature of the park are the beautiful views'
naive realism;the philosophical doctrine that physical object continue to exist when not perceived
disorientation;a wild delusion (especially one induced by a hallucinogenic drug)
interface;the overlap where two theories or phenomena affect each other or have links with each other. 'the interface between chemistry and biology'
perception;a way of conceiving something. 'luther had a new perception of the bible'
value system;the principles of right and wrong that are accepted by an individual or a social group. 'the puritan ethic'. 'a person with old-fashioned values'
vodoun;a religious cult practiced chiefly in caribbean countries (especially haiti). involves witchcraft and animistic deities
heresy;a belief that rejects the orthodox tenets of a religion
public opinion;a belief or sentiment shared by most people. the voice of the people. 'he asked for a poll of public opinion'
generality;an idea having general application. 'he spoke in broad generalities'
ecclesiastical law;the body of codified laws governing the affairs of a christian church
erastianism;the doctrine that the state is supreme over the church in ecclesiastical matters
impression;a clear and telling mental image. 'he described his mental picture of his assailant'. 'he had no clear picture of himself or his world'. 'the events left a permanent impression in his mind'
ego ideal;an ideal of personal excellence toward which a person strives
hoodooism;a religious cult practiced chiefly in caribbean countries (especially haiti). involves witchcraft and animistic deities
agnosticism;the disbelief in any claims of ultimate knowledge
wisdom;accumulated knowledge or erudition or enlightenment
tenor;pervading note of an utterance. 'i could follow the general tenor of his argument'
egalitarianism;the doctrine of the equality of mankind and the desirability of political and economic and social equality
buddhism;the ethical philosophy of buddha. emphasizes physical and spiritual discipline as a means of liberation from the physical world
zoroastrianism;system founded in persia in the 6th century b.c. by zoroaster. set forth in the zend-avesta. based on concept of struggle between light (good) and dark (evil)
description;sort or variety. 'every description of book was there'
commercial law;the body of rules applied to commercial transactions. derived from the practices of traders rather than from jurisprudence
post hoc;the fallacy of believing that temporal succession implies a causal relation
control;a standard against which other conditions can be compared in a scientific experiment. 'the control condition was inappropriate for the conclusions he wished to draw'
ignorantness;ignorance (especially of orthodox beliefs)
demonism;the worship of devils (especially satan)
traditionalism;the doctrine that all knowledge was originally derived by divine revelation and that it is transmitted by traditions
acculturation;all the knowledge and values shared by a society
golden rule;a command based on jesus' words in the sermon on the mount: 'whatsoever ye would that men do unto you, do you even so unto them' (maththew 7:12)
taboo;a prejudice (especially in polynesia and other s pacific islands) that prohibits the use or mention of something because of its sacred nature
special effect;an effect used to produce scenes that cannot be achieved by normal techniques (especially on film)
abstraction;a concept or idea not associated with any specific instance. 'he loved her only in the abstract--not in person'
empiricism;the doctrine that knowledge derives from experience
unrealism;a representation having no reference to concrete objects or specific examples
victorian architecture;a style of architecture used in england during the reign of queen victoria. characterized by massive construction and elaborate ornamentation
epicureanism;a doctrine of hedonsim that was defended by several ancient greek philosophers
tantrism;doctrine of enlightenment as the realization of the oneness of one's self and the visible world. combines elements of hinduism and paganism including magical and mystical elements like mantras and mudras and erotic rites. especially influential in tibet
wesleyism;evangelical principles taught by john wesley
sound effect;an effect that imitates a sound called for in the script of a play
memory;something that is remembered. 'search as he would, the memory was lost'
athanasian creed;a christian profession of faith
idealisation;something that exists only as an idea
muse;the source of an artist's inspiration. 'euterpe was his muse'
strain;pervading note of an utterance. 'i could follow the general tenor of his argument'
attribute;a construct whereby objects or individuals can be distinguished. 'self-confidence is not an endearing property'
variety;a specific kind of something: 'a species of molecule'. 'a species of villainy'
learning;profound knowledge
experimentalism;an empirical doctrine that advocates experimental principles
shamanism;any animistic religion similar to asian shamanism especially as practiced by certain native american tribes
abstruseness;wisdom that is recondite and abstruse and profound. 'the anthropologist was impressed by the reconditeness of the native proverbs'
internal representation;a presentation to the mind in the form of an idea or image
pacifism;the doctrine that all violence in unjustifiable
hoodoo;a practitioner of voodoo
significance;a meaning that is not expressly stated but can be inferred. 'the significance of his remark became clear only later'. 'the expectation was spread both by word and by implication'
field of view;the area that is visible through an optical instrument
esthetic;a philosophical theory as to what is beautiful. 'he despised the esthetic of minimalism'
auditory image;a mental image that is similar to an auditory perception
tableau;any dramatic scene
summoning;calling up supposed supernatural forces by spells and incantations
intuition;an impression that something might be the case. 'he had an intuition that something had gone wrong'
conception;an abstract or general idea inferred or derived from specific instances
nativism;the philosophical doctrine that some ideas are innate
knowledge domain;the content of a particular domain or field of knowledge
form;a category of things distinguished by some common characteristic or quality. 'sculpture is a form of art'. 'what kinds of desserts are there?'
semblance;an erroneous mental representation
judicial principle;a principle underlying the formulation of jurisprudence
universalism;the theological doctrine that all people will eventually be saved
import;a meaning that is not expressly stated but can be inferred. 'the significance of his remark became clear only later'. 'the expectation was spread both by word and by implication'
model;something to be imitated. 'an exemplar of success'. 'a model of clarity'. 'he is the very model of a modern major general'
ghost;a mental representation of some haunting experience. 'he looked like he had seen a ghost'. 'it aroused specters from his past'
antitrust legislation;legislation intended to promote free competition in the market place by outlawing monopolies
open;information that has become public. 'all the reports were out in the open'. 'the facts had been brought to the surface'
intimation;a slight suggestion. 'he had no inkling what was about to happen'
absolutism;the doctrine of an absolute being
type of architecture;architecture as a kind of art form
substance;the idea that is intended. 'what is the sense of this proverb?'
