position;the particular portion of space occupied by a physical object: 'he put the lamp back in its place'
heavenly city;other phrases used to refer to heaven. 'the celestial city was christian's goal in bunyan's 'pilgrim's progress''
planetary house;"one of 12 equal areas into which the zodiac is divided"
libra the balance;the seventh sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from september 23 to october 22
bosom of abraham;(in the gospel of luke 16:22). the place where the just enjoy the peace of heaven after death
sign;"one of 12 equal areas into which the zodiac is divided"
geographical point;a point on the surface of the earth
mansion;"one of 12 equal areas into which the zodiac is divided"
scheol;(in various religions) the world of the dead. 'he didn't want to go to hell when he died'
zion;an imaginary place considered to be perfect or ideal
tartarus;a place where the wicked are punished after death
valhalla;a heavenly place--preaceful and beautiful--where those who are favored by the gods can go when they die
repository;a burial vault (usually for some famous person)
topographic point;a point located with respect to surface features of some region. 'this is a nice place for a picnic'
elysian fields;a heavenly place--preaceful and beautiful--where those who are favored by the gods can go when they die
aries;the first sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from march 21 to april 19
limbo;(theology) the abode of infants who die before baptism
afterworld;the place where you are after you die
aries the ram;the first sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from march 21 to april 19
dreamworld;a pleasing country existing only in dreams or imagination
city of god;other phrases used to refer to heaven. 'the celestial city was christian's goal in bunyan's 'pilgrim's progress''
spot;a point located with respect to surface features of some region. 'this is a nice place for a picnic'
virgo;the sixth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from august 23 to september 22
sepulcher;a chamber that is used as a grave
po box number;the number of a letter box at the post office where mail is collected
vault;a burial chamber (usually underground)
street address;the address where a person or organization can be found
heaven;the abode of god and the angels and the souls of those who have gained salvation
hell;(christianity) the abode of satan and the forces of evil. where sinners suffer eternal punishment: 'hurl'd headlong...to bottomless perdition, there to dwell'- john milton. 'a demon from the depths of the pit'
place;a point located with respect to surface features of some region. 'this is a nice place for a picnic'
benthos;a region including the bottom of the sea and the littoral zones
point;the precise location of something. a spatially limited location. 'she walked to a point where she could survey the whole street'
address;"the place where a person or organization can be found or communicated with"
leo;the fifth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from july 23 to august 22
abraham s bosom;(in the gospel of luke 16:22). the place where the just enjoy the peace of heaven after death
burial vault;a burial chamber (usually underground)
elysium;a heavenly place--preaceful and beautiful--where those who are favored by the gods can go when they die
underworld;(in various religions) the world of the dead. 'he didn't want to go to hell when he died'
grave;"a place for the burial of a corpse (especially beneath the ground and marked by a tombstone). 'he put flowers on his mother's grave'"
sagittarius;the ninth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from november 22 to december 21
gemini the twins;the third sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from may 21 to june 20
business address;the address at which a business is located
infernal region;(christianity) the abode of satan and the forces of evil. where sinners suffer eternal punishment: 'hurl'd headlong...to bottomless perdition, there to dwell'- john milton. 'a demon from the depths of the pit'
cancer the crab;the fourth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from june 21 to july 22
hell;(in various religions) the world of the dead. 'he didn't want to go to hell when he died'
capricorn;the tenth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from december 22 to january 19
fairyland;the enchanted realm of fairies
biogeographical region;"an area of the earth determined by distribution of flora and fauna"
red region;a place of eternal fire envisaged as punishment for the damned
gehenna;a place where the wicked are punished after death
sepulchre;a chamber that is used as a grave
benthic division;a region including the bottom of the sea and the littoral zones
eden;a beautiful garden where adam and eve were placed at the creation. when they disobeyed and ate the forbidden fruit from the tree of knowledge of good and evil they were driven from their paradise (the fall of man)
gemini;the third sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from may 21 to june 20
nether region;(christianity) the abode of satan and the forces of evil. where sinners suffer eternal punishment: 'hurl'd headlong...to bottomless perdition, there to dwell'- john milton. 'a demon from the depths of the pit'
netherworld;(in various religions) the world of the dead. 'he didn't want to go to hell when he died'
libra the scales;the seventh sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from september 23 to october 22
purgatory;(theology) a place where roman catholics think those who have died in a state of grace undergo limited torment to expiate their sins
perdition;(christianity) the abode of satan and the forces of evil. where sinners suffer eternal punishment: 'hurl'd headlong...to bottomless perdition, there to dwell'- john milton. 'a demon from the depths of the pit'
the pit;(christianity) the abode of satan and the forces of evil. where sinners suffer eternal punishment: 'hurl'd headlong...to bottomless perdition, there to dwell'- john milton. 'a demon from the depths of the pit'
hel;(in various religions) the world of the dead. 'he didn't want to go to hell when he died'
dreamland;a pleasing country existing only in dreams or imagination
el dorado;an imaginary place of great wealth and opportunity. sought in south america by 16th-century explorers
inferno;(christianity) the abode of satan and the forces of evil. where sinners suffer eternal punishment: 'hurl'd headlong...to bottomless perdition, there to dwell'- john milton. 'a demon from the depths of the pit'
leo the lion;the fifth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from july 23 to august 22
capricon the goat;the tenth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from december 22 to january 19
hades;(in various religions) the world of the dead. 'he didn't want to go to hell when he died'
pisces;the twelfth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from february 19 to march 20
annwn;(welsh myth) the other world. land of fairies
mailing address;the address where a person or organization can be communicated with
cancer;the fourth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from june 21 to july 22
garden of eden;a beautiful garden where adam and eve were placed at the creation. when they disobeyed and ate the forbidden fruit from the tree of knowledge of good and evil they were driven from their paradise (the fall of man)
eldorado;an imaginary place of great wealth and opportunity. sought in south america by 16th-century explorers
benthonic zone;a region including the bottom of the sea and the littoral zones
annwfn;(welsh myth) the other world. land of fairies
promised land;the goal towards which christians strive
sepulture;a chamber that is used as a grave
midgard;the abode of humans in norse mythology
place;the particular portion of space occupied by a physical object: 'he put the lamp back in its place'
abode;a person's legal place of residence
erewhon;fictitious land described in the novel erewhon by samuel butler
lilliput;an imaginary land inhabited by tiny people (in swift's gulliver's travels)
hellfire;a place of eternal fire envisaged as punishment for the damned
sign of the zodiac;"one of 12 equal areas into which the zodiac is divided"
home;where you live. 'deliver the package to my home'. 'he doesn't have a home to go to'. 'your place or mine?'
taurus the bull;the second sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from april 20 to may 20
cloud cuckoo land;a place where you say people are when they seem optimistically out of touch with reality
libra;the seventh sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from september 23 to october 22
paradise;a heavenly place--preaceful and beautiful--where those who are favored by the gods can go when they die
scorpio the scorpion;the eighth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from october 23 to november 21
post office box number;the number of a letter box at the post office where mail is collected
holy city;other phrases used to refer to heaven. 'the celestial city was christian's goal in bunyan's 'pilgrim's progress''
sagittarius the archer;the ninth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from november 22 to december 21
never never land;a pleasing country existing only in dreams or imagination
crypt;a cellar or vault or underground chamber (especially beneath a church)
taurus;the second sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from april 20 to may 20
geographic point;a point on the surface of the earth
ruritania;an imaginary kingdom somewhere in central europe. a setting for romance and adventure
spirit world;any imaginary place where spiritual beings (demons or fairies or angels or the like) abide. 'science has emptied the spirit world of its former inhabitants'
mausoleum;a large tomb, usually above ground
faerie;the enchanted realm of fairies
infernal region;(in various religions) the world of the dead. 'he didn't want to go to hell when he died'
utopia;an imaginary place considered to be perfect or ideal
residence;a person's legal place of residence
place;where you live. 'deliver the package to my home'. 'he doesn't have a home to go to'. 'your place or mine?'
virgo the virgin;the sixth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from august 23 to september 22
celestial city;other phrases used to refer to heaven. 'the celestial city was christian's goal in bunyan's 'pilgrim's progress''
scorpio;the eighth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from october 23 to november 21
aquarius the water bearer;the eleventh sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from january 20 to february 18
aquarius;the eleventh sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from january 20 to february 18
imaginary place;"a place said to exist in religious or fictional writings"
box number;the mailing address to which answers to a newspaper ad can be sent
charnel house;a vault or building where corpses or bones are deposited
house;"one of 12 equal areas into which the zodiac is divided"
tomb;"a place for the burial of a corpse (especially beneath the ground and marked by a tombstone). 'he put flowers on his mother's grave'"
pisces the fishes;the twelfth sign of the zodiac. the sun is in this sign from february 19 to march 20
limbo;an imaginary place for lost or neglected things
faery;the enchanted realm of fairies
wonderland;an imaginary realm of marvels or wonders
monument;a burial vault (usually for some famous person)
po box no;the number of a letter box at the post office where mail is collected
burial chamber;a chamber that is used as a grave
charnel;a vault or building where corpses or bones are deposited
