high noon;the middle of the day
extremely high frequency;30 to 300 gigahertz
kit and caboodle;everything available. usually preceded by 'the'. 'we saw the whole shebang'. 'a hotdog with the works'. 'we took on the whole caboodle'. 'for 10 you get the full treatment'
time lag;time during which some action is awaited. 'instant replay caused too long a delay'. 'he ordered a hold in the action'
jejuneness;lacking and evidencing lack of experience of life
distance;the interval between two times. 'the distance from birth to death'. 'it all happened in the space of 10 minutes'
uneasiness;physical discomfort (as mild sickness or depression)
extent;the point or degree to which something extends. 'the extent of the damage'. 'the full extent of the law'. 'a mistake would have to that extent let the whole world know'
male patterned baldness;loss of hair on the crown of the head
letup;a pause during which things are calm or activities are diminished. 'there was never a letup in the noise'
relative frequency;the ratio of the number of observations in a statistical category to the total number of observations
biserial correlation;a correlation coefficient in which one variable is many-valued and the other is dichotomous
clinocephalism;a congenital defect in which the top of the head is depressed (concave instead of convex)
gross margin;the ratio gross profits divided by net sales
luminous flux;the rate of flow of light energy
miles per hour;a speedometer reading for the momentary rate of travel
caesura;a pause or interruption (as in a conversation). 'after an ominous caesura the preacher continued'
commensurateness;the relation of correspondence in degree or size or amount
filthiness;a state characterized by foul or disgusting dirt and refuse
reflective power;the ratio of reflected to incident light
chance half correlation;a correlation coefficient calculated between scores on two halves of a test. taken as an indication of the reliability of the test
congenital defect;a defect that is present at birth
relative humidity;the ratio of the amount of water in the air at a give temperature to the maximum amount it could hold at that temperature. expressed as a percentage
time;the time as given by a clock. 'do you know what time it is?'. 'the time is 10 o'clock'
predisposition;susceptibility to a pathogen
relief;a pause for relaxation. 'people actually accomplish more when they take time for short rests'
am;(latin: before midday) the time interval from midnight to midday
solitude;a state of social isolation
latent period;the time that elapses before the presence of a disease is manifested by symptoms
atrial septal defect;an abnormal opening between the left and right atria of the heart
statistic;"a datum that can be represented numerically"
mph;the ratio of the distance traveled (in miles) to the time spent traveling (in hours)
arithmetic mean;the sum of the values of a random variable divided by the number of values
vacuity;total absence of matter
spotlessness;the state of being spotlessly clean
anencephaly;a defect in brain development resulting in small or missing brain hemispheres
dirtiness;the state of containing dirty impurities
musketry;the technique of using small arms (especially in battle)
deviation;the difference between an observed value and the expected value of a variable or function
prime;the second canonical hour. about 6 a.m.
dinnertime;the time for the evening meal
surfeit;the state of being more than full
guiltlessness;a state of innocence
whole works;everything available. usually preceded by 'the'. 'we saw the whole shebang'. 'a hotdog with the works'. 'we took on the whole caboodle'. 'for 10 you get the full treatment'
grime;the state of being covered with unclean things
imperfection;"the state or an instance of being imperfect"
second moment;the expected value of the square of the deviations of a random variable from the point of origin
inculpability;a state of innocence
tierce;the third canonical hour. about 9 a.m.
time slot;a time assigned on a schedule or agenda. 'the tv program has a new time slot'
freedom;immunity from an obligation or duty
infant mortality;the death rate during the first year of life
extremity;the greatest or utmost degree: 'the extremity of despair'
velocity;distance travelled per unit time
flaw;an imperfection in a device or machine. 'if there are any defects you should send it back to the manufacturer'
midnight;12 o'clock at night. the middle of the night. 'young children should not be allowed to stay up until midnight'
comfort;"a state of being relaxed and feeling no pain. 'he is a man who enjoys his comfort'. 'she longed for the comfortableness of her armchair'"
bug;a fault or defect in a system or machine
meningocele;a congenital anomaly of the central nervous system in which a sac protruding from the brain or the spinal meninges contains cerebrospinal fluid (but no nerve tissue)
solace;comfort in disappointment or misery
cheerfulness;"the quality of being cheerful and dispelling gloom. 'flowers added a note of cheerfulness to the drab room'"
wave number;the reciprocal of the wavelength of a wave
solar constant;the rate at which radiant solar energy is received at the outer layer of the earth's atmosphere
canonical hour;(roman catholic church) one of seven specified times for prayer
tongue tie;a congenital anomaly in which the mucous membrane under the tongue is too short limiting the mobility of the tongue
phalacrosis;"the condition of having no hair (especially on the top of the head)"
basal metabolic rate;the rate at which heat is produced by an individual in a resting state
susceptibility;"the state of being susceptible. easily affected"
delayed allergy;an allergic reaction that becomes apparent only hours after contact
metabolic rate;rate of metabolism. the amount of energy expended in a give period
expertness;skillfulness by virtue of possessing special knowledge
totality;the state of being total: 'appalled by the totality of the destruction'
harelip;a congenital cleft in the middle of the upper lip
prime time;the hours between 7 and 11 p.m. when the largest tv audience is available
smuttiness;the state of being dirty with soot
m.m.;(music) the pace of music measured by the number of beats occurring in 60 seconds
insufficiency;a lack of competence. 'pointed out the insufficiencies in my report'. 'juvenile offenses often reflect an inadequacy in the parents'
low frequency;30 to 300 kilohertz
quickness;skillful performance without difficulty. 'his quick adeptness was a product of good design'
expectation;wishing with confidence of fulfillment
lapse;a break or intermission in the occurrence of something. 'a lapse of three weeks between letters'
breathing space;a short respite
coccidiosis;(veterinary medicine) infestation with coccidia
data rate;the rate at which circuits or other devices operate when handling digital information
color blindness;genetic inability to distinguish differences in hue
flow rate;the amount of fluid that flows in a given time
sanitariness;the state of being conducive to health
unease;physical discomfort (as mild sickness or depression)
septal defect;a congenital abnormality in the septum between the left and right sides of the heart
juvenility;lacking and evidencing lack of experience of life
callowness;lacking and evidencing lack of experience of life
standard deviation;the square root of the variance
i.q.;a measure of a person's intelligence as indicated by an intelligence test. the ratio of a person's mental age to their chronological age (multiplied by 100)
magnitude relation;"a relation between magnitudes"
heart rate;the rate at which the heart beats
allergic rhinitis;rhinitis caused by an allergic reaction
suppertime;the time for the evening meal
dexterity;adroitness in using the hands
plane;a level of existence or development. 'he lived on a worldly plane'
muscle tone;normal tonicity of the muscles. 'exercise improves muscle tone'
silence;"the state of being silent (as when no one is speaking). 'there was a shocked silence': 'he gestured for silence'"
forthcomingness;"the state of being imminent and liable to happen soon"
break of the day;the first light of day. 'we got up before dawn'. 'they talked until morning'
works;everything available. usually preceded by 'the'. 'we saw the whole shebang'. 'a hotdog with the works'. 'we took on the whole caboodle'. 'for 10 you get the full treatment'
processing time;the time it takes to complete a prescribed procedure. 'they increased output by decreasing processing time'
focal ratio;the ratio of the focal length to the diameter of a (camera) lens system
average;a statistic describing the location of a distribution: 'it set the norm for american homes'
magnification;the ratio of the size of an image to the size of the object
attrition rate;the rate of shrinkage in size or number
distinctness;the state of being several and distinct
fatigue;(of materials (especially metals)) the state of being weakened by long stress: 'metal fatigue'
correlation;a statistic representing how closely two variables co-vary. it can vary from -1 (perfect negative correlation) through 0 (no correlation) to +1 (perfect positive correlation). 'what is the correlation between those two variables?'
acid rain;rain containing acids that form in the atmosphere when industrial gas emissions combine with water
hf;3 to 30 megahertz
nonparametric statistic;a statistic computed without knowledge of the parameters of the distribution from which observations are drawn
integrity;"an unreduced or unbroken completeness or totality"
expectation;the sum of the values of a random variable divided by the number of values
dryness;"the condition of not containing or being covered by a liquid (especially water)"
birth rate;the ratio of live births in an area to the population of that area. expressed per 1000 population per year
alopecia;loss of hair (especially on the head) or wool or feathers. in humans it can result from heredity or hormonal imbalance or certain diseases or drugs and treatments (chemotherapy for cancer)
imminency;"the state of being imminent and liable to happen soon"
peak;the highest level or degree attainable: 'his landscapes were deemed the acme of beauty'. 'the artist's gifts are at their acme'. 'at the height of her career'. 'the peak of perfection'. 'summer was at its peak'. '...catapulted einstein to the pinnacle of fame'. 'the summit of his ambition'. 'so many highest superlatives achieved by man'. 'at the top of his profession'
profit margin;the ratio gross profits divided by net sales
night;a shortening of nightfall. 'they worked from morning to night'
tensity;"the physical condition of being stretched or strained. 'it places great tension on the leg muscles'. 'he could feel the tenseness of her body'. 'the violinist adjusted the tension of the strings'"
separateness;the state of being several and distinct
catatonia;extreme tonus. muscular rigidity. a common symptom in catatonic schizophrenia
geometric mean;the mean of n numbers expressed as the n-th root of their product
gloominess;excessive sadness and mournfulness
type i allergic reaction;an allergic reaction that becomes apparent in a sensitized person only minutes after contact
drought;a temporary shortage of rainfall
reading;"the data presented to a user by a meter or similar instrument. 'he could not believe the meter reading'"
groundspeed;the speed of an aircraft relative to the ground
preparedness;"the state of being ready or prepared for use or action (especially military action). 'putting them in readiness'"
bps;(computer science) the rate at which data is transferred (as by a modem)
tritanopia;inability to distinguish blue and yellow
inculpableness;a state of innocence
hay fever;a seasonal rhinitis resulting from an allergic reaction to pollen
ankyloglossia;a congenital anomaly in which the mucous membrane under the tongue is too short limiting the mobility of the tongue
sound pollution;annoying and potentially harmful environmental noise
eccentricity;(geometry) a ratio describing the shape of a conic section. the ratio of the distance between the foci to the length of the major axis. 'a circle is an ellipse with zero eccentricity'
atony;"lack of normal muscular tension or tonus"
parameter;"any factor that defines a system and determines (or limits) its performance"
alienation;separation resulting from hostility
elevation;the highest level or degree attainable: 'his landscapes were deemed the acme of beauty'. 'the artist's gifts are at their acme'. 'at the height of her career'. 'the peak of perfection'. 'summer was at its peak'. '...catapulted einstein to the pinnacle of fame'. 'the summit of his ambition'. 'so many highest superlatives achieved by man'. 'at the top of his profession'
dawning;the first light of day. 'we got up before dawn'. 'they talked until morning'
space;the interval between two times. 'the distance from birth to death'. 'it all happened in the space of 10 minutes'
stain;the state of being covered with unclean things
impunity;exemption from punishment or loss
rydberg constant;a wave number characteristic of the wave spectrum of each element
escape velocity;the minimum velocity needed to escape a gravitational field
pct;a proportion multiplied by 100
superlative;the highest level or degree attainable: 'his landscapes were deemed the acme of beauty'. 'the artist's gifts are at their acme'. 'at the height of her career'. 'the peak of perfection'. 'summer was at its peak'. '...catapulted einstein to the pinnacle of fame'. 'the summit of his ambition'. 'so many highest superlatives achieved by man'. 'at the top of his profession'
unemployment rate;the percentage of the work force that is unemployed at any given date
anencephalia;a defect in brain development resulting in small or missing brain hemispheres
ascariasis;infestation of the human intestine with ascaris roundworms
proportion;the quotient obtained when the magnitude of a part is divided by the magnitude of the whole
beats per minute;(music) the pace of music measured by the number of beats occurring in 60 seconds
variance;the second moment around the mean. the expected value of the square of the deviations of a random variable from its mean value
pause;a time interval during which there is a temporary cessation of something
disjuncture;state of being disconnected
suggestibility;susceptibility or responsiveness to suggestion
odds;the ratio by which one better's wager is greater than that of another. 'he offered odds of two to one'
expected value;the sum of the values of a random variable divided by the number of values
separability;the capability of being separated
post meridiem;the time interval from midday to midnight
zero hour;the time set for the start of an action or operation
elf;below 3 kilohertz
slot;a time assigned on a schedule or agenda. 'the tv program has a new time slot'
phocomelia;an abnormality of development in which the upper part of an arm or leg is missing so the hands or feet are attached to the body like stumps. rare condition that results from taking thalidomide during pregnancy
mean deviation from the mean;the arithmetic mean of the absolute values of deviations from the mean of a distribution
congenital disorder;a defect that is present at birth
productivity;(economics) the ratio of the quantity and quality of units produced to the labor per unit of time
rate of inflation;the rate of change of prices (as indicated by a price index) calculated on a monthly or annual basis
sensitivity;susceptibility to a pathogen
incoherence;lack of cohesion or clarity or organization
tone;the elastic tension of living muscles, arteries, etc. that facilitate response to stimuli. 'the doctor tested my tonicity'
mean;an average of n numbers computed by adding some function of the numbers and dividing by some function of n
light speed;the speed at which light travels in a vacuum. 300,000 km per second. a universal constant
high frequency;3 to 30 megahertz
shapelessness;"an amorphous or indefinite shape. 'a shapeless mass'"
quotient;the ratio of two quantities to be divided
macroglossia;a congenital disorder characterized by an abnormally large tongue. often seen in cases of down's syndrome
respite;a (temporary) relief from harm or discomfort
mongolism;a congenital disorder caused by having an extra 21st chromosome. results in a flat face and short stature and mental retardation
mc;one million periods per second
disconnection;state of being disconnected
noonday;the middle of the day
bedtime;the time you go to bed
vacuousness;total absence of matter
correspondence;the relation of correspondence in degree or size or amount
confidentiality;the state of being secret. 'you must respect the confidentiality of your client's communications'
immaculateness;the state of being spotlessly clean
mortality rate;the ratio of deaths in an area to the population of that area. expressed per 1000 per year
miasma;unhealthy vapors rising from the ground or other sources. 'the miasma of the marshes' or 'a miasma of cigar smoke'
tetrachoric correlation;a correlation coefficient computed for two normally distributed variables that are both expressed as a dichotomy
puerility;the state of a child between infancy and adolescence
cycles second;the unit of frequency. one hertz has a periodic interval of one second
height;the highest level or degree attainable: 'his landscapes were deemed the acme of beauty'. 'the artist's gifts are at their acme'. 'at the height of her career'. 'the peak of perfection'. 'summer was at its peak'. '...catapulted einstein to the pinnacle of fame'. 'the summit of his ambition'. 'so many highest superlatives achieved by man'. 'at the top of his profession'
filth;a state characterized by foul or disgusting dirt and refuse
greenness;the state of not being ripe
sereness;a withered dryness
muzzle velocity;the velocity of a projectile as it leaves the muzzle of a gun
morning;the first light of day. 'we got up before dawn'. 'they talked until morning'
debasement;being mixed with extraneous material
incompleteness;the state of being incomplete and imperfect
harmonic mean;the mean of n numbers expressed as the reciprocal of the arithmetic mean of the reciprocals of the numbers
breath;a short respite
ultimateness;the state or degree of being ultimate. the final or most extreme in degree or size or time or distance: 'the ultimacy of these social values'
occupancy rate;the percentage of all rental units (as in hotels) are occupied or rented at a given time
hygiene;a condition promoting sanitary practices. 'personal hygiene'
anomie;personal state of isolation and anxiety resulting from a lack of social control and regulation
ripeness;the state of being ripe
defectiveness;the state of being defective
bpm;(music) the pace of music measured by the number of beats occurring in 60 seconds
reprieve;a (temporary) relief from harm or discomfort
epispadias;a congenital abnormality in males in which the urethra is on the upper surface of the penis
befoulment;the state of being polluted
state of the art;the highest degree of development of an art or technique at a particular time. 'the state of the art in space travel'
diathesis;constitutional predisposition to a particular disease or abnormality
cranial index;ratio (in percent) of the maximum breadth to the maximum length of a skull
break;a time interval during which there is a temporary cessation of something
fertility;the ratio of live births in an area to the population of that area. expressed per 1000 population per year
discontinuity;lack of connection of continuity
fullness;"the condition of being filled to capacity"
regression coefficient;when the regression line is linear (y = ax + b) the regression coefficient is the constant (a) that represents the rate of change of one variable (y) as a function of changes in the other (x). it is the slope of the regression line
pace;the rate of some repeating event
noise pollution;annoying and potentially harmful environmental noise
active immunity;a form of acquired immunity in which the body produces its own antibodies against disease-causing antigens
norm;a statistic describing the location of a distribution: 'it set the norm for american homes'
atopy;an allergic reaction that becomes apparent in a sensitized person only minutes after contact
infant mortality rate;the death rate during the first year of life
borderline intelligence;the minimal iq required for someone to function normally and independently in the world (without some form of institutional assistance)
pollinosis;a seasonal rhinitis resulting from an allergic reaction to pollen
latency;(computer science) the time it takes for a specific block of data on a data track to rotate around to the read/write head
parametric statistic;any statistic computed by procedures that assume the data were drawn from a particular distribution
loss ratio;the ratio of the annual claims paid by an insurance company to the premiums received
estrangement;separation resulting from hostility
isolation;a state of separation between persons or groups
radio frequency;an electromagnetic wave frequency between audio and infrared
lag;the time between one event, process, or period and another
very high frequency;30 to 300 megahertz
inadequacy;a lack of competence. 'pointed out the insufficiencies in my report'. 'juvenile offenses often reflect an inadequacy in the parents'
dunghill;a foul or degraded condition
rotational latency;(computer science) the time it takes for a specific block of data on a data track to rotate around to the read/write head
cleft palate;a congenital fissure of the hard palate
spinocerebellar disorder;any of several congenital disorders marked by degeneration of the cerebellum and spinal cord resulting in spasticity and ataxia
age norm;the average age at which particular performances are expected to appear
cleft lip;a congenital cleft in the middle of the upper lip
breathing time;a short respite
biserial correlation coefficient;a correlation coefficient in which one variable is many-valued and the other is dichotomous
colour blindness;genetic inability to distinguish differences in hue
growth rate;the rate of increase in size per unit time
pearson product moment correlation coefficient;the most commonly used method of computing a correlation coefficient between variables that are linearly related
sedimentation rate;the rate at which red blood cells settle out in a tube of blood under standardized conditions. a high rate usually indicates the presence of inflammation
ultimacy;the state or degree of being ultimate. the final or most extreme in degree or size or time or distance: 'the ultimacy of these social values'
coefficient of correlation;a statistic representing how closely two variables co-vary. it can vary from -1 (perfect negative correlation) through 0 (no correlation) to +1 (perfect positive correlation). 'what is the correlation between those two variables?'
overhead;(computer science) the processing time required by a device prior to the execution of a command
comfortableness;"a state of being relaxed and feeling no pain. 'he is a man who enjoys his comfort'. 'she longed for the comfortableness of her armchair'"
pediculosis;infestation with lice (pediculus humanus) resulting in severe itching
green blindness;inability to distinguish green and purplish-red
extremely low frequency;below 3 kilohertz
margin of profit;the ratio gross profits divided by net sales
ready;poised for action. 'their guns were at the ready'
admixture;the state of impairing the quality or reducing the value of something
frequence;the number of occurrences within a given time period (usually 1 second). 'the frequency of modulation was 40 cycles per second'
unsanitariness;a state that is not conducive to health
river blindness;infestation with slender threadlike roundworms (filaria) deposited under the skin by the bite of black fleas. when the eyes are involved it can result in blindness. common in africa and tropical america
lugubriousness;excessive sadness and mournfulness
a.m.;(latin: before midday) the time interval from midnight to midday
index of refraction;the ratio of the velocity of light in a vacuum to that in a medium
rank order correlation coefficient;the most commonly used method of computing a correlation coefficient between the ranks of scores on two variables
kit and boodle;everything available. usually preceded by 'the'. 'we saw the whole shebang'. 'a hotdog with the works'. 'we took on the whole caboodle'. 'for 10 you get the full treatment'
suspension;a time interval during which there is a temporary cessation of something
audio;an audible acoustic wave frequency
lf;30 to 300 kilohertz
acme;the highest level or degree attainable: 'his landscapes were deemed the acme of beauty'. 'the artist's gifts are at their acme'. 'at the height of her career'. 'the peak of perfection'. 'summer was at its peak'. '...catapulted einstein to the pinnacle of fame'. 'the summit of his ambition'. 'so many highest superlatives achieved by man'. 'at the top of his profession'
efficiency;skillfulness in avoiding wasted time and effort. 'she did the work with great efficiency'
twilight;the time of day immediately following sunset. 'he loved the twilight'. 'they finished before the fall of night'
amnesty;a period during which offenders are exempt from punishment
time of day;clock time. 'the hour is getting late'
echinococcosis;infestation with echinococci (tapeworms)
scale;the ratio between the size of something and a representation of it. 'the scale of the map'. 'the scale of the model'
sketchiness;incompleteness of details
filth;the state of being covered with unclean things
insularity;the state of being insulated
hollowness;the state of being hollow: having an empty space within
discomfort;"the state of being tense and feeling pain"
birth defect;a defect that is present at birth
defect;an imperfection in a bodily system. 'visual defects'. 'this device permits detection of defects in the lungs'
rest;a pause for relaxation. 'people actually accomplish more when they take time for short rests'
prematureness;the state of being premature
superhigh frequency;3 to 30 gigahertz
unsusceptibility;"the state of not being susceptible: 'unsusceptibility to rust'. 'immunity to disease'"
sensitization;the state of being sensitive (as to an antigen)
frequency;the ratio of the number of observations in a statistical category to the total number of observations
seek time;(computer science) the time it takes for a read/write head to move to a specific data track
ratability;(british) the state of being liable to assessment or taxation
gait;the rate of moving (especially walking or running)
interlude;an intervening period or episode
overabundance;the state of being more than full
vlf;3 to 30 kilohertz
tragic flaw;a failing in the character of a tragic hero that leads to his downfall
whole shebang;everything available. usually preceded by 'the'. 'we saw the whole shebang'. 'a hotdog with the works'. 'we took on the whole caboodle'. 'for 10 you get the full treatment'
nones;the fifth of the seven canonical hours. about 3 p.m.
good temperedness;a cheerful willingness to be obliging
trombiculiasis;infestation with chiggers
pinnacle;the highest level or degree attainable: 'his landscapes were deemed the acme of beauty'. 'the artist's gifts are at their acme'. 'at the height of her career'. 'the peak of perfection'. 'summer was at its peak'. '...catapulted einstein to the pinnacle of fame'. 'the summit of his ambition'. 'so many highest superlatives achieved by man'. 'at the top of his profession'
exemption;immunity from an obligation or duty
tautness;"the physical condition of being stretched or strained. 'it places great tension on the leg muscles'. 'he could feel the tenseness of her body'. 'the violinist adjusted the tension of the strings'"
uhf;300 to 3000 megahertz
impendency;"the state of being imminent and liable to happen soon"
delay;time during which some action is awaited. 'instant replay caused too long a delay'. 'he ordered a hold in the action'
mode;the most frequent value of a random variable
time constant;(electronics) the time required for the current or voltage in a circuit to rise or fall exponentially through approximately 63 per cent of its amplitude
sclk;the clock time given by a clock carried on board a spacecraft
hole;a fault. 'he shot holes in my argument'
orbit period;the time it takes to complete one full orbit around a celestial body. 'the orbit period depends on the altitude of the satelite'
morbidity;the ratio of deaths in an area to the population of that area. expressed per 1000 per year
infancy;the earliest state of immaturity
loading;the ratio of the gross weight of an airplane to some factor determining its lift
disjunction;state of being disconnected
access time;(computer science) the interval between the time data is requested by the system and the time the data is provided by the drive. 'access time is the sum of seek time and rotational latency and command processing overhead'
correlation coefficient;a statistic representing how closely two variables co-vary. it can vary from -1 (perfect negative correlation) through 0 (no correlation) to +1 (perfect positive correlation). 'what is the correlation between those two variables?'
golden section;the proportional relation between two divisions of line or two dimension of a plane figure such that short : long :: long : (short + long)
turnover;the ratio of the number of workers that had to be replaced in a given time period to the average number of workers
acceleration;(physics) a rate of change of velocity
morning prayer;the first canonical hour. at daybreak
immediate allergy;an allergic reaction that becomes apparent in a sensitized person only minutes after contact
break of day;the first light of day. 'we got up before dawn'. 'they talked until morning'
satiety;the state of being satisfactorily full and unable to take on more
span loading;the ratio of the weight of an airplane to its wingspan
multiple correlation coefficient;an estimate of the combined influence of two or more variables on the observed (dependent) variable
acariasis;infestation with itch mites
hypervelocity;excessive velocity. 'the meteorites struck the earth with hypervelocity impacts'
excess;the state of being more than full
lull;a pause during which things are calm or activities are diminished. 'there was never a letup in the noise'
aridity;a permanent absence of rainfall
privateness;the condition of being concealed or hidden
pm;the time interval from midday to midnight
myotonia;abnormally long muscular contractions. slow relaxation of a muscle after a contraction
hypersensitivity;pathological sensitivity
phi coefficient;an index of the relation between any two sets of scores that can both be represented on ordered binary dimensions (e.g., male-female)
dessication;dryness resulting from the removal of water
latency;the time that elapses between a stimulus and the response to it"the time that elapses between a stimulus and the response to it"
hives;an itchy skin eruption characterized by weals with pale interiors and well-defined red margins. usually the result of an allergic response to insect bites or food or drugs
cosiness;a state of warm snug comfort
anaphylactic shock;a severe and rapid and sometimes fatal hypersensitivity reaction to a substance (especially a vaccine or penicillin or shellfish or insect venom) to which the organism has become sensitized by previous exposure
matins;the first canonical hour. at daybreak
uncleanness;the state of being unsanitary
blue blindness;inability to distinguish blue and yellow
babyhood;the earliest state of immaturity
urticaria;an itchy skin eruption characterized by weals with pale interiors and well-defined red margins. usually the result of an allergic response to insect bites or food or drugs
discreteness;the state of being several and distinct
disassociation;the state of being separate and unconnected
kph;the ratio of the distance traveled (in kilometers) to the time spent traveling (in hours)
convenience;the state of being suitable or opportune. 'chairs arranged for his own convenience'
absence;the time interval during which something or somebody is away. 'he visited during my absence'
cleanness;the state of being clean. without dirt or other impurities
revolutions per minute;rate of revolution of a motor. 'the engine was doing 6000 revs'
dose rate;the quantity of radiation absorbed per unit time
bosom;(archaic) the chest considered as the place where secret thoughts are kept. 'his bosom was bursting with the secret'
mph;a speedometer reading for the momentary rate of travel
cycle;"an interval during which a recurring sequence of events occurs. 'the neverending cycle of the seasons'"an interval during which a recurring sequence of events occurs. 'the neverending cycle of the seasons'
absentee rate;the percentage of workers who do not report to work
imminence;"the state of being imminent and liable to happen soon"
asepsis;(of non-living objects) the state of being free of pathogenic organisms
vacuity;the absence of matter
griminess;the state of being grimy
manual dexterity;adroitness in using the hands
mf;300 to 3000 kilohertz
demographic;a statistic characterizing human populations (or segments of human populations broken down by age or sex or income etc.)
blamelessness;a state of innocence
manhood;the state of being a man. manly qualities
count per minute;frequency per minute
secrecy;the condition of being concealed or hidden
intelligence quotient;a measure of a person's intelligence as indicated by an intelligence test. the ratio of a person's mental age to their chronological age (multiplied by 100)
clinocephaly;a congenital defect in which the top of the head is depressed (concave instead of convex)
vacancy rate;the percentage of all rental units (as in hotels) that are unoccupied or not rented at a given time
water pollution;pollution of the water
oftenness;the number of occurrences within a given time period (usually 1 second). 'the frequency of modulation was 40 cycles per second'
percent;a proportion multiplied by 100
maturity;"state of being mature. full development"
professionalism;the expertness characteristic of a professional person
down syndrome;a congenital disorder caused by having an extra 21st chromosome. results in a flat face and short stature and mental retardation
touch;deftness in handling matters. 'he has a master's touch'
incidence;the relative frequency of occurrence of something
impureness;"the condition of being impure"
centripetal acceleration;the acceleration toward the center that holds a satellite in elliptical orbit
round;"an interval during which a recurring sequence of events occurs. 'the neverending cycle of the seasons'"an interval during which a recurring sequence of events occurs. 'the neverending cycle of the seasons'
matureness;"state of being mature. full development"
rhythm;"an interval during which a recurring sequence of events occurs. 'the neverending cycle of the seasons'"an interval during which a recurring sequence of events occurs. 'the neverending cycle of the seasons'
iq;a measure of a person's intelligence as indicated by an intelligence test. the ratio of a person's mental age to their chronological age (multiplied by 100)
point;"a specific identifiable position in a continuum or series or especially in a process. 'a remarkable degree of frankness'. 'at what stage are the social sciences?'"
adolescence;in the state between puberty and adulthood
allergic reaction;hypersensitivity reaction to a particular allergen. symptoms can vary greatly in intensity
time interval;a definite length of time marked off by two instants
airspeed;the speed of an aircraft relative to the air in which it is flying
rate of growth;the rate of increase in size per unit time
dayspring;the first light of day. 'we got up before dawn'. 'they talked until morning'
kendall partial rank correlation;a nonparametric measure of partial correlation
level;"a specific identifiable position in a continuum or series or especially in a process. 'a remarkable degree of frankness'. 'at what stage are the social sciences?'"
baldness;"the condition of having no hair (especially on the top of the head)"
technique;skillfulness in the command of fundamentals deriving from practice and familiarity. 'practice greatly improves proficiency'
pollution;the state of being polluted
aridness;a permanent absence of rainfall
cardiac output;the amount of blood pumped out by the ventricles in a given period of time. 'a resting adult has a cardiac output of about three quarts a minute'
whole kit;everything available. usually preceded by 'the'. 'we saw the whole shebang'. 'a hotdog with the works'. 'we took on the whole caboodle'. 'for 10 you get the full treatment'
meter reading;"the data presented to a user by a meter or similar instrument. 'he could not believe the meter reading'"
speed of light;the speed at which light travels in a vacuum. 300,000 km per second. a universal constant
breather;a short respite
cps;the unit of frequency. one hertz has a periodic interval of one second
gigacycle per second;1,000,000,000 periods per second
vhf;30 to 300 megahertz
signal to noise ratio;the ratio of signal intensity to noise intensity
metronome marking;(music) the pace of music measured by the number of beats occurring in 60 seconds
region;the extended spatial location of something. 'the farming regions of france'. 'religions in all parts of the world'. 'regions of outer space'
cryesthesia;hypersensitivity to cold
alopecia areata;patchy baldness
proportionality;the quotient obtained when the magnitude of a part is divided by the magnitude of the whole
entirety;the state of being total: 'appalled by the totality of the destruction'
anaphylaxis;hypersensitivity reaction to the ingestion or injection of a substance (a protein or drug) resulting from prior contact with a substance
contamination;the state of being contaminated
skillfulness;"the state of being cognitively skillful"
turnover rate;the ratio of the number of workers that had to be replaced in a given time period to the average number of workers
medium frequency;300 to 3000 kilohertz
frequency;the number of occurrences within a given time period (usually 1 second). 'the frequency of modulation was 40 cycles per second'
squalor;sordid dirtiness
pace;the rate of moving (especially walking or running)
mach number;the ratio of the speed of a moving body to the speed of sound
golden mean;the proportional relation between two divisions of line or two dimension of a plane figure such that short : long :: long : (short + long)
content;the proportion of a substance that is contained in a mixture or alloy etc.
megacycle;one million periods per second
dirt;the state of being covered with unclean things
degree;"a specific identifiable position in a continuum or series or especially in a process. 'a remarkable degree of frankness'. 'at what stage are the social sciences?'"
percentage;a proportion multiplied by 100
wholeheartedness;undivided purpose or will or enthusiasm
vacuum;the absence of matter
common denominator;"an attribute that is common to all members of a category"
s n;the ratio of signal intensity to noise intensity
readiness;"the state of being ready or prepared for use or action (especially military action). 'putting them in readiness'"
susceptibleness;"the state of being susceptible. easily affected"
period;the interval taken to complete one cycle of a regularly repeating phenomenon
ablepharia;a congenital absence of eyelids (partial or complete)
waterlessness;"the condition of not containing or being covered by a liquid (especially water)"
oxycephaly;a congenital abnormality of the skull. the top of the skull assumes a cone shape
mastery;great skillfulness and knowledge of some subject or activity. 'a good command of french'
bmr;the rate at which heat is produced by an individual in a resting state
relative incidence;the relative frequency of occurrence of something
tension;"the physical condition of being stretched or strained. 'it places great tension on the leg muscles'. 'he could feel the tenseness of her body'. 'the violinist adjusted the tension of the strings'"
signal noise;the ratio of signal intensity to noise intensity
reaction time;the time that elapses between a stimulus and the response to it"the time that elapses between a stimulus and the response to it"
womanhood;the state of being a woman. womanly qualities
megahertz;one million periods per second
erythrocyte sedimentation rate;the rate at which red blood cells settle out in a tube of blood under standardized conditions. a high rate usually indicates the presence of inflammation
uncheerfulness;"not conducive to cheer or good spirits"
weakness;a flaw or weak point. 'he was quick to point out his wife's failings'
daltonism;inability to distinguish green and purplish-red
hangover;disagreeable aftereffects from the use of drugs (especially alcohol)
atonicity;"lack of normal muscular tension or tonus"
breadth index;ratio (in percent) of the maximum breadth to the maximum length of a skull
pollution;the state of being contaminated with harmful substances
terce;the third canonical hour. about 9 a.m.
emptiness;"the state of containing nothing"
rate of attrition;the rate of shrinkage in size or number
ante meridiem;(latin: before midday) the time interval from midnight to midday
gigacycle;1,000,000,000 periods per second
lights out;a prescribed bedtime
deuteranopia;inability to distinguish green and purplish-red
facility;skillfulness in the command of fundamentals deriving from practice and familiarity. 'practice greatly improves proficiency'
infant deathrate;the death rate during the first year of life
hertz;the unit of frequency. one hertz has a periodic interval of one second
terminal velocity;the constant maximum velocity reached by a body falling through the atmosphere under the attraction of gravity
megacycle per second;one million periods per second
tempo;the rate of some repeating event
breakfast time;the time for eating breakfast
indemnity;legal exemption from liability for damages
hairlessness;"the condition of having no hair (especially on the top of the head)"
command overhead;(computer science) the processing time required by a device prior to the execution of a command
bits per second;(computer science) the rate at which data is transferred (as by a modem)
rate of acceleration;(mechanics) the rate of change of velocity
ski conditions;"the amount and state of snow for skiing"
kc;one thousand periods per second
double time;a fast marching pace (180 steps/min) or slow jog
top;the highest level or degree attainable: 'his landscapes were deemed the acme of beauty'. 'the artist's gifts are at their acme'. 'at the height of her career'. 'the peak of perfection'. 'summer was at its peak'. '...catapulted einstein to the pinnacle of fame'. 'the summit of his ambition'. 'so many highest superlatives achieved by man'. 'at the top of his profession'
breathing spell;a short respite
interval;a definite length of time marked off by two instants
fault;an imperfection in a device or machine. 'if there are any defects you should send it back to the manufacturer'
aurora;the first light of day. 'we got up before dawn'. 'they talked until morning'
intermission;a time interval during which there is a temporary cessation of something
kilocycle;one thousand periods per second
magnitude;a number assigned to the ratio of two quantities. two quantities are of the same order of magnitude if one is less than 10 times as large as the other. the number of magnitudes that the quantities differ is specified to within a power of 10
severalty;the state of being several and distinct
loneliness;the state of being alone in solitary isolation
activity;(chemistry) the capacity of a substance to take part in a chemical reaction. 'catalytic activity'
expertise;skillfulness by virtue of possessing special knowledge
detachment;the state of being insulated
coziness;a state of warm snug comfort
adactyly;congenital absence of fingers and/or toes
economy;the efficient use of resources. 'economy of effort'
sunup;the first light of day. 'we got up before dawn'. 'they talked until morning'
sterileness;(of non-living objects) the state of being free of pathogenic organisms
foulness;a state characterized by foul or disgusting dirt and refuse
cephalic index;ratio (in percent) of the maximum breadth to the maximum length of a skull
interruption;a time interval during which there is a temporary cessation of something
adroitness;skillful performance without difficulty. 'his quick adeptness was a product of good design'
dirtiness;the state of being unsanitary
parenthood;the state of being a parent
end point;the final point in a process
smogginess;air pollution by a mixture of smoke and fog
clinodactyly;a congenital defect in which one or more toes or fingers are abnormally positioned
mechanical advantage;the ratio of the force exerted by a machine to the force applied to it
wpm;the rate at which words are produced (as in speaking or typing)
muscular tonus;normal tonicity of the muscles. 'exercise improves muscle tone'
sterility;(of non-living objects) the state of being free of pathogenic organisms
concealment;the condition of being concealed or hidden
mean deviation;the arithmetic mean of the absolute values of deviations from the mean of a distribution
grubbiness;the state of being grimy
grease;the state of being covered with unclean things
whole caboodle;everything available. usually preceded by 'the'. 'we saw the whole shebang'. 'a hotdog with the works'. 'we took on the whole caboodle'. 'for 10 you get the full treatment'
ehf;30 to 300 gigahertz
immaturity;"not having reached maturity"
good naturedness;a cheerful willingness to be obliging
inconvenience;an inconvenient discomfort
separation;the state of lacking unity
atopic allergy;an allergic reaction that becomes apparent in a sensitized person only minutes after contact
coefficient of concordance;a coefficient of agreement (concordance) between different sets of rank orderings of the same set of things
safety factor;the ratio of the breaking stress of a structure to the estimated maximum stress in ordinary use
adactylism;congenital absence of fingers and/or toes
gloaming;the time of day immediately following sunset. 'he loved the twilight'. 'they finished before the fall of night'
rate of flow;the amount of fluid that flows in a given time
unity;"an unreduced or unbroken completeness or totality"
efficiency;the ratio of the output to the input of any system
crabs;infestation by crab lice
kilocycle per second;one thousand periods per second
congenital anomaly;a defect that is present at birth
schistorrhachis;a not uncommon congenital defect in which a vertebra is malformed. unless several vertebrae are affected or there is myelomeningocele there are few symptoms. can be diagnosed by amniocentesis
dehydration;dryness resulting from the removal of water
smog;air pollution by a mixture of smoke and fog
mhz;one million periods per second
time out;a brief suspension of play. 'each team has two time-outs left'
nastiness;a state characterized by foul or disgusting dirt and refuse
rank difference correlation coefficient;the most commonly used method of computing a correlation coefficient between the ranks of scores on two variables
pulse;the rate at which the heart beats
neutron flux;the rate of flow of neutrons. the number of neutrons passing through a unit area in unit time
esr;the rate at which red blood cells settle out in a tube of blood under standardized conditions. a high rate usually indicates the presence of inflammation
rate;"a magnitude or frequency relative to a time unit. 'they traveled at a rate of 55 miles per hour'. 'the rate of change was faster than expected'"
privacy;the condition of being concealed or hidden
kilometers per hour;the ratio of the distance traveled (in kilometers) to the time spent traveling (in hours)
reactivity;ready susceptibility to chemical change
qui vive;condition of heightened watchfulness or preparation for action: 'bombers were put on alert during the crisis'
moratorium;a legally authorized postponement before some obligation must be discharged
achromatic vision;genetic inability to distinguish differences in hue
batting average;(baseball) the percentage of times a batter gets a hit. number of base hits divided by the number of times at bat
infestation;the state of being overrun in unpleasantly large numbers (as by parasites)
daybreak;the first light of day. 'we got up before dawn'. 'they talked until morning'
acrocephaly;a congenital abnormality of the skull. the top of the skull assumes a cone shape
early morning hour;an hour early in the morning
power loading;the ratio of the weight of an airplane to its engine power
scaphocephaly;congenital malformation of the skull which is long and narrow. frequently accompanied by mental retardation
mileage;the ratio of the number of miles traveled to the number of gallons of gasoline burned
satiation;the state of being satisfactorily full and unable to take on more
respiratory quotient;the ratio of the volume of carbon dioxide expired to the volume of oxygen consumed by an organism or cell in a given period of time
command processing overhead;(computer science) the processing time required by a device prior to the execution of a command
spacing;the time between occurrences of a repeating event. 'some women do not control the spacing of their children'
midday;the middle of the day
youth;early maturity. the state of being young or immature or inexperienced
wholeness;"an unreduced or unbroken completeness or totality"
seal limbs;an abnormality of development in which the upper part of an arm or leg is missing so the hands or feet are attached to the body like stumps. rare condition that results from taking thalidomide during pregnancy
syndactylism;a birth defect (in humans) in which there is partial or total webbing connecting two or more fingers or toes
atonia;"lack of normal muscular tension or tonus"
fielding average;(baseball) the percentage of times a fielder handles a batted ball properly. number of assists and putouts divided by the number of chances
acaridiasis;infestation with itch mites
order of magnitude;a number assigned to the ratio of two quantities. two quantities are of the same order of magnitude if one is less than 10 times as large as the other. the number of magnitudes that the quantities differ is specified to within a power of 10
full treatment;everything available. usually preceded by 'the'. 'we saw the whole shebang'. 'a hotdog with the works'. 'we took on the whole caboodle'. 'for 10 you get the full treatment'
disconnectedness;state of being disconnected
antisepsis;(of non-living objects) the state of being free of pathogenic organisms
impendence;"the state of being imminent and liable to happen soon"
hopefulness;"full of hope"
kilohertz;one thousand periods per second
infrared;the infrared part of the electromagnetic spectrum. electromagnetic wave frequencies below the visible range. 'they could sense radiation in the infrared'
time constant;the ratio of the inductance of a circuit in henries to its resistance in ohms
immatureness;"not having reached maturity"
sanitation;the state of being clean and conducive to health
adult intelligence;the average iq of the adults in a given population
fall;the time of day immediately following sunset. 'he loved the twilight'. 'they finished before the fall of night'
purdah;a state of social isolation
distribution free statistic;a statistic computed without knowledge of the parameters of the distribution from which observations are drawn
brushwork;an artist's distinctive technique of applying paint with a brush
postponement;time during which some action is awaited. 'instant replay caused too long a delay'. 'he ordered a hold in the action'
hold;time during which some action is awaited. 'instant replay caused too long a delay'. 'he ordered a hold in the action'
channel capacity;the maximum data rate that can be attained over a given channel
failing;a flaw or weak point. 'he was quick to point out his wife's failings'
defect;an imperfection in a device or machine. 'if there are any defects you should send it back to the manufacturer'
tonus;the elastic tension of living muscles, arteries, etc. that facilitate response to stimuli. 'the doctor tested my tonicity'
eternity;a seemingly endless time interval (waiting)
adactylia;congenital absence of fingers and/or toes
myelomeningocele;a congenital defect of the central nervous system in which a sac containing part of the spinal cord and its meninges protrude through a gap in the vertebral column. frequently accompanied by hydrocephalus and mental retardation
cryaesthesia;hypersensitivity to cold
squalidness;sordid dirtiness
adulteration;being mixed with extraneous material
kendall rank correlation;a nonparametric measure of the agreement between two rankings
fourfold point correlation;an index of the relation between any two sets of scores that can both be represented on ordered binary dimensions (e.g., male-female)
facial index;the ratio (in percent) of the maximum width the the maximum height of the face
embolism;an insertion into a calendar
control;great skillfulness and knowledge of some subject or activity. 'a good command of french'
proportionateness;the relation of correspondence in degree or size or amount
red blindness;inability to distinguish red and purplish blue
infrared frequency;the infrared part of the electromagnetic spectrum. electromagnetic wave frequencies below the visible range. 'they could sense radiation in the infrared'
hypersensitivity reaction;an inappropriate and excessive reaction to an allergen (as pollen or dust or animal hair or certain foods). severity ranges from mild allergy to severe systemic reactions leading to anaphylactic shock
serum disease;a delayed allergic reaction to the injection of an antiserum caused by an antibody reaction to an antigen in the donor serum
wing loading;the ratio of the weight of an airplane to its wing area
signal noise ratio;the ratio of signal intensity to noise intensity
blankness;the state of being blank. void. emptiness
audio frequency;an audible acoustic wave frequency
spacecraft clock time;the clock time given by a clock carried on board a spacecraft
snugness;a state of warm snug comfort
albinism;the congenital absence of pigmentation in the eyes and skin and hair
comprehensiveness;completeness over a broad scope
childhood;the state of a child between infancy and adolescence
crime rate;the ratio of crimes in an area to the population of that area. expressed per 1000 population per year
down s syndrome;a congenital disorder caused by having an extra 21st chromosome. results in a flat face and short stature and mental retardation
command;great skillfulness and knowledge of some subject or activity. 'a good command of french'
adeptness;skillful performance without difficulty. 'his quick adeptness was a product of good design'
miles per gallon;the ratio of the number of miles traveled to the number of gallons of gasoline burned
hz;the unit of frequency. one hertz has a periodic interval of one second
impurity;"the condition of being impure"
evensong;the sixth of the seven canonical hours of the divine office. early evening. now often made a public service on sundays
flow;the amount of fluid that flows in a given time
rpm;rate of revolution of a motor. 'the engine was doing 6000 revs'
evenfall;the time of day immediately following sunset. 'he loved the twilight'. 'they finished before the fall of night'
rank order correlation;the most commonly used method of computing a correlation coefficient between the ranks of scores on two variables
complin;last of the seven canonical hours
sanitary condition;"the state of sanitation (clean or dirty)"
proficiency;skillfulness in the command of fundamentals deriving from practice and familiarity. 'practice greatly improves proficiency'
very low frequency;3 to 30 kilohertz
aspect ratio;the ratio of the width to the height of a tv picture
entr acte;the interlude between two acts of a play
median;the value below which 50% of the cases fall
outlier;an extreme deviation from the mean
acariosis;infestation with itch mites
jerk;(mechanics) the rate of change of velocity
fullness;completeness over a broad scope
glitch;a fault or defect in a system or machine
ametria;congenital absence of the uterus
partialness;the state of being only a part. not total. incomplete
confidence;a state of confident hopefulness that events will be favorable. 'public confidence in the economy'
coordination;the skillful and effective interaction of movements
command processing overhead time;(computer science) the processing time required by a device prior to the execution of a command
rev;rate of revolution of a motor. 'the engine was doing 6000 revs'
clear;deletes the text of the current selection fromwindow-or-item without saving it on the kill ring. window-or-item is a fred window or fred dialog item.the state of being free of suspicion: 'investigation showed that he was in the clear'
noon;the middle of the day
defilement;the state of being polluted
stop number;the ratio of the focal length to the diameter of a (camera) lens system
track to track seek time;(computer science) the time it takes for a read/write head to move to an adjacent data track
miles per hour;the ratio of the distance traveled (in miles) to the time spent traveling (in hours)
birthrate;the ratio of live births in an area to the population of that area. expressed per 1000 population per year
flux;the rate of flow of energy or particles across a given surface
rush hour;the times at the beginning and end of the working day when many people are traveling to or from work
uncomfortableness;"the state of being tense and feeling pain"
liability;the state of being legally obliged and responsible
sleight;adroitness in using the hands
sootiness;the state of being dirty with soot
bugginess;the state of having bugs
lousiness;infestation with lice (pediculus humanus) resulting in severe itching
latent period;the time that elapses between a stimulus and the response to it"the time that elapses between a stimulus and the response to it"
moment;the n-th moment of a distribution is the expected value of the n-th power of the deviations from a fixed value
lunchtime;the time for eating lunch. 'he observed a regular lunchtime'
happy hour;the time of day when a bar sells alcoholic drinks at a reduced price
air pollution;pollution of the air
incommodiousness;an inconvenient discomfort
adulthood;the state (and responsibilities) of a person who has attained maturity
twelve noon;the middle of the day
halftime;an intermission between the first and second half of a game
mongolianism;a congenital disorder caused by having an extra 21st chromosome. results in a flat face and short stature and mental retardation
nettle rash;an itchy skin eruption characterized by weals with pale interiors and well-defined red margins. usually the result of an allergic response to insect bites or food or drugs
dinginess;discoloration due to dirtiness
fluency;skillfulness in speaking or writing
f number;the ratio of the focal length to the diameter of a (camera) lens system
mortality;the ratio of deaths in an area to the population of that area. expressed per 1000 per year
relief;the condition of being comfortable or relieved (especially after being relieved of distress). 'he enjoyed his relief from responsibility'. 'getting it off his conscience gave him some ease'
signal to noise;the ratio of signal intensity to noise intensity
nightfall;the time of day immediately following sunset. 'he loved the twilight'. 'they finished before the fall of night'
kendall test;any of several nonparametric measures of correlation (used when the assumptions of standard correlational analysis are not met)
hour;clock time. 'the hour is getting late'
acromyotonia;myotonia of the extremities only. causes spastic deformity of the hand or foot
putridity;the state of being putrid
deftness;skillful performance without difficulty. 'his quick adeptness was a product of good design'
taint;the state of being contaminated
dawn;the first light of day. 'we got up before dawn'. 'they talked until morning'
first light;the first light of day. 'we got up before dawn'. 'they talked until morning'
inflation rate;the rate of change of prices (as indicated by a price index) calculated on a monthly or annual basis
whole kit and boodle;everything available. usually preceded by 'the'. 'we saw the whole shebang'. 'a hotdog with the works'. 'we took on the whole caboodle'. 'for 10 you get the full treatment'
good humoredness;a cheerful willingness to be obliging
sed rate;the rate at which red blood cells settle out in a tube of blood under standardized conditions. a high rate usually indicates the presence of inflammation
small hours;the hours just after midnight
imperfectness;"the state or an instance of being imperfect"
serum sickness;a delayed allergic reaction to the injection of an antiserum caused by an antibody reaction to an antigen in the donor serum
words per minute;the rate at which words are produced (as in speaking or typing)
tau coefficient of correlation;a nonparametric measure of the agreement between two rankings
rest period;a pause for relaxation. 'people actually accomplish more when they take time for short rests'
disjointedness;lacking order or coherence
extension;a mutually agreed delay in the date set for the completion of a job or payment of a debt. 'they applied for an extension of the loan'
resistance;the condition in which an organism can resist disease
alert;condition of heightened watchfulness or preparation for action: 'bombers were put on alert during the crisis'
gc;1,000,000,000 periods per second
ultrahigh frequency;300 to 3000 megahertz
alloy;the state of impairing the quality or reducing the value of something
p.m.;the time interval from midday to midnight
counts minute;frequency per minute
quarantine;enforced isolation to prevent spread of disease
solitariness;the state of being alone in solitary isolation
amorphous shape;an ill-defined or arbitrary shape
protanopia;inability to distinguish red and purplish blue
completeness;the state of being complete and entire. having everything that is needed
kmh;the ratio of the distance traveled (in kilometers) to the time spent traveling (in hours)
facility;skillful performance without difficulty. 'his quick adeptness was a product of good design'
deathrate;the ratio of deaths in an area to the population of that area. expressed per 1000 per year
dust contamination;state of being contaminated with dust
whole kit and caboodle;everything available. usually preceded by 'the'. 'we saw the whole shebang'. 'a hotdog with the works'. 'we took on the whole caboodle'. 'for 10 you get the full treatment'
interim;the time between one event, process, or period and another
wait;time during which some action is awaited. 'instant replay caused too long a delay'. 'he ordered a hold in the action'
cycle;the unit of frequency. one hertz has a periodic interval of one second
stage;"a specific identifiable position in a continuum or series or especially in a process. 'a remarkable degree of frankness'. 'at what stage are the social sciences?'"
part;the extended spatial location of something. 'the farming regions of france'. 'religions in all parts of the world'. 'regions of outer space'
onchocerciasis;infestation with slender threadlike roundworms (filaria) deposited under the skin by the bite of black fleas. when the eyes are involved it can result in blindness. common in africa and tropical america
gigahertz;1,000,000,000 periods per second
vacancy;being unoccupied
good humouredness;a cheerful willingness to be obliging
ease;the condition of being comfortable or relieved (especially after being relieved of distress). 'he enjoyed his relief from responsibility'. 'getting it off his conscience gave him some ease'
float;the time interval between the deposit of a check in a bank and its payment
refractive index;the ratio of the velocity of light in a vacuum to that in a medium
resultant;the final point in a process
tonicity;the elastic tension of living muscles, arteries, etc. that facilitate response to stimuli. 'the doctor tested my tonicity'
entireness;the state of being total: 'appalled by the totality of the destruction'
solidity;state of having the interior filled with matter
rydberg;a wave number characteristic of the wave spectrum of each element
passive immunity;an impermanent form of acquired immunity in which antibodies against a disease are acquired naturally (as through the placenta to an unborn child) or artificially (as by injection of antiserum)
ratio;"the relative magnitudes of two quantities (usually expressed as a quotient)"
fertility rate;the ratio of live births in an area to the population of that area. expressed per 1000 population per year
late night hour;the latter part of night
per centum;a proportion multiplied by 100
faultiness;the state of being defective
quick time;a normal marching pace of 120 steps per minute
capability;the susceptibility of something to a particular treatment. 'the capability of a metal to be fused'
first moment;the sum of the values of a random variable divided by the number of values
dusk;the time of day immediately following sunset. 'he loved the twilight'. 'they finished before the fall of night'
rank difference correlation;the most commonly used method of computing a correlation coefficient between the ranks of scores on two variables
shf;3 to 30 gigahertz
rydberg unit;a wave number characteristic of the wave spectrum of each element
syndactyly;a birth defect (in humans) in which there is partial or total webbing connecting two or more fingers or toes
incoherency;lack of cohesion or clarity or organization
solacement;comfort in disappointment or misery
cycle per second;the unit of frequency. one hertz has a periodic interval of one second
malaise;physical discomfort (as mild sickness or depression)
noontide;the middle of the day
intercalation;an insertion into a calendar
rateability;(british) the state of being liable to assessment or taxation
sext;the fourth of the seven canonical hours. about noon
khz;one thousand periods per second
soil;the state of being covered with unclean things
cockcrow;the first light of day. 'we got up before dawn'. 'they talked until morning'
split half correlation;a correlation coefficient calculated between scores on two halves of a test. taken as an indication of the reliability of the test
meromelia;congenital absence of part of an arm or leg
acquired immunity;immunity to a particular disease that is not innate but has been acquired during life. immunity can be acquired by the development of antibodies after an attack of an infectious disease or by a pregnant mother passing antibodies through the placenta to a fetus or by vaccination
allergy;hypersensitivity reaction to a particular allergen. symptoms can vary greatly in intensity
grandfather clause;an exemption based on circumstances existing prior to the adoption of some policy. used to enfranchise illiterate whites in us south after the civil war
capacity;the susceptibility of something to a particular treatment. 'the capability of a metal to be fused'
scale;"relative magnitude. 'they entertained on a grand scale'"
cheer;"the quality of being cheerful and dispelling gloom. 'flowers added a note of cheerfulness to the drab room'"
c;the speed at which light travels in a vacuum. 300,000 km per second. a universal constant
repletion;the state of being satisfactorily full and unable to take on more
factor of safety;the ratio of the breaking stress of a structure to the estimated maximum stress in ordinary use
type iv allergic reaction;an allergic reaction that becomes apparent only hours after contact
cheiloschisis;a congenital cleft in the middle of the upper lip
radiant flux;the rate of flow of radiant energy (electromagnetic waves)
output to input ratio;the output power of a transducer divided by the input power
urtication;an itchy skin eruption characterized by weals with pale interiors and well-defined red margins. usually the result of an allergic response to insect bites or food or drugs
mealtime;the time for eating a meal
compline;last of the seven canonical hours
batting average;(an extension of the baseball term) the proportion of times some effort succeeds. 'the salesman's batting average was 7 out of 12'
speed;the ratio of the focal length to the diameter of a (camera) lens system
sunrise;the first light of day. 'we got up before dawn'. 'they talked until morning'
sunset;the time in the evening at which the sun begins to fall below the horizon
steerageway;(nautical) the minimum rate of motion needed for a vessel to be maneuvered
noise conditions;"the condition of being noisy (as in a communication channel)"
vespers;the sixth of the seven canonical hours of the divine office. early evening. now often made a public service on sundays
blackout;a suspension of radio or tv broadcasting
relaxation time;the time constant of an exponential return of a system to equilibrium after a disturbance
ventricular septal defect;a common congenital heart defect. an abnormal opening in the septum dividing the ventricles allows blood to pass directly from the left to the right ventricle. large openings may cause congestive heart failure
trisomy;a congenital disorder caused by having an extra 21st chromosome. results in a flat face and short stature and mental retardation
kendall s tau;a nonparametric measure of the agreement between two rankings
congenital abnormality;a defect that is present at birth
acid precipitation;rain containing acids that form in the atmosphere when industrial gas emissions combine with water
taxability;liability to taxation
breathing place;a short respite
morbidity;the relative incidence of a particular disease
spina bifida;a not uncommon congenital defect in which a vertebra is malformed. unless several vertebrae are affected or there is myelomeningocele there are few symptoms. can be diagnosed by amniocentesis
tetrachoric correlation coefficient;a correlation coefficient computed for two normally distributed variables that are both expressed as a dichotomy
product moment correlation coefficient;the most commonly used method of computing a correlation coefficient between variables that are linearly related
immunity;"the state of not being susceptible: 'unsusceptibility to rust'. 'immunity to disease'"
amyotonia;"lack of normal muscular tension or tonus"
anticipation;wishing with confidence of fulfillment
quickening;the stage of pregnancy at which the mother first feels movements of the fetus
phi correlation;an index of the relation between any two sets of scores that can both be represented on ordered binary dimensions (e.g., male-female)
insulation;the state of being insulated
dissociation;the state of being separate and unconnected
amelia;congenital absence of an arm or leg
response time;the time that elapses between a stimulus and the response to it"the time that elapses between a stimulus and the response to it"
lunitidal interval;interval between the moon's transit of a particular meridian and the next high tide at that meridian
insularism;the state of being insulated
clock time;the time as given by a clock. 'do you know what time it is?'. 'the time is 10 o'clock'
tenseness;"the physical condition of being stretched or strained. 'it places great tension on the leg muscles'. 'he could feel the tenseness of her body'. 'the violinist adjusted the tension of the strings'"
sundown;the time in the evening at which the sun begins to fall below the horizon
prematurity;the state of being premature
versatility;having a wide variety of skills
climax;the most severe stage of a disease
sordidness;sordid dirtiness
summit;the highest level or degree attainable: 'his landscapes were deemed the acme of beauty'. 'the artist's gifts are at their acme'. 'at the height of her career'. 'the peak of perfection'. 'summer was at its peak'. '...catapulted einstein to the pinnacle of fame'. 'the summit of his ambition'. 'so many highest superlatives achieved by man'. 'at the top of his profession'
ghz;1,000,000,000 periods per second
interregnum;the time between two reigns, governments, etc.
covariance;statistical measure of the variance of two random variables measured in the same mean time period
innocence;"a state or condition of being innocent of a specific crime or offense. 'the trial established his innocence'"
speed;distance travelled per unit time
albedo;the ratio of reflected to incident light
respite;a pause for relaxation. 'people actually accomplish more when they take time for short rests'
