giant;a very bright star of large diameter and low density (relative to the sun)
existence;"everything that exists anywhere. 'they study the evolution of the universe'. 'the biggest tree in existence'"
cadaver;the dead body of a human being
antares;the brightest star in scorpius
evening star;a planet (usually venus) seen at sunset in the western sky
boulder;a large smooth mass of rock detached from its place of origin
hairball;a compact mass of hair that forms in the stomach of animals as a result of licking fur
apollo asteroid;an asteroid whose orbit crosses the earth's orbit
positive muon;the antiparticle of a muon. decays to positron and neutrino and antineutrino
loadstar;guiding star. a star that is used as a reference point in navigation of astronomy
nephrolith;a calculus formed in the kidney
photon;a quantum of electromagnetic radiation. an elementary particle that is its own antiparticle
antimeson;the antiparticle of a meson
world;the 3rd planet from the sun. the planet on which we live. 'the earth moves around the sun'. 'he sailed around the world'
quasi stellar radio source;a starlike object that may send out radio waves and other forms of energy. large red shifts imply enormous recession velocities
lodestar;guiding star. a star that is used as a reference point in navigation of astronomy
neutron star;a star that has collapsed under its own gravity. it is composed of neutrons
mars;the 4th planet from the sun
moon;the natural satellite of the earth. 'the average distance to the moon is 384,400 kilometers'. 'men first stepped on the moon in 1969'
red dwarf star;a small cool star. approximately 100 times the mass of jupiter
outcrop;the part of a rock formation that appears above the surface of the surrounding land
rigel;the brightest star in orion
white dwarf;a faint star of enormous density
k particle;an unstable meson produced as the result of a high-energy particle collision
canicula;the brightest star in the sky. in canis major
saturn;a giant planet which is surrounded by three planar concentric rings of ice particles. 6th planet from the sun
europa;the 4th largest of jupiter's satellites. covered with a smooth shell of frozen water
beta orionis;the brightest star in orion
variable star;a star that varies noticeably in brightness
proton;a stable particle with positive charge equal to the negative charge of an electron
stiff;the dead body of a human being
binary star;a system of two stars that revolve around each other under their mutual gravitation
planet;any of the celestial bodies (other than comets or satellites) that revolve around the sun in the solar system
plymouth rock;a boulder in plymouth supposed to be where the pilgrims disembarked from the mayflower
meson;an elementary particle responsible for the forces in the atomic nucleus. a hadron with a baryon number of 0
meteor;a meteoroid that has entered the earth's atmosphere
corpse;the dead body of a human being
positron;an elementary particle with positive charge. interaction of a positron and an electron results in annihilation
gallstone;a calculus formed in the gall bladder or its ducts
virion;a complete viral particle. nucleic acid and capsid (and a lipid envelope in some viruses)
proxima;the nearest star to the sun. distance: 4.3 light years
stone;"a lump of hard consolidated mineral matter. 'he threw a rock at me'"
double star;a system of two stars that revolve around each other under their mutual gravitation
intermediate vector bosons;a gauge boson that mediates weak interactions between particles
asterope;one of the stars in the star cluster pleiades
gauge boson;a particle that mediates the interaction of two elementary particles
earth;the 3rd planet from the sun. the planet on which we live. 'the earth moves around the sun'. 'he sailed around the world'
carcase;the dead body of an animal esp. one slaughtered and dressed for food
x chromosome;the sex chromosome that is carried by women. 'human females have two x chromosomes'
glacial boulder;a boulder that has been carried by a glacier to a place far distant from its place of origin
calculus;a stone produced by concretion of mineral salts. found in hollow organs or ducts of the body
autosome;any chromosome that is not a sex chromosome. appear in pairs in body cells but as single chromosomes in spermatozoa
cosmos;"everything that exists anywhere. 'they study the evolution of the universe'. 'the biggest tree in existence'"
acentric chromosome;a chromosome lacking a centromere
white dwarf star;a faint star of enormous density
tauon;a lepton of very great mass
star;(astronomy) a celestial body of hot gases that radiates energy derived from thermonuclear reactions in the interior
beta particle;a high-speed electron or positron emitted in the decay of a radioactive isotope
red dwarf;a small cool star. approximately 100 times the mass of jupiter
giant star;a very bright star of large diameter and low density (relative to the sun)
kaon;an unstable meson produced as the result of a high-energy particle collision
mu meson;an elementary particle with a negative charge and a half-life of 2 microsecond. decays to electron and neutrino and antineutrino
alpha crucis;the brightest star in the southern cross
callisto;the second largest of jupiter's satellites
alpha centauri;brightest star in centaurus. second nearest star to the sun
venus;the second nearest planet to the sun. visible as an early 'morning star' or an 'evening star'. rotates slowly in the opposite direction from the normal rotation of the planets
lambda hyperon;an electrically neutral baryon with isotopic spin 1
proxima centauri;the nearest star to the sun. distance: 4.3 light years
ceres;the largest asteroid and the first discovered
y chromosome;the sex chromosome that is carried by men. 'human males have one x chromosome and one y chromosome'
procyon;the brightest star in canis minor
pluto;the second smallest planet and the farthest known from the sun. has the most elliptical orbit of all the planets
tor;a prominent rock or pile of rocks on a hill
achondrite;a stony meteor lacking chondrules
fermion;any particle that obeys fermi-dirac statistics and is subject to the pauli exclusion principle
sialolith;a stone formed in the salivary gland
spica;the brightest star in virgo
cystolith;a calculus formed in the bladder
acrocentric chromosome;a chromosome with the centromere near one end so that one chromosomal arm is short and one is long
polar star;the brightest star in ursa minor. at the end of the handle of the little dipper. the northern axis of the earth points toward it
lambda particle;an electrically neutral baryon with isotopic spin 1
micelle;an electrically charged particle built up from polymeric molecules or ions and occurring in certain colloidal electrolytic solutions like soaps and detergents
wall rock;a rock immediately adjacent to a vein or fault
alpha geminorum;a multiple star with 6 components. second brightest in gemini. close to pollux
sill;(geology) a flat (usually horizontal) mass of igneous rock between two layers of older sedimentary rock
pebble;a small smooth rounded rock
crab nebula;a remnant of a supernova detected first in 1054 ad
neutrino;an elementary particle with zero charge and zero mass
crystal;a rock formed by the solidification of a substance. has regularly repeating internal structure. external plane faces
galilean satellite;one of the four satellites of jupiter that were discovered by galileo
siderite;a meteorite consisting principally of metallic iron
alpha orionis;the second brightest star in orion
pi meson;a meson produced as the result of high-energy particle collision
superstring;a hypothetical particle that is the elementary particle in a theory of space-time
gluon;a gauge boson that mediates strong interaction among quarks
fixed star;any star in the ptolemaic theory of planetary motion
inclusion body;an small intracellular body found within another (characteristic of certain diseases). 'an inclusion in the cytoplasm of the cell'
radio source;an object that radiates radio waves
top quark;a hypothetical quark with a charge of +2/3 and a mass more than 100,000 times that of an electron
cancer body;an inclusion body found in plasma cells in cases of cancer
universe;"everything that exists anywhere. 'they study the evolution of the universe'. 'the biggest tree in existence'"
antimuon;the antiparticle of a muon. decays to positron and neutrino and antineutrino
strange particle;an elementary particle with non-zero strangeness
variable;a star that varies noticeably in brightness
outcropping;the part of a rock formation that appears above the surface of the surrounding land
dog star;the brightest star in the sky. in canis major
subatomic particle;a particle that is less complex than an atom. regarded as constituents of all matter
tangle;"a twisted and tangled mass that is highly interwoven. 'they carved their way through the tangle of vines'"
k meson;an unstable meson produced as the result of a high-energy particle collision
bowlder;a large smooth mass of rock detached from its place of origin
b meson;exceedingly short-lived meson
antitauon;an antilepton of very great mass
io;the closest of jupiter's moons. has active volcanoes
shag;a matted tangle of hair or fiber. 'the dog's woolly shag'
bottom quark;a quark with a charge of -1/3 and a mass about 10,000 times that of an electron
pion;a meson produced as the result of high-energy particle collision
gas giant;any of the four outermost planets in the solar system. much larger than earth and gaseous in nature (like jupiter)
antiparticle;a particle that has the same mass as another particle but has opposite values for its other properties. interaction of a particle and its antiparticle results in annihilation and the production of radiant energy
arcturus;the 4th brightest star and the brightest star in the constellation bootes. 36 light-years from earth
radiator;"any object that radiates energy"
carrion;the dead and rotting body of an animal
rock outcrop;the part of a rock formation that appears above the surface of the surrounding land
hair ball;a compact mass of hair that forms in the stomach of animals as a result of licking fur
hadron;any elementary particle that interacts strongly with other particles
hydrogen ion;a positively charged atom of hydrogen. that is to say, a normal hydrogen atomic nucleus
vega;the brightest star in the constellation lyra
macrocosm;"everything that exists anywhere. 'they study the evolution of the universe'. 'the biggest tree in existence'"
kappa meson;an unstable meson produced as the result of a high-energy particle collision
mummy;a body embalmed and dried and wrapped for burial (as in ancient egypt)
salivary calculus;a stone formed in the salivary gland
russell s body;an inclusion body found in plasma cells in cases of cancer
squark;a quark with an electric charge of -1/3 and a mass 988 times that of an electron and a strangeness of -1
beta crucis;the second brightest star in the southern cross
mesotron;an elementary particle responsible for the forces in the atomic nucleus. a hadron with a baryon number of 0
down quark;a stable quark with an electric charge of -1/3 and a mass 607 times that of an electron
regulus;the brightest star in leo
shore boulder;a boulder found on a shore remote from its place of origin
up quark;a stable quark with an electric charge of +2/3 and a mass 607 times that of an electron
photoelectron;a electron that is emited from an atom or molecule by an incident photon
antineutron;the antiparticle of a neutron
meteor swarm;a group of meteoroids with a similar path around the sun
ganymede;the largest of jupiter's satellites
antielectron;an elementary particle with positive charge. interaction of a positron and an electron results in annihilation
renal calculus;a calculus formed in the kidney
uranus;a giant planet with a ring of ice particles. 7th from the sun
charm quark;a quark with an electric charge of +2/3 and a mass 2900 times that of an electron and a charm of +1
supernova;a star that explodes and becomes extremely luminous in the process
boson;any particle that obeys bose-einstein statistics but not the pauli exclusion principle. all nuclei with an even mass number are bosons
clay;the dead body of a human being
antineutrino;the antiparticle of a neutrino
neptune;a giant planet with a ring of ice particles. the 8th planet from the sun
neutron;an elementary particle with 0 charge and mass about equal to a proton. enters into the structure of the atomic nucleus
body;"body of a dead animal or person. 'they found the body in the lake'"
shooting star;a meteoroid that has entered the earth's atmosphere
superior planet;any of the planets whose orbit lies outside the earth's orbit
celestial body;"natural objects visible in the sky"
antilepton;the antiparticle of a lepton
meteoroid;(astronomy) any of the small solid bodies traveling through space around the sun
delta ray;an electron ejected from matter by ionizing radiation
algol;second brightest star in perseus. first known eclipsing binary
multiple star;a system of three or more stars associated by gravity
micrometeorite;a meteorite so small that it drifts down to earth without becoming intensely heated in the atmosphere
negative muon;an elementary particle with a negative charge and a half-life of 2 microsecond. decays to electron and neutrino and antineutrino
gravitons;a gauge boson that mediates the (extremely weak) gravitational interactions between particles
star;any celestial body visible (as a point of light) from the earth at night
electron;an elementary particle with negative charge
aerolite;a stony meteorite consisting of silicate minerals
nova;a star that ejects some of its material in the form of a cloud and become more luminous in the process
sterope;one of the stars in the star cluster pleiades
psi particle;a neutral meson with a large mass
aldebaran;the brightest star in taurus
inclusion;an small intracellular body found within another (characteristic of certain diseases). 'an inclusion in the cytoplasm of the cell'
planetoid;any of numerous small celestial bodies composed of rock and metal that move around the sun (mainly between the orbits of mars and jupiter)
sothis;the brightest star in the sky. in canis major
tau minus particle;a lepton of very great mass
nature;"everything that exists anywhere. 'they study the evolution of the universe'. 'the biggest tree in existence'"
alpha particle;a positively charged particle that is the nucleus of the helium atom. emitted from natural or radioactive isotopes
metacentric chromosome;a chromosome having two equal arms because the centromere is in median position
comet;(astronomy) a relatively small celestial body consisting of a frozen mass that travels around the sun in a highly elliptical orbit
vesta;the brightest asteroid but the fourth to be discovered
fundamental particle;a particle that is less complex than an atom. regarded as constituents of all matter
flare star;a red dwarf star in which luminosity can change several magnitudes in a few minutes
nucleon;a constituent (proton or neutron) of an atomic nucleus
asteroid;any of numerous small celestial bodies composed of rock and metal that move around the sun (mainly between the orbits of mars and jupiter)
world;"everything that exists anywhere. 'they study the evolution of the universe'. 'the biggest tree in existence'"
natural order;the physical universe considered as an orderly system subject to natural (not human or supernatural) laws
planetesimal;one of many small solid celestial bodies thought to have existed at an early stage in the development of the solar system
inferior planet;any of the planets whose orbit lies inside the earth's orbit
truth quark;a hypothetical quark with a charge of +2/3 and a mass more than 100,000 times that of an electron
chondrite;a rock of meteoric origin containing chondrules
red planet;the 4th planet from the sun
antibaryon;the antiparticle of a baryon. a hadron with a baryon number of -1
polestar;the brightest star in ursa minor. at the end of the handle of the little dipper. the northern axis of the earth points toward it
hyperon;any baryon that is not a nucleon. unstable particle with mass greater than a neutron
rigil kent;brightest star in centaurus. second nearest star to the sun
particle;a body having finite mass and internal structure but negligible dimensions
jovian planet;any of the four outermost planets in the solar system. much larger than earth and gaseous in nature (like jupiter)
outthrust;an outcropping of rock that extends outward
quasar;a starlike object that may send out radio waves and other forms of energy. large red shifts imply enormous recession velocities
chromosome;a threadlike body in the cell nucleus that carries the genes in a linear order
rigil;brightest star in centaurus. second nearest star to the sun
bilestone;a calculus formed in the gall bladder or its ducts
bedrock;solid unweathered rock lying beneath surface deposits of soil
blackbody;"a hypothetical object capable of absorbing all the electromagnetic radiation falling on it"
antiquark;the antiparticle of a quark
carcass;the dead body of an animal esp. one slaughtered and dressed for food
betelgeuse;the second brightest star in orion
heavy particle;any of the elementary particles having a mass equal to or greater than that of a proton and that participate in strong interactions. a hadron with a baryon number of +1
lepton;an elementary particle that participates in weak interactions. has a baryon number of 0
epsilon aurigae;the largest known star
mercury;the smallest planet and the nearest to the sun
heavenly body;"natural objects visible in the sky"
minor planet;any of numerous small celestial bodies composed of rock and metal that move around the sun (mainly between the orbits of mars and jupiter)
stepping stone;a stone in a marsh or shallow water that can be stepped on in crossing
beauty quark;a quark with a charge of -1/3 and a mass about 10,000 times that of an electron
elementary particle;a particle that is less complex than an atom. regarded as constituents of all matter
remains;the dead body of a human being
castor;a multiple star with 6 components. second brightest in gemini. close to pollux
body;"an individual 3-dimensional object that has mass and that is distinguishable from other objects. 'heavenly body'"
capella;the brightest star in auriga
fireball;a very luminous meteor (sometimes exploding)
terrestrial planet;a planet having a compact rocky surface like the earth's. the four innermost planets in the solar system
titan;the largest of the satellites of saturn. has a hazy nitrogen atmosphere
globe;the 3rd planet from the sun. the planet on which we live. 'the earth moves around the sun'. 'he sailed around the world'
muon;an elementary particle with a negative charge and a half-life of 2 microsecond. decays to electron and neutrino and antineutrino
cremains;the remains of a dead body after cremation
deuteron;the nucleus of deuterium. consists of one proton and one neutron. used as a bombarding particle in accelerators
thermion;an electrically charged particle (electron or ion) emitted by a substance at a high temperature
pollux;the brightest star in gemini. close to castor
pulsar;a degenerate neutron star. small and extremely dense. rotates very fast and emits regular pulses of polarized radiation
galilean;one of the four satellites of jupiter that were discovered by galileo
crystallite;any of numerous minute rudimentary crystalline bodies of unknown composition found in glassy igneous rock
meteorite;stony or metallic object that is the remains of a meteoroid that has reached the earth's surface
binary;a system of two stars that revolve around each other under their mutual gravitation
tau plus particle;an antilepton of very great mass
bolide;a very luminous meteor (sometimes exploding)
urinary calculus;a calculus formed in the kidney
morning star;a planet (usually venus) seen just before sunrise in the eastern sky
river boulder;a boulder that has been carried by a river to a place remote from its place of origin
bladder stone;a calculus formed in the bladder
sun;a typical star that is the source of light and heat for the planets in the solar system. 'the sun contains 99.85% of the mass in the solar system'
sirius;the brightest star in the sky. in canis major
satellite;any celestial body orbiting around a planet or star
dead body;"body of a dead animal or person. 'they found the body in the lake'"
telocentric chromosome;a chromosome like a straight rod with the centromere in terminal position
j particle;a neutral meson with a large mass
magnetic monopole;a hypothetical particle with a single magnetic pole instead of the usual two
full radiator;"a hypothetical object capable of absorbing all the electromagnetic radiation falling on it"
sex chromosome;a chromosome that determines the sex of an individual. 'mammals have two sex chromosomes'
jupiter;the largest planet and the 5th from the sun. has many satellites
supergiant;an extremely bright star of very large diameter and low density
sun;any star around which a planetary system evolves
polaris;the brightest star in ursa minor. at the end of the handle of the little dipper. the northern axis of the earth points toward it
somatic chromosome;any chromosome that is not a sex chromosome. appear in pairs in body cells but as single chromosomes in spermatozoa
rock;"a lump of hard consolidated mineral matter. 'he threw a rock at me'"
petrifaction;a rock created by petrifaction. an organic object infiltrated with mineral matter and preserved in its original form
antiproton;an unstable negatively charged proton. the antiparticle of a proton
moon;any natural satellite of a planet. 'jupiter has sixteen moons'
kidney stone;a calculus formed in the kidney
strange quark;a quark with an electric charge of -1/3 and a mass 988 times that of an electron and a strangeness of -1
baryon;any of the elementary particles having a mass equal to or greater than that of a proton and that participate in strong interactions. a hadron with a baryon number of +1
quark;hypothetical truly fundamental particle in mesons and baryons. there are supposed to be six kinds of quarks (and their antiquarks), which come in pairs. has an electric charge of +2/3 or -1/3
creation;"everything that exists anywhere. 'they study the evolution of the universe'. 'the biggest tree in existence'"
belay;something to which a mountain climber's rope can be secured
north star;the brightest star in ursa minor. at the end of the handle of the little dipper. the northern axis of the earth points toward it
beta centauri;the second brightest star in centaurus
