dodge;an elaborate or deceitful scheme contrived to deceive or evade. 'his testimony was just a contrivance to throw us off the track'
blueprint;something intended as a guide for making something else. 'a blueprint for a house'. 'a pattern for a skirt'
budget;a summary of intended expenditures along with proposals for how to meet them. 'the president submitted the annual budget to congress'
scrutin uninominal voting system;based on the principle of having only one member (as of a legislature) selected from each electoral district
fare;an agenda of things to do. 'they worked rapidly down the menu of reports'
scheme;an elaborate and systematic plan of action
football play;a play by the offensive team in a football game
game plan;a plan for achieving an objective (especially in some sport)
tackle;(football) grasping an opposing player with the intention of stopping by throwing to the ground
list system;based on the principle of proportional representation. voters choose between party lists, the number elected from each list being determined by the percentage cast for each list out of the total vote
conspiracy;a plot to carry out some harmful or illegal act (especially a political plot)
programme;"a series of steps to be carried out or goals to be accomplished. 'they drew up a six-step plan'. 'they discussed plans for a new bond issue'"
docket;a temporally organized plan for matters to be attended to
plan;"a series of steps to be carried out or goals to be accomplished. 'they drew up a six-step plan'. 'they discussed plans for a new bond issue'"
money spinner;a project that generates a continuous flow of money
pass;a football play that involves one player throwing the ball to a teammate. 'the coach sent in a passing play on third and long'
basketball play;a play executed by a basketball team
pension plan;a plan for setting aside money to be spent after retirement
legal system;a system for interpreting and enforcing the laws
tax system;a legal system for assessing and collecting taxes
jury system;a legal system for determining the facts at issue in a law suit
running game;a football play in which a player runs with the ball. 'the defensive line braced to stop the run'. 'the coach put great emphasis on running'
uninominal system;based on the principle of having only one member (as of a legislature) selected from each electoral district
pick;a basketball maneuver. obstructing an opponent with one's body. 'he was called for setting an illegal pick'
cash cow;a project that generates a continuous flow of money
maneuver;a plan for attaining a particular goal
single member system;based on the principle of having only one member (as of a legislature) selected from each electoral district
balanced budget;a budget is balanced when current expenditures are equal to receipts
forward pass;a pass to a receiver downfield from the passer
individual retirement account;a self-funded retirement plan that allows you to contribute a limited yearly sum toward your retirement. taxes on the interest earned in the account are deferred
plot;a secret scheme to do something (especially something underhand or illegal). 'they concocted a plot to discredit the governor'
safety squeeze play;the runner on third base waits to start home until the batter has bunted successfully
give and go;a basketball maneuver. one offensive player passes the ball to another, then runs toward the basket to take a return pass
retirement program;a plan for setting aside money to be spent after retirement
manoeuvre;a plan for attaining a particular goal
design;something intended as a guide for making something else. 'a blueprint for a house'. 'a pattern for a skirt'
passing;a football play that involves one player throwing the ball to a teammate. 'the coach sent in a passing play on third and long'
pattern;something intended as a guide for making something else. 'a blueprint for a house'. 'a pattern for a skirt'
secret plan;a secret scheme to do something (especially something underhand or illegal). 'they concocted a plot to discredit the governor'
battle plan;plan for conducting a battle
patent system;a legal system for protecting the rights of inventors
razzle dazzle;any exciting and complex play intended to confuse (dazzle) the opponent
screen pass;a forward pass in which the receiver is protected by a screen of blockers
passing play;a football play that involves one player throwing the ball to a teammate. 'the coach sent in a passing play on third and long'
draw;the quarterback moves back as if to pass and then hands the ball to the fullback who is running toward the line of scrimmage
incentive program;a formal scheme for inducing someone (as employees) to do something
program;"a series of steps to be carried out or goals to be accomplished. 'they drew up a six-step plan'. 'they discussed plans for a new bond issue'"
pricing system;a system for setting prices on goods or services
touchback;(american football) a play in which the opposing team has kicked the football into your end zone
handoff;a football play in which one player hands the ball to a teammate
activism;a policy of taking direct and militant action to achieve a political or social goal
schedule;a temporally organized plan for matters to be attended to
contrivance;an elaborate or deceitful scheme contrived to deceive or evade. 'his testimony was just a contrivance to throw us off the track'
master plan;a long-term outline of a project or government function: 'the zoning board adopted a master plan for the new development'
aerial;a pass to a receiver downfield from the passer
run;a football play in which a player runs with the ball. 'the defensive line braced to stop the run'. 'the coach put great emphasis on running'
system;a procedure or process for obtaining an objective. 'they had to devise a system that did not depend on cooperation'
priestcraft;a derogatory reference to priests who use their influence to control secular or political affairs
itinerary;a proposed route of travel
incentive scheme;a formal scheme for inducing someone (as employees) to do something
credit system;a system for allowing people to purchase things on credit
travel plan;a proposed route of travel
wangling;an instance of accomplishing something by scheming or trickery
scrutin de liste;based on the principle of proportional representation. voters choose between party lists, the number elected from each list being determined by the percentage cast for each list out of the total vote
waiting game;a strategy of delay
stock purchase plan;an organized plan for employees of a company to buy shares of its stock
outline;a schematic or preliminary plan
uninominal voting system;based on the principle of having only one member (as of a legislature) selected from each electoral district
house of cards;a scheme that depends on unstable factors that the planner cannot control
safety squeeze;the runner on third base waits to start home until the batter has bunted successfully
triple play;the act of getting three players out on one play
knock on;(rugby) knocking the ball forward while trying to catch it (a foul)
project;a planned undertaking
tactic;a plan for attaining a particular goal
intrigue;covert and involved plotting to achieve your ends
voting system;a legal system for making democratic choices
rushing;(football) an attempt to advance the ball by running into the line. 'the linebackers were ready to stop a rush'
menu;an agenda of things to do. 'they worked rapidly down the menu of reports'
baseball play;a play executed by a baseball team
lateral;a pass to a receiver upfield from the passer
draw play;the quarterback moves back as if to pass and then hands the ball to the fullback who is running toward the line of scrimmage
double play;the act of getting two players out on one play
schema;a schematic or preliminary plan
return;the act of running back the football after a kickoff or punt or interception or fumble
retirement plan;a plan for setting aside money to be spent after retirement
razzmatazz;any exciting and complex play intended to confuse (dazzle) the opponent
esop;a program under which employees regularly accumulate shares and may ultimately assume control of the company
projection;a planned undertaking
rush;(football) an attempt to advance the ball by running into the line. 'the linebackers were ready to stop a rush'
promotion system;a system for advancing participants to higher-status positions
end run;(football) an attempt to advance the ball by running around the end of the line
electoral system;a legal system for making democratic choices
obscurantism;a policy of opposition to enlightenment or the spread of knowledge
policy;a plan of action adopted by an individual or social group. 'it was a policy of retribution'. 'a politician keeps changing his policies'
play;a preset plan of action in team sports. 'the coach drew up the plays for her team'
machination;covert and involved plotting to achieve your ends
employee stock ownership plan;a program under which employees regularly accumulate shares and may ultimately assume control of the company
regime;(medicine) a systematic plan for therapy (often including diet)
suicide squeeze play;the runner on third base starts home as the pitcher delivers the ball
running play;a football play in which a player runs with the ball. 'the defensive line braced to stop the run'. 'the coach put great emphasis on running'
stratagem;an elaborate or deceitful scheme contrived to deceive or evade. 'his testimony was just a contrivance to throw us off the track'
suicide squeeze;the runner on third base starts home as the pitcher delivers the ball
wangle;an instance of accomplishing something by scheming or trickery
razzle;any exciting and complex play intended to confuse (dazzle) the opponent
moneymaker;a project that generates a continuous flow of money
passing game;a football play that involves one player throwing the ball to a teammate. 'the coach sent in a passing play on third and long'
regimen;(medicine) a systematic plan for therapy (often including diet)
switch;a basketball maneuver. two defensive players shift assignments so that each guards the player usually guarded by the other
plan of action;a plan for actively doing something
counterplot;a plot intended to subvert another plot
running;a football play in which a player runs with the ball. 'the defensive line braced to stop the run'. 'the coach put great emphasis on running'
scrutin de liste system;based on the principle of proportional representation. voters choose between party lists, the number elected from each list being determined by the percentage cast for each list out of the total vote
ira;a self-funded retirement plan that allows you to contribute a limited yearly sum toward your retirement. taxes on the interest earned in the account are deferred
plant;something planted secretly for discovery by another. 'the police used a plant to trick the thieves'. 'he claimed that the evidence against him was a plant'
razmataz;any exciting and complex play intended to confuse (dazzle) the opponent
scrutin uninomial system;based on the principle of having only one member (as of a legislature) selected from each electoral district
cabal;a plot to carry out some harmful or illegal act (especially a political plot)
lateral pass;a pass to a receiver upfield from the passer
agenda;a temporally organized plan for matters to be attended to
strategy;an elaborate and systematic plan of action
sweep;(football) an attempt to advance the ball by running around the end of the line
squeeze play;a baseball play in which a runner on third base tries to score as the batter bunts the pitch
