st. louis;the largest city in missouri. was an important staging area for wagon trains westward in the 19th century
ghana;a republic in west africa on the gulf of guinea. 'ghana was colonized as the gold coast by the british'
katar;an arab country on the peninsula of qatar
essen;a city in western germany. industrial center of the ruhr
tashkent;the capital of uzbekistan
friendly islands;a monarchy on a polynesian archipelago
belgian capital;the capital and largest city of belgium. seat of the north atlantic treaty organization
lisboa;capital and largest city and economic and cultural center of portugal. a major port in western portugal on tagus river where it broadens and empties into the atlantic
dominican republic;a republic in the west indies. located on the east of the island of hispaniola
east germany;a republic in north central europe on the baltic. established by the soviet union in 1954. reunified with germany in 1990
casper;a city of east central wyoming on the north platte river
george town;the capital of the cayman islands
nanking;a city in eastern china on the yangtze river. a former capital of china. the scene of a japanese massacre in the 1930s
capital of vanuatu;capital of vanuatu
sicilia;the italian region on the island of sicily
bahrain;an island country in the persian gulf. oil revenues have funded some of the most progressive programs in the arabian nations
kirgizstan;a landlocked republic in west central asia bordering on northwestern china. formerly an asian soviet
luxemburg;the capital and largest city of luxembourg
beograd;capital and largest city of yugoslavia
capital of red china;capital of the people's republic of china in the hopeh province in northeastern china. 2nd largest chinese city
byelarus;a landlocked republic in eastern europe. formerly a european soviet
annam;a republic in indochina on the south china sea
last frontier;a state in northwestern north america. the 49th state admitted to the union. 'alaska is the largest state in the united states'
croatia;a balkan republic. formerly part of yugoslavia
tucson;a city in southeastern arizona
blighty;a slang term for england used by english troops serving abroad
maseru;the capital of lesotho. located in northwestern lesotho
nineveh;an ancient assyrian city
panama city;the capital and largest city of panama
basle;a city in northwestern switzerland
federal republic of germany;a republic in north-central europe
svizzera;a federal republic in central europe
hungary;a republic in central europe
ulaanbaatar;the capital and largest city of mongolia
capital of new mexico;capital of the state of new mexico. located in north central new mexico
hong kong;a british crown colony on the coast of s china. leased by china to britain in 1842 and returned in 1997. one of the world's leading commercial centers
valparaiso;the chief port and second largest city of chile. located on a wide harbor in central chile
capital of sri lanka;the capital and largest city of sri lanka. one of the largest harbors in the world. located on the western coast of the island
nouakchott;capital of mauritania. located in western mauritania near the atlantic coast
mocambique;a republic in southeastern africa on the indian ocean. became independent of portugal in 1975
comoros;a country on the comoro islands
birmingham;a city in central england. 2nd largest english city and an important industrial and transportation center
ruanda;a republic in central africa. formerly a german colony
state;the territory occupied by one of the constituent administrative districts of a nation. 'his state is in the deep south'
baltimore;the largest city in maryland. a major port and industrial center
capital of niger;the capital and largest city of niger
suisse;a federal republic in central europe
town;an urban area with a fixed boundary that is smaller than a city. 'they drive through town on their way to work'
pretoria;the seat of the executive branch of the government of south africa
indian reservation;a reservation set aside for the use of indians
noreg;a constitutional monarchy in northern europe
harlem;a district of manhattan. now largely a black ghetto
frg;a republic in north-central europe
leeds;a city on the river aire in west yorkshire in northern england. a center of the clothing industry
capital of ghana;the capital and largest city of ghana
capital of hawaii;the capital and largest city of hawaii. on the island of oahu
lazio;an ancient region of west central italy (southeast of rome) on the tyrrhenian sea
jamaican capital;capital and largest city of jamaica
port au prince;the capital and largest city of haiti
toledo;a city in central spain on the tagus river. famous for steel and swords since the first century
tyrol;a picturesque mountainous province of western austria
nutmeg state;a new england state. one of the original 13 colonies
chappel hill;a town in central north carolina. site of the university of north carolina
capital of cuba;capital and largest city of cuba. located in western cuba. one of the oldest cities in the americas
whitehorse;the provincial capital of the yukon territory
damascus;an ancient city (widely regarded as the world's oldest) and present capital and largest city of syria. according to the new testament, the apostle paul (then known as saul) underwent a dramatic conversion on the road to damascus
capital of france;the capital and largest city of france. and international center of culture and commerce
jerez de la frontera;a city in southwestern spain that is famous for making sherry
muscat;a port (on the gulf of oman) and capital of the sultanate of oman
acapulco;a fashionable resort city on mexico's pacific coast. known for beaches and water sports (including cliff diving)
oxford;a city in southern england northwest of london. site of oxford university
yukon;a territory in northwestern canada. site of the klondike gold rush in the 1890s
shenyang;a city in northeastern china
dominica;a country on the island of dominica
capital of south africa;the seat of the executive branch of the government of south africa
siam;country of southeastern asia. 'thailand is the official name of the former siam'
laotian capital;the capital and largest city of laos
mbabane;capital of swaziland. located in northwestern swaziland
shiraz;a city in central southwestern iran. ruins of ancient persepolis are nearby
bangladesh;a moslem republic in southern asia bordered by india to the north and west and east and the bay of bengal to the south. formerly part of india and then part of pakistan. it achieved independence in 1971
north borneo;a region of malaysia in northeastern borneo
mogadiscio;the capital and largest city of somalia
capital of jordan;the capital and largest city of jordan
brooklyn;a borough of new york city
old dominion;a state in the eastern united states. one of the original 13 colonies. one of the confederate states in the american civil war
bhutan;a principality in the himalayas northeast of india
pompeii;ancient city southeast of naples that was buried by a volcanic eruption from vesuvius
brunswick;a city in central germany
capital of syria;an ancient city (widely regarded as the world's oldest) and present capital and largest city of syria. according to the new testament, the apostle paul (then known as saul) underwent a dramatic conversion on the road to damascus
irish republic;a republic occupying most of the island of ireland
kyoto;a city in central japan on s honshu. a famous cultural center that was once the capital of japan
sodom;(old testament) an ancient city near the dead sea that (along with gomorrah) was destroyed by god for the wickedness of its inhabitants
rostov on don;a seaport in the european part of russia
slovenia;a balkan republic. formerly part of yugoslavia
syria;an asian republic in the middle east at the east end of the mediterranean
british capital;the capital and largest city of england. located on the thames in southeastern england. financial and industrial and cultural center
friuli venezia giulia;a region in northeastern italy
muenchen;the capital and largest city of bavaria in southeastern germany
zomba;a city in s malawi. was the capital until 1971
frunze;the capital of kyrgystan
south carolina;a state in the deep south. one of the original 13 colonies
cleveland;the largest city in ohio. located in northeastern ohio on lake erie. a major great lakes port
lansing;capital of the state of michigan. located in s michigan on the grand river
south yorkshire;a metropolitan county in northern england
burg;colloquial american term for a town. 'i've lived in this burg all my life'
people s republic of kampuchea;a nation in asia. was part of french-ruled indochina until 1946
faeroes;a self-governing colony of denmark on the faroe islands
wurzburg;a city of south central germany
basseterre;the capital of saint christopher-nevis on the island of saint christopher
germany;a republic in north-central europe
pfalz;a territory in southwestern germany formerly ruled by the counts palatine
exurbia;a residential area outside of a city and beyond suburbia
argos;an ancient city in southeastern greece. dominated the peloponnese in the 7th century bc
dc;the district occupied entirely by the city of washington
sicily;the italian region on the island of sicily
pittsburgh of the south;the largest city in alabama. located in northeastern alabama
maldives;a republic on the maldive islands
suburb;a residential district located on the outskirts of a city
kathmandu;the capital and largest city of nepal
saint john s;the capital of antigua and barbuda. located on the island of antigua
vienna;the capital and largest city of austria. located on the danube in northeastern austria. was the home of beethoven and brahms and hayden and mozart and schubert and strauss
capital of india;the capital of india is a division of the old city of delhi
portland;largest city in maine in the southwestern part of the state
trinidad and tobago;an island republic in the west indies off the northeastern coast of venezuela
yaounde;the capital of cameroon
seville;a city in southwestern spain. a major port and cultural center. the capital of bullfighting in spain
turf;the territory claimed by a juvenile gang as its own
chad;a landlocked desert republic in north-central africa. was under french control until 1960
turkey;a eurasian republic in asia minor and the balkans
persepolis;an ancient city that was the capital of the persian empire. now in ruins
sao paulo;an ultramodern city in southeastern brazil. the largest city in south america
casablanca;a port on the atlantic and the largest city of morocco
venezia euganea;a region of northeastern italy on the adriatic
assuan;an ancient city on the nile in egypt. site of the aswan high dam
milan;the capital of lombardy in northern italy. has been an international center of trade and industry since the middle ages
new orleans;a port and largest city in louisiana. located in southeastern louisiana near the mouth of the mississippi river. jazz originated among black musicians in the late 19th century. mardi gras is celebrated here each year
coyote state;a state in north central united states
buffalo;a city on lake erie in western new york (near niagara falls)
tampa;a resort city in western florida. located on tampa bay on the gulf of mexico
frankfort;the capital of kentucky. located in northern kentucky
milano;the capital of lombardy in northern italy. has been an international center of trade and industry since the middle ages
st. john s;the capital of antigua and barbuda. located on the island of antigua
queensland;a state in northeastern australia
victoria;a state in southeastern australia
vilnius;the capital and largest city of lithuania. located in southeastern lithuania
durham;a city of north central north carolina. site of duke university
capital of the dominican republic;the capital and largest city of the dominican republic
lisbon;capital and largest city and economic and cultural center of portugal. a major port in western portugal on tagus river where it broadens and empties into the atlantic
central african republic;a country in central africa. formerly under french control. became independent in 1960
gujerat;an industrialized state in western india that includes parts of bombay
topeka;the capital of the state of kansas. located in eastern kansas on the kansas river
capital of colorado;the state capital and largest city of colorado. located in central colorado on the south platte river
dutch capital;an industrial center and the nominal capital of the netherlands. center of the diamond-cutting industry. seat of an important stock exchange. known for its canals and the rijksmuseum art museum
atlanta;state capital and largest city of georgia. plundered and burned by sherman's army during the american civil war
kigali;the capital and largest city of rwanda. located in central rwanda
capital of guatemala;the capital and largest city of guatemala
capital of grenada;the capital and largest city of grenada
equatorial guinea;a country of west central africa (including islands in the gulf of guinea). became independent from spain in 1968
piemonte;the region of northwestern italy. includes the po valley
southern rhodesia;a landlocked republic in south central africa formerly called rhodesia
ireland;a republic occupying most of the island of ireland
british honduras;a country of central america on the caribbean. formerly under british control
capital of tajikistan;the capital of tajikistan
szechuan;a populous province of south central china
michigan;a midwestern state in north central united states in the great lakes region
capital of lithuania;the capital and largest city of lithuania. located in southeastern lithuania
cincinnati;a city in s ohio on the ohio river
switzerland;a federal republic in central europe
koweit;a seaport on the persian gulf and capital of kuwait
guinea;a republic in eastern africa on the atlantic. formerly a french colony
market town;a (usually small) town where a public market is held at stated times
dusseldorf;an industrial city in western germany on the rhine
capital of san marino;the capital and only city of san marino
somalia;a republic in extreme eastern africa
st. john;a port in eastern canada. the largest city in new brunswick
dover;the capital of the state of delaware
capital of djibouti;the capital and largest city of djibouti
kent;a county in southeastern england. the first to be colonized by the romans
zambia;a republic in central africa. formerly controlled (as part of northern rhodesia) by great britain until it gained independence within the commonwealth in 1964
empire state of the south;a state in southeastern united states. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
eternal city;capital and largest city of italy. on the tiber. seat of the roman catholic church. formerly the capital of the roman republic and the roman empire
kirghizstan;a landlocked republic in west central asia bordering on northwestern china. formerly an asian soviet
pasadena;a city in southwestern california east of los angeles
omaha;largest city in nebraska. located in eastern nebraska on the missouri river
archdeaconry;the territorial jurisdiction of an archdeacon
dusanbe;the capital of tajikistan
african country;countries occupying the african continent
antigua and barbuda;a country in the northern leeward islands
byelorussia;a landlocked republic in eastern europe. formerly a european soviet
rostov;a seaport in the european part of russia
male;the capital of maldives on male island in the center of the islands
great britain;a kingdom divided into england and scotland and wales and northern ireland
city;an incorporated administrative district established by state charter. 'the city raised the tax rate'
south australia;a state in south central australia
adrianopolis;a city in northwestern turkey. a thracian town that was rebuilt and renamed by the roman emperor hadrian
norway;a constitutional monarchy in northern europe
alep;a city in northwestern syria
leningrad;a city in the european part of russia. 2nd largest russian city. located at the head of the gulf of finland on the neva river. former capital of russia
parish;the local subdivision of a diocese committed to one pastor
springfield;capital of the state of illinois
buganda;a state of uganda and site of a former bantu kingdom
princeton;a university town in central new jersey
alabama;a state in the southeastern united states on the gulf of mexico. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
russian capital;formerly capital of both the soviet union and soviet russia. since 1992 the capital of russia
finland;republic in northern europe
minnesota;a midwestern state
brasil;the largest latin american country and the largest portuguese speaking country in the world. located in eastern south america. world's leading coffee exporter
boston;state capital and largest city of massachusetts
salt lake city;the capital and largest city of utah. located near the great salt lake in north central utah. world capital of the mormon church
columbus;the state capital of ohio. located in the center of the state. site of ohio state university
nashville;capital of the state of tennessee. located in the north central part of the state. known for country music
the netherlands;a constitutional monarchy in northwestern europe. half the country lies below sea level
west end;the part of west central london containing the main entertainment and shopping areas
gabun;a republic in west central africa
great falls;a city in central montana on the missouri river. a center of extensive hydroelectric power
kazakhstan;a landlocked republic south of russia and northeast of the caspian sea. the original turkic-speaking inhabitants were overrun by mongols in the 13th century. an asian soviet from 1936 to 1991
yalta;a resort city in s ukraine on the black sea. scene of the allied conference between churchill and stalin and roosevelt in 1945
zimbabwe;a landlocked republic in south central africa formerly called rhodesia
trust territory;a dependent country. administered by a country under the supervision of the united nations
algeria;a republic in northwestern africa. colonized by france in the 19th century but gained autonomy in the early 1960s
riyadh;capital of saudi arabia
iowa;a state in midwestern united states
slum;a district of a city marked by poverty and inferior living conditions
capital;a seat of government
boeotia;a district of ancient greece northwest of athens
land of enchantment;a state in southwestern united states on the mexican border
greece;a republic in southeastern europe on the southern part of the balkan peninsula. known for grapes and olives and olive oil
tel aviv;the largest city and financial center of israel. located in western israel on the mediterranean
russian soviet federated socialist republic;formerly the largest soviet socialist republic in the ussr occupying eastern europe and northern asia
liberian capital;the capital and chief port and largest city of liberia
kirgizia;a landlocked republic in west central asia bordering on northwestern china. formerly an asian soviet
latium;an ancient region of west central italy (southeast of rome) on the tyrrhenian sea
capital of arkansas;the state capital and largest city of arkansas
capital of nigeria;capital and largest city and economic center of nigeria. a port located in southwestern nigeria on the gulf of guinea
pusan;a city in southeastern south korea on the korean strait. the chief port and second largest city
bordeaux;a port city in southwestern france. a major center of the wine trade
papeete;the capital of french polynesia on the northwestern coast of tahiti
nicaraguan capital;the capital and largest city of managua
buckeye state;a midwestern state in north central united states in the great lakes region
manitoba;one of the three prairie provinces in central canada
capital of new zealand;the capital of new zealand
lhasa;the sacred city of lamaism. known as the forbidden city for its former inaccessibility and hostility to strangers
marches;a region in central italy
memphis;largest city of tennessee. located in southwestern tennessee on the mississippi river
halifax;provincial capital and largest city of nova scotia
tbilisi;the capital and largest city of georgia on the kura river
havana;capital and largest city of cuba. located in western cuba. one of the oldest cities in the americas
cambridge;a city in eastern england on the river cam. site of cambridge university
northern ireland;a division of the united kingdom located on the northern part of the island of ireland
yedo;the capital and largest city of japan. the economic and cultural center of japan
georgetown;a section of northwestern washington dc
capital of canada;the capital of canada (located in southeastern ontario across the ottawa river from quebec)
sardegna;the italian region on the island of sardinia. the kingdom of sardinia was the nucleus for uniting italy during the 19th century
malta;a republic on the island of malta in the mediterranean
pernambuco;a city of northeastern brazil on the atlantic
anchorage;a city in south central alaska. 'anchorage is the largest city in alaska'
cyprus;a country on the island of cyprus. 80% of the people are of greek origin and 20% or turkish origin
aswan;an ancient city on the nile in egypt. site of the aswan high dam
konakri;a port and the capital of guinea
ulan bator;the capital and largest city of mongolia
utica;a city in central new york
brazzaville;the capital and largest city of the republic of congo
trenton;capital of the state of new jersey. located in western new jersey on the delaware river
guadalajara;a city in southwestern mexico. a popular health resort and site of architecture from the spanish colonial era
goteborg;a port in southwestern sweden. second largest city in sweden
capital of ohio;the state capital of ohio. located in the center of the state. site of ohio state university
bolivia;a republic in western south america. simon bolivar founded bolivia in 1825 after winning independence from spain
tin pan alley;a city district (originally in new york) where composers and publishers of popular music do business
thorshavn;the administrative center of the faroe islands
dominion;"a territorial possession controlled by a ruling state"
bagdad;capital and largest city of iraq. located on the tigris river. 'baghdad is one of the great cities of the moslem world'
algerie;a republic in northwestern africa. colonized by france in the 19th century but gained autonomy in the early 1960s
philippines;a republic on the philippine islands
bahrein;an island country in the persian gulf. oil revenues have funded some of the most progressive programs in the arabian nations
rangoon;the capital and largest city of myanmar. located in the south on the rangoon river near its outlet in the irrawaddy river delta
republic of the sudan;a republic in northeastern africa
idaho;a state in the rocky mountains
omdurman;the largest city of sudan. located in the central sudan on the white nile opposite khartoum
northern territory;a territory in north central australia
punta arenas;a city in s chile on the strait of magellan. the southernmost city in the world
egypt;a republic in northeastern africa. site of an ancient civilization that flourished from 2600 to 30 bc
greenwich;a borough of greater london on the thames. zero degrees of longitude runs through greenwich. time is measured relative to greenwich mean time
bayonne;a city in northeastern new jersey
cartagena;a port in southeastern spain on the mediterranean
city district;a district of a town or city
syracuse;a city in central new york
port of spain;the capital and largest city of trinidad and tobago
saint petersburg;a city in western florida on tampa bay. a popular winter resort
newport;a port city in southeastern wales
orissa;state in eastrn india on the bay of bengal
mongolia;a landlocked socialist republic in central asia
belgium;a monarchy in northwestern europe. headquarters for the european common market and for the north atlantic treaty organization
samoa;a constitutional monarchy on the western part of the islands of samoa in the s pacific
fayetteville;a city in northwestern arkansas. site of the university of arkansas
north star state;a midwestern state
cologne;a commercial center in western germany on the rhine river
toledo;an industrial city in northwestern ohio on lake erie
puglia;a region in southeastern italy on the adriatic
leyden;a city in the western netherlands. residence of the pilgrim fathers for 11 years before they sailed for america in 1620
kaunas;a city in central lithuania
dyushambe;the capital of tajikistan
boom town;a town enjoying sudden prosperity
oaxaca de juarez;a city of southeastern mexico. the provincial capital of the state of oaxaca. inhabited chiefly by indians
district;"a region marked off for administrative or other purposes"
utah;a state in the western united states. settled in 1847 by mormons led by brigham young
capital of togo;capital and largest city of togo. located in the s on the gulf of guinea
erivan;capital of armenia
abyssinia;ethiopia is a republic in northeastern africa formerly called abyssinia
oxford;any of numerous towns and cities in the united states. especially oxford, mississippi, home of william faulkner and seat of the university of mississippi
precinct;a district of a city or town marked out for administrative purposes
dacca;the capital and largest city of bangladesh
capital of tibet;the sacred city of lamaism. known as the forbidden city for its former inaccessibility and hostility to strangers
ocean state;a state in new england. one of the original 13 colonies. the smallest state
capital of italy;capital and largest city of italy. on the tiber. seat of the roman catholic church. formerly the capital of the roman republic and the roman empire
capital of liberia;the capital and chief port and largest city of liberia
mount rushmore state;a state in north central united states
mukden;a city in northeastern china
gomorrha;(old testament) an ancient city near the dead sea that (along with sodom) was destroyed by god for the vice and depravity of its inhabitants
somali republic;a republic in extreme eastern africa
sudan;a republic in northeastern africa
rhode island;a state in new england. one of the original 13 colonies. the smallest state
hawaiian capital;the capital and largest city of hawaii. on the island of oahu
cadiz;a port in southwestern spain
tchad;a landlocked desert republic in north-central africa. was under french control until 1960
baton rouge;capital of louisiana
capital of egypt;the capital of egypt and the largest city in africa. a major port just s of the nile delta. formerly the home of the pharaohs
tara;a village in eastern ireland (northwest of dublin). seat of irish kings until 6th century
houston;the largest city in texas. located in southeastern texas near the gulf of mexico. site of the national aeronautics and space administration
yukon territory;a territory in northwestern canada. site of the klondike gold rush in the 1890s
yaltopya;ethiopia is a republic in northeastern africa formerly called abyssinia
merida;the capital of the mexican state of yucatan
land of opportunity;a state in south central united states. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
capital of lebanon;capital and largest city of lebanon. located in western lebanon on the mediterranean
protectorate;a territory controlled by (but not a possession of) a stronger state
free state;a mid-atlantic state. one of the original 13 colonies
galloway;a district in southwestern scotland
vietnam;a republic in indochina on the south china sea
capital of florida;capital of the state of florida. located in northern florida
salvador;a republic on the pacific coast of central america
eastern samoa;a united states territory on the eastern part of the island of samoa
gujarat;an industrialized state in western india that includes parts of bombay
uzbekistan;a landlocked republic in west central asia. formerly an asian soviet
armenia;a republic in southwestern asia. formerly an asian soviet. throughout 2500 years the armenian people have been invaded and oppressed by their neighbors
india;a republic in s asia. 2nd most populous country in the world
capital of swaziland;capital of swaziland. located in northwestern swaziland
south american nation;countries occupying the south american continent
burkina faso;formerly upper volta
capital of pakistan;the capital of pakistan in the north on a plateau. the site was chosen in 1959
motherland;the country where you were born
voting precinct;one of several districts into which a city or town is divided for voting. each contains one polling place
asian nation;countries occupying the asian continent
enclave;an enclosed territory that is culturally distinct from the foreign territory that surrounds it
florence;a city in central italy on the arno river. provincial capital of tuscany. center of the italian renaissance from 14th to 16th centuries
baghdad;capital and largest city of iraq. located on the tigris river. 'baghdad is one of the great cities of the moslem world'
oran;a port in northwestern algeria and the country's 2nd largest city
kenya;a republic in eastern africa. major archeological discoveries have been made in the great rift valley in kenya
vermont;a state in new england
france;a republic in western europe. the largest country wholly in europe
golden state;a state in the western united states on the pacific. the 3rd largest state. known for earthquakes
cuidad bolivar;a port in eastern venezuela on the orinoco river
saratov;an industrial city in the european part of russia
malaysian capital;the capital and largest city of malaysia
capital of bahrain;the capital of bahrain. located at the northern end of bahrain island
indian capital;the capital of india is a division of the old city of delhi
santiago;the capital and largest city of chile. one of the largest cities in south america
commune;the smallest administrative district of several european countries (belgium and france and italy and switzerland)
hawkeye state;a state in midwestern united states
capital of uganda;the capital and largest city of uganda
berkeley;a city in california on the eastern shore of san francisco bay. site of the university of california at berkeley
capital of wisconsin;capital of the state of wisconsin. located in the southern part of state. site of the main branch of the university of wisconsin
stockholm;the capital and largest city of sweden. located in s sweden on the baltic. 'the nobel prize is awarded in stockholm'
hangzhou;a city of eastern china on hangzhou bay (an inlet of the east china sea). regarded by marco polo as the finest city in the world
capital of brazil;the capital of brazil. a city built on the central plateau and inaugurated in 1960
christiania;the capital and largest city of norway. the country's main port is located at the head of fjord on norway's southern coast
albania;a republic in southeastern europe on the adriatic coast of the balkan peninsula
residential area;a district where people live. occupied primarily by private residences
concord;capital of the state of new hampshire. located in south central new hampshire on the merrimack river
quebec;the french-speaking capital of the province of quebec. situated on the saint lawrence river
mandalay;a city in central myanmar north of rangoon
rabat;the capital of morocco. located in the northwestern on the atlantic coast
bucharest;capital and largest city of romania
toscana;a region in central italy
delaware;a mid-atlantic state. one of the original 13 colonies
first state;a mid-atlantic state. one of the original 13 colonies
odessa;a city of south central ukraine
saint kitts and nevis;a country on several of the leeward islands. located east southeast of puerto rico
canadian province;canada is divided into 12 provinces for administrative purposes
capital of mozambique;the capital and largest city of mozambique
rhodesia;a landlocked republic in south central africa formerly called rhodesia
spanish guinea;a country of west central africa (including islands in the gulf of guinea). became independent from spain in 1968
buenos aires;capital and largest city of argentina. located in eastern argentina near uruguay. argentina's chief port and industrial and cultural center
greenwich village;a mainly residential district of manhattan. 'the village' became a home for many writers and artists in the 20th century
tenderloin;a city district known for its vice and high crime rate
danzig;a city of northern poland near the mouth of the vistula
malabo;the capital and largest city of equatorial guinea on the island of bioko in the gulf of guinea
colombo;the capital and largest city of sri lanka. one of the largest harbors in the world. located on the western coast of the island
cape verde;an island country in the atlantic off the coast of senegal
empire state;a mid-atlantic state. one of the original 13 colonies
capital of washington;capital of the state of washington. located in western washington on puget sound
babylon;the chief city of ancient mesopotamia and capitol of the ancient kingdom of babylonia
capital of ecuador;the capital of ecuador
alma ata;the capital of kazakstan
capital of hungary;capital and largest city of hungary. located on the danube river in north-central hungary
prefecture;the district administered by a prefect (as in france or japan or the roman empire)
capital of afghanistan;the capital and largest city of afghanistan. located in eastern afghanistan
naples;a port and tourist center in southwestern italy. capital of the campania region
afars and issas;a country in eastern africa on the gulf of aden. formerly under french control
suburbia;a residential district located on the outskirts of a city
azerbaijan;a landlocked republic in southwestern asia. formerly an asian soviet
emilia romagna;a region of north central italy on the adriatic
tripoli;a port in northern lebanon on the mediterranean
nihon;a constitutional monarchy occupying a string of islands east of asia. a world leader in electronics and automobile manufacture and ship building
los angeles;a city in southern california. most populous city of california
charleston;a port city in southeastern south carolina
leicester;a largely agricultural county in central england
yafo;a port in western israel on the mediterranean. incorporated into tel aviv in 1950
capital of central africa;the capital and largest city of the central africa republic
sioux city;a city in northeastern iowa
el iskandariyah;the chief port of egypt. located where the nile river empties into the mediterranean sea. founded by alexander the great. the capital of ancient egypt
guatemala;a republic in central america. noted for low per capita income and illiteracy. politically unstable
lothian region;a district in southeast central scotland
soudan;a republic in northeastern africa
st. george s;the capital and largest city of grenada
zaragoza;an ancient city in northeastern spain. formerly the capital of aragon
capital of kazakstan;the capital of kazakstan
territorial division;a district defined for administrative purposes
rumania;a balkan republic in southeastern europe
lancaster;a city in northwestern england
eparchy;a diocese of the eastern christian church
ashkhabad;the capital and largest city of turkmenistan
cuba;a country on the island of cuba
irish capital;capital and largest city and major port of the republic of ireland
jackson;capital of the state of mississippi on the pearl river
malmo;a port in s sweden
delhi;a city in north-central india
capital of luxembourg;the capital and largest city of luxembourg
algiers;an ancient port on the mediterranean. the capital and largest city of algeria
helsinki;the capital and largest city of finland. located in s finland. a major port and commercial and cultural center
maine;a state in new england
county courthouse;the town or city that is the seat of government for a county
nob hill;a fashionable neighborhood in san francisco
saint paul;capital of the state of minnesota. located in southeastern minnesota on the mississippi river adjacent to minneapolis. one of the twin cities
old colony;a state in new england. one of the original 13 colonies
hull;a large fishing port
republic of south africa;a republic at the southernmost part of africa. first european settlers were dutch (known as boers)
harrisburg;capital of pennsylvania. located in s part of state
ilion;an ancient city in asia minor that was the site of the trojan war
capital of malta;the capital of malta. located on the northeastern coast of the island
taegu;a city in southeastern south korea
bulgarian capital;capital and largest city of bulgaria
buffer country;a small neutral state between two rival powers
phnom penh;the capital and largest city of kampuchea
beckley;a city in southern west virginia
african nation;countries occupying the african continent
capital of greece;the capital and largest city of greece. named after athena (its patron goddess). 'in the 5th century bc ancient athens was the world's most powerful and civilized city'
anvers;a port in northern belgium on the scheldt river
staten island;a borough of new york city
kampala;the capital and largest city of uganda
lynchburg;a city in central virginia
brunei;a sultanate in northwestern borneo
budapest;capital and largest city of hungary. located on the danube river in north-central hungary
stalino;an industrial city in the donets basin
burundi;a republic in east central africa
taichung;a city in taiwan
kansu;a province in north-central china. formerly part of the silk road to turkistan and india and persia
portuguese guinea;a republic in western africa
peace garden state;a state of north central united states bordering on canada
copenhagen;the capital and largest city of denmark. sometimes called 'the paris of the north'
beijing;capital of the people's republic of china in the hopeh province in northeastern china. 2nd largest chinese city
helena;capital of the state of montana. located in western montana
amsterdam;an industrial center and the nominal capital of the netherlands. center of the diamond-cutting industry. seat of an important stock exchange. known for its canals and the rijksmuseum art museum
capital of senegala;the capital and largest city of senegal
morgantown;a city in northern west virginia on the monongahela river near the pennsylvania border. site of the university of west virginia
kitakyushu;a japanese city on northern kyushu
honduran capital;the capital and largest city of honduras
seat;a center of authority (as a city from which authority is exercised)
macao;a portuguese province on the south coast of china and two islands in the south china sea. reverts to china in 1999
chelyabinsk;a city in the asian part of russia
capital of nationalist china;the capital of nationalist china. located in northern taiwan
firenze;a city in central italy on the arno river. provincial capital of tuscany. center of the italian renaissance from 14th to 16th centuries
madrid;the capital and largest city of spain. home of the museo del prado (an outstanding art museum)
aberdeen;a city in northeastern scotland on the north sea
capital of maine;the capital of the state of maine
turkomen;a republic in asia east of the caspian sea and south of kazakhstan and north of iran. an asian soviet from 1925 to 1991
mandate;"a territorial possession controlled by a ruling state"
bridgeport;a port in southwestern connecticut on long island sound
lombardy;a region of north central italy bordering switzerland
capital of switzerland;the capital of switzerland. located in western switzerland
capital of the united kingdom;the capital and largest city of england. located on the thames in southeastern england. financial and industrial and cultural center
loyang;a city in east central china. the capital of ancient china during several dynasties
cote d ivoire;a republic in west africa on the gulf of guinea. one of the most prosperous and politically stable countries in africa
new south wales;an australian state in southeastern australia
tenement district;a residential district occupied primarily with tenement houses
natal;a port in northeastern brazil
lanzhou;the capital city of the chinese province of gansu on the yellow river
vatican city;an independent state inside the city of rome. home to the pope and central administration of the roman catholic church
fiji;an independent state within the british commonwealth located on the fiji islands
padua;a city in veneto
belgrade;capital and largest city of yugoslavia
soviet union;a former communist country in eastern europe and northern asia. established in 1922. included russia and 14 other soviet socialist republics (ukraine and byelorussia an others). officially dissolved 31 december 1991
banff;a popular vacation spot in the canadian rockies
olympia;capital of the state of washington. located in western washington on puget sound
west pakistan;a moslem republic in s asia. formerly part of india
bogota;capital and largest city of colombia. located in central colombia on a high fertile plain
rio;the former capital and 2nd largest city of brazil. famous as a tourist attraction
parkersburg;a city in northwestern west virginia on the ohio river
capital of byelorussia;the capital of belarus and of the commonwealth of independent states
citta del vaticano;an independent state inside the city of rome. home to the pope and central administration of the roman catholic church
johannesburg;the largest city in south africa. located in northeastern part of the country. commercial center for diamond and gold industries
algerian capital;an ancient port on the mediterranean. the capital and largest city of algeria
new york;the largest city in new york state. located in southeastern new york at the mouth of the hudson river. a major financial and cultural center
botswana;a republic in south-central africa that became independent from british control in the 1960s
juarez;a city in northern mexico on the rio grande opposite el paso
danmark;a constitutional monarchy in northern europe
bucuresti;capital and largest city of romania
capital of austria;the capital and largest city of austria. located on the danube in northeastern austria. was the home of beethoven and brahms and hayden and mozart and schubert and strauss
swaziland;a monarchy in southeastern africa
austria;a mountainous republic in central europe. under the hapsburgs (1278-1918) austria maintained control of the holy roman empire and was a leader in european politics until the 19th century
el paso;a city in western texas on the mexican border. located on the rio grande river opposite the mexican city of ciudad juarez
nuremburg;a city in southeastern germany. site of allied trials of nazi war criminals (1945-46)
nepal;a small asian country high in the himalayas between india and tibet
torino;capital city of the piemonte region of northwestern italy
cambridge;a city in massachusetts just north of boston. site of harvard university and the massachusetts institute of technology
silver state;a state in the western united states
country of origin;the country where you were born
archdiocese;the diocese of an archbishop
capital of saudi arabia;capital of saudi arabia
mile high city;the state capital and largest city of colorado. located in central colorado on the south platte river
manama;the capital of bahrain. located at the northern end of bahrain island
pennsylvania;a mid-atlantic state. one of the original 13 colonies
bethelem;a small town near jerusalem on the west bank of the jordan river where jesus was born
lincolnshire;an agricultural county of eastern england on the north sea
metropolis;a large and densely populated urban area. may include several independent administrative districts. 'ancient troy was a great city'
laos;a mountainous republic in southeastern asia
capital of qatar;the capital and chief port of qatar
irak;a republic in the middle east. the ancient civilization of mesopotamia was in the area now known as iraq
koln;a commercial center in western germany on the rhine river
newark;the largest city in new jersey. located in northeastern new jersey
aleppo;a city in northwestern syria
blackpool;a resort town in lancashire in northwestern england on the irish sea. famous for its tower
yeddo;the capital and largest city of japan. the economic and cultural center of japan
peking;capital of the people's republic of china in the hopeh province in northeastern china. 2nd largest chinese city
saigon;a city in s vietnam. formerly (as saigon) it was the capital of french indochina
spanish capital;the capital and largest city of spain. home of the museo del prado (an outstanding art museum)
macau;a portuguese province on the south coast of china and two islands in the south china sea. reverts to china in 1999
wolverine state;a midwestern state in north central united states in the great lakes region
tajikistan;a landlocked mountainous republic in central asia north of afghanistan. formerly an asian soviet
antwerp;a port in northern belgium on the scheldt river
nation;the territory occupied by a nation. 'he returned to the land of his birth'. 'he visited several european countries'
athens;the capital and largest city of greece. named after athena (its patron goddess). 'in the 5th century bc ancient athens was the world's most powerful and civilized city'
luxor;a city in central egypt on the east bank of the nile. site of the temple of luxor
fayetteville;a town in central west virginia on the new river
acadia;the french-speaking part of the canadian maritime provinces
liverpool;a large city in northwestern england. its port is the country's major outlet for industrial exports
calcutta;the largest city in india and one of the largest cities in the world. located in eastern india. suffers from poverty and overcrowding
kansas;a state in midwestern united states
capital of mexico;the capital and largest city of mexico is a political and cultural and commercial and industrial center. one of the world's largest cities
pine tree state;a state in new england
nijmegen;an industrial city in the eastern netherlands
barcelona;a city in northeastern spain on the mediterranean. 2nd largest spanish city and the largest port and commercial center. has been a center for radical political beliefs
malaya;a country in southeastern asia on borneo and the malay peninsula
nagasaki;a city in southern japan on kyushu. a leading port and shipbuilding center. on august 9, 1945 nagasaki became the second populated area to receive an atomic bomb
aqaba;jordan's port. located in southwestern jordan on the gulf of aqaba
camden;a city in southwestern new jersey on the delaware river near pittsburgh
djakarta;capital and largest city of indonesia. located on the island of java. founded by the dutch in 17th century
malagasy republic;a republic on the island of madagascar
capital of paraguay;the capital and chief port of paraguay
salem;a city in northeastern massachusetts. site of the witchcraft trials in 1692
shooting preserve;a preserve on which hunting is permitted during certain months of the year
ohio;a midwestern state in north central united states in the great lakes region
rio de janeiro;the former capital and 2nd largest city of brazil. famous as a tourist attraction
fukuoka;a city in southern japan on kyushu
texas;the second largest state. located in southwestern united states on the gulf of mexico
alberta;one of the three prairie provinces in western canada. rich in oil and natural gas and minerals
county seat;the town or city that is the seat of government for a county
paramaribo;the capital and largest city and major port of surinam
hell s kitchen;a district in manhattan formerly noted for its slums and vice
krakow;an industrial city in s poland on the vistula
saskatoon;a city is s saskatchewan
capital of kyrgystan;the capital of kyrgystan
sichuan;a populous province of south central china
solomon islands;the southern solomon islands that form an independent state in the british commonwealth
capital of arizona;the state capital and largest city of arizona
capital of thailand;the capital and largest city of thailand. a leading city in southeastern asia. noted for buddhist architecture
little rock;the state capital and largest city of arkansas
breslau;a city in southwestern poland on the oder
denmark;a constitutional monarchy in northern europe
korinthos;the modern city is near the cite of the ancient city that was 2nd only to athens
veneto;a region of northeastern italy on the adriatic
bismarck;capital of the state of north dakota. located in south central north dakota overlooking the missouri river
virginia;a state in the eastern united states. one of the original 13 colonies. one of the confederate states in the american civil war
capital of the soviet union;formerly capital of both the soviet union and soviet russia. since 1992 the capital of russia
novosibirsk;a city in the asian part of russia
greensboro;a city of north central north carolina
singan;a city of central china. capital of ancient chinese empire 221-206 bc
tsaritsyn;a city in the european part of russia on the volga. site of german defeat in world war ii in the winter of 1942-43
capital of venezuela;the capital and largest city of venezuela
sarawak;a region of malaysia on northwestern borneo
malawi;a landlocked republic in s africa
capital of iceland;the capital and largest city of iceland
espana;a kingdom in southwestern europe on the iberian peninsula. a former colonial power
vientiane;the capital and largest city of laos
russia;a federation in eastern europe and northern asia. formerly soviet russia. since 1992 an independent state
reading;a city on the river thames in berkshire in s england
sydney;the largest australian city located in southeastern australia. state capital of new south wales. australia's chief port
adelaide;the state capital of south australia
mombasa;a port in s kenya on a coral island in a bay of the indian ocean
jacksonville;a port and important commercial center in northeastern florida
green bay;a city of eastern wisconsin on an arm of lake michigan
new hampshire;a state in new england. one of the original 13 colonies
chicago;largest city in illinois. located on lake michigan
rabbit warren;an overcrowded residential area
sagebrush state;a state in the western united states
tallinn;the capital and largest city of estonia
n djamena;the capital and largest city of chad. located in the southwestern on the shari river
osaka;an industrialized city of s honshu in japan on osaka bay
cracow;an industrial city in s poland on the vistula
goeteborg;a port in southwestern sweden. second largest city in sweden
belorussia;a landlocked republic in eastern europe. formerly a european soviet
capital of somalia;the capital and largest city of somalia
manchester;largest city in new hampshire. located in southeastern new hampshire on the merrimack river
l aquila;the provincial capital of the abruzzi region in central italy
sian;a city of central china. capital of ancient chinese empire 221-206 bc
iraq;a republic in the middle east. the ancient civilization of mesopotamia was in the area now known as iraq
scandinavian nation;countries occupying scandinavia
volgograd;a city in the european part of russia on the volga. site of german defeat in world war ii in the winter of 1942-43
portugal;a republic in southwestern europe. portuguese explorers and colonists in the 15th and 16th centuries created a vast overseas empire (including brazil)
white russia;a landlocked republic in eastern europe. formerly a european soviet
ciudad juarez;a city in northern mexico on the rio grande opposite el paso
toronto;the provincial capital and largest city in ontario (and the largest city in canada)
myanmar;a mountainous republic in southeastern asia on the bay of bengal. 'much opium is grown in myanmar'
madison;capital of the state of wisconsin. located in the southern part of state. site of the main branch of the university of wisconsin
timbuktu;a city in central mali near the niger river. formerly famous for its gold trade
bihar;a state of northeastern india
colombia;a republic in northwestern south america. the major legal crop is coffee but cocaine is also a major export
norfolk;largest city of virginia. located in southeastern virginia. headquarters of the united states atlantic fleet
chile;a republic in s south america on the western slopes of the andes
palermo;the capital of sicily. located in northwestern sicily. an important port for 3000 years
lima;capital and largest city and economic center of peru. located in western peru. capital of the spanish empire in the new world until the 19th century
bari;capital city of the apulia region on the adriatic coast
warsaw;the capital and largest city of poland. located in central poland
capital of burundi;the capital and largest city of burundi. 'usumbura was renamed bujumbura when burundi became independent in 1962'
bangla desh;a moslem republic in southern asia bordered by india to the north and west and east and the bay of bengal to the south. formerly part of india and then part of pakistan. it achieved independence in 1971
red light district;a district with many brothels
assur;an ancient assyrian city
rwanda;a republic in central africa. formerly a german colony
bida;the capital and chief port of qatar
kabul;the capital and largest city of afghanistan. located in eastern afghanistan
luxembourg;a grand duchy (a constitutional monarchy) in northwestern europe between france and belgium and germany. an international financial center
tabriz;an ancient city in northwestern iran. known for hot springs
capital of the philippines;the capital and largest city of the philippines. located on southern luzon
suriname;a republic in northeastern south america on the atlantic
koweit;an arab kingdom in asia on the northwestern coast of the persian gulf. a major source of petroleum
saragossa;an ancient city in northeastern spain. formerly the capital of aragon
capital of tennessee;capital of the state of tennessee. located in the north central part of the state. known for country music
palatinate;a territory in southwestern germany formerly ruled by the counts palatine
abruzzi e molise;a mountainous region of central italy on the adriatic
indonesia;a republic in southeastern asia including more than 13,000 islands. freed from dutch control in 1949. the principal oil producer in the far east and pacific regions
panama;a republic on the isthmus of panama
thessalonika;a city in northeastern greece on an inlet of the aegean sea. the 2nd largest city of greece
byzantium;an ancient city on the bosporus founded by the greeks. site of modern istanbul
st. petersburg;a city in western florida on tampa bay. a popular winter resort
yisrael;jewish republic in southwestern asia at eastern end of mediterranean. formerly part of palestine
fort lamy;the capital and largest city of chad. located in the southwestern on the shari river
guyana;a republic in northeastern south america
tadjik;a landlocked mountainous republic in central asia north of afghanistan. formerly an asian soviet
county palatine;the territory of a count palatine
hsian;a city of central china. capital of ancient chinese empire 221-206 bc
kansas city;a city is western missouri
granada;a city in southeastern spain. site of the alhambra (a palace and fortress built by moslems in the middle ages) which is now a major tourist attraction
edmonton;the capital and largest city of the province of alberta
massachusetts;a state in new england. one of the original 13 colonies
st. vincent and the grenadines;an island country in the central windward islands
saqqara;a town in northern egypt. site of the oldest egyptian pyramids (the step pyramid)
fringe;a part of the city far removed from the center. 'they built a factory on the outskirts of the city'
prince edward island;an island in the gulf of saint lawrence. the smallest province of canada
porto rico;a self-governing commonwealth associated with the united states occupying the island of puerto rico
lone star state;the second largest state. located in southwestern united states on the gulf of mexico
lebanon;an asian republic at east end of mediterranean
louisville;the largest city in kentucky. located in north central kentucky on the ohio river. site of the kentucky derby
edinburgh;the capital of scotland. located in the lothian region on the south side of the firth of forth
aukland;the largest city and principal port of new zealand
aloha state;a state in the united states in the central pacific on the hawaiian islands
recife;a city of northeastern brazil on the atlantic
valdosta;a city in s georgia
british columbia;a province in western canada
ghetto;a residential district of a city in which jews are required to live
oman;a strategically located monarchy on the southern and eastern coasts of the arabian peninsula
beirut;capital and largest city of lebanon. located in western lebanon on the mediterranean
capital of malaysia;the capital and largest city of malaysia
buffer state;a small neutral state between two rival powers
spain;a kingdom in southwestern europe on the iberian peninsula. a former colonial power
united arab emirates s capital;a city of eastern arabia and capital of the united arab emirates
orleans;a city on the loire river in north central france. site of the siege of orleans by the english (1428-1429)
viceroyalty;a district or province governed by a viceroy
old country;the country of origin of an immigrant
hoosier state;a state in midwestern united states
uganda;a landlocked republic in east africa
hanover;a port city in northwestern germany
city of brotherly love;the largest city in pennsylvania. located in the southeastern part of the state on the delaware river. site of independence hall where the declaration of independence and the constitution were signed. site of the university of pennsylvania
paraguay;a republic in south central south america
warren;an overcrowded residential area
capital of indonesia;capital and largest city of indonesia. located on the island of java. founded by the dutch in 17th century
san diego;a city of s california on san diego bay near the mexican border. site of an important naval base
bamako;the capital of mali. located in the s on the niger
togo;formerly part of french west africa
county town;(british) the town or city that is the seat of government for a shire
lucania;a region of s italy (forming the instep of the italian 'boot')
capital of argentina;capital and largest city of argentina. located in eastern argentina near uruguay. argentina's chief port and industrial and cultural center
attica;the territory of athens in ancient greece
verona;a city in veneto on the river adige
peterburg;a city in the european part of russia. 2nd largest russian city. located at the head of the gulf of finland on the neva river. former capital of russia
acapulco de juarez;a fashionable resort city on mexico's pacific coast. known for beaches and water sports (including cliff diving)
sparta;an ancient greek city famous for military prowess. the dominant city of the peloponnesus prior to the 4th century bc
capital of sudan;the capital of sudan located at the confluence of the blue nile and white nile
venue;in law: the jurisdiction where a trial will be held
apulia;a region in southeastern italy on the adriatic
long beach;a city in southern california
lanchow;the capital city of the chinese province of gansu on the yellow river
gilbert and ellice islands;a former british colony in micronesia
capital of yugoslavia;capital and largest city of yugoslavia
city;a large and densely populated urban area. may include several independent administrative districts. 'ancient troy was a great city'
wroclaw;a city in southwestern poland on the oder
stambul;the largest city and former capital of turkey. built on the site of ancient byzantium. seat of the eastern orthodox church
constitution state;a new england state. one of the original 13 colonies
peru;a republic in western south america. was the heart of the inca empire from the 12th to 16th centuries
frankfort;a german city. an industrial and commercial and financial center
salisbury;the capital and largest city of zimbabwe
hobart;a port and state capital of tasmania
eritrea;a province of northern ethiopia on the red sea
flanders;a medieval country in northern europe that included regions now parts of northern france and belgium and southwestern netherlands
mississippi;a state in the deep south on the gulf of mexico. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
beacon hill;a fashionable section of boston. site of the massachusetts capital building
tennessee;a state in east central united states
orly;a suburb of paris. site of the international airport serving paris
capital of maryland;state capital of maryland. site of the united states naval academy
capital of colombia;capital and largest city of colombia. located in central colombia on a high fertile plain
venetia;a region of northeastern italy on the adriatic
mycenae;an ancient city is s greece. center of the mycenaean civilization
keystone state;a mid-atlantic state. one of the original 13 colonies
capital of missouri;capital of the state of missouri. located in central missouri on the missouri river
zurich;the largest city in switzerland. located in the northern part of the country. 'zurich is the center of the german-speaking part of switzerland'
capital of cameroon;the capital of cameroon
kingston;capital and largest city of jamaica
lanchou;the capital city of the chinese province of gansu on the yellow river
saskatchewan;one of the three prairie provinces in west central canada. 'vast fields of wheat grow on saskatchewan's prairies'
basilicata;a region of s italy (forming the instep of the italian 'boot')
kazan;an industrial city in the european part of russia
brighton;a city in sussex in s england that is a popular resort. site of the university of sussex
huntington;a city of western west virginia on the ohio river at the mouth of the kanawha
american samoa;a united states territory on the eastern part of the island of samoa
stuttgart;a city in southwestern germany famous for innovative architecture
capital of libya;one of the capital cities of libya
assam;state in northeastern india
czechoslovakia;a republic in central europe
pelican state;a state in s united states on the gulf of mexico. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
capital of uruguay;the capital and largest city of uruguay. a cosmopolitan city and one of the busiest ports in south america
grand canyon state;a state in southwestern united states. site of the grand canyon
people s democratic republic of yemen;a republic on the southwestern corner of the arabian peninsula on the indian ocean. formerly southern yemen
balkan nation;a country on the balkan peninsula
south africa;a republic at the southernmost part of africa. first european settlers were dutch (known as boers)
shire town;(british) the town or city that is the seat of government for a shire
capital of panama;the capital and largest city of panama
thailand;country of southeastern asia. 'thailand is the official name of the former siam'
amman;the capital and largest city of jordan
capital of tunisia;the capital and principal port of tunisia
outer mongolia;a landlocked socialist republic in central asia
times square;the area of manhattan around the intersection of broadway and seventh avenue. heart of the new york theater district. site of annual celebration of new year's
peiping;capital of the people's republic of china in the hopeh province in northeastern china. 2nd largest chinese city
manhattan;one of the five boroughs of new york city
winston salem;a city of north central north carolina
honolulu;the capital and largest city of hawaii. on the island of oahu
argentina;a republic in s south america. 2nd largest country in south america
capital of turkey;the capital of turkey. located in west-central turkey. formerly known as angora and is the home of angora goats
barbary coast;a part of a city that is notorious for gambling dens and brothels and saloons and riotous night life (especially the waterfront of san francisco after the gold rush of 1849). 'we'll tolerate no barbary coast in this city!'
indianapolis;the capital and largest city of indiana. site of an annual 500-mile automobile race
plymouth;a town in massachusetts founded by pilgrims in 1620
el qahira;the capital of egypt and the largest city in africa. a major port just s of the nile delta. formerly the home of the pharaohs
wilmington;the largest city in delaware
capital of the ukraine;capital and largest city of the ukraine. a major manufacturing and transportation center
chattanooga;a city in eastern tennessee
st. lucia;a country on the island of saint lucia. gained independence from great britain in 1979
turkmenia;a republic in asia east of the caspian sea and south of kazakhstan and north of iran. an asian soviet from 1925 to 1991
guayaquil;the largest city of ecuador
clarksburg;a city in northern west virginia
madras;a city of southeastern india on the bay of bengal
cameroun;a republic in west-central africa. was under french and british control until 1960
sooner state;a state in south central united states
worcester;a city in massachusetts
dutch capital;the site of the government of the netherlands and of the royal residence. seat of the international court of justice
london;the capital and largest city of england. located on the thames in southeastern england. financial and industrial and cultural center
tuscany;a region in central italy
territorial dominion;"a territorial possession controlled by a ruling state"
reservation;a district that is reserved for particular purpose
taos;an artist colony in northern new mexico
changan;a city of central china. capital of ancient chinese empire 221-206 bc
berne;the capital of switzerland. located in western switzerland
charlottetown;the provincial capital and largest city of prince edward island
capital of vermont;capital of the state of vermont. located in north central vermont
hub of the universe;state capital and largest city of massachusetts
herculaneum;ancient city. now destroyed
akaba;jordan's port. located in southwestern jordan on the gulf of aqaba
nevada;a state in the western united states
ufa;a city in the european part of russia
dublin;capital and largest city and major port of the republic of ireland
monaco;a constitutional monarchy on the french riviera
japanese capital;the capital and largest city of japan. the economic and cultural center of japan
persia;a republic in the middle east. iran was the core of the ancient persian empire and was known as persia until 1935. rich in oil
capital of japan;the capital and largest city of japan. the economic and cultural center of japan
singapore;the capital of singapore. one of the world's biggest ports
department;the territorial and administrative division of some countries (such as france)
nanjing;a city in eastern china on the yangtze river. a former capital of china. the scene of a japanese massacre in the 1930s
sunflower state;a state in midwestern united states
nigerian capital;capital and largest city and economic center of nigeria. a port located in southwestern nigeria on the gulf of guinea
mauritius;a parliamentary state on the island of mauritius
ukraine;a republic in southeastern europe. formerly a european soviet
detroit;the largest city in michigan and a major great lakes port. center of the united states automobile industry. located in southeastern michigan on the detroit river
katmandu;the capital and largest city of nepal
tadzhik;a landlocked mountainous republic in central asia north of afghanistan. formerly an asian soviet
jersy city;a city in northeastern new jersey (opposite manhattan)
padova;a city in veneto
netherlands;a constitutional monarchy in northwestern europe. half the country lies below sea level
capital of south dakota;capital of the state of south dakota. located in central south dakota on the missouri river
capital of trinidad and tobago;the capital and largest city of trinidad and tobago
palestine;a british mandate on the east coast of the mediterranean. divided between jordan and israel in 1948
aragon;a region of northeastern spain. a former kingdom that united with castile in 1479 to form spain (after the marriage of ferdinand and isabella)
capital of north dakota;capital of the state of north dakota. located in south central north dakota overlooking the missouri river
antwerpen;a port in northern belgium on the scheldt river
liechtenstein;a small principality (constitutional monarchy) in central europe located in the alps between austria and switzerland
messina;a port city in northeastern sicily on the strait of messina
dushanbe;the capital of tajikistan
turin;capital city of the piemonte region of northwestern italy
capital of kentucky;the capital of kentucky. located in northern kentucky
sheffield;a steel manufacturing city in northern england famous for its cutlery industry
samoa i sisifo;a constitutional monarchy on the western part of the islands of samoa in the s pacific
berlin;capital of germany
sweden;a scandinavian kingdom in eastern scandinavia
administrative division;a district defined for administrative purposes
mexico city;the capital and largest city of mexico is a political and cultural and commercial and industrial center. one of the world's largest cities
netherlands guiana;a republic in northeastern south america on the atlantic
capital of texas;state capital of texas and site of the university of texas
angolan capital;the capital and largest city of angola. achieved independence from portugal in 1976 and has since been the scene of civil war
new hebrides;an island republic in melanesia. independent since 1980
gansu;a province in north-central china. formerly part of the silk road to turkistan and india and persia
wembly;a southeastern part of greater london that is the site of the english national soccer stadium
the hague;the site of the government of the netherlands and of the royal residence. seat of the international court of justice
usumbura;the capital and largest city of burundi. 'usumbura was renamed bujumbura when burundi became independent in 1962'
bahama islands;island country in the atlantic east of florida and cuba. a popular winter resort
capital of latvia;the capital and largest city of latvia
kirghizia;a landlocked republic in west central asia bordering on northwestern china. formerly an asian soviet
columbia;capital and largest city in south carolina. located in central south carolina
munich;the capital and largest city of bavaria in southeastern germany
capital of michigan;capital of the state of michigan. located in s michigan on the grand river
abu dhabi;a city of eastern arabia and capital of the united arab emirates
waterfront;the area of a city (such as a harbor or dockyard) alongside a body of water
st. john s;a port and provincial capital of newfoundland
motown;the largest city in michigan and a major great lakes port. center of the united states automobile industry. located in southeastern michigan on the detroit river
capital of south korea;the capital and largest city of south korea. located in northwestern south korea
oregon;a state in northwestern united states on the pacific
nebraska;a midwestern state on the great plains
roma;capital and largest city of italy. on the tiber. seat of the roman catholic church. formerly the capital of the roman republic and the roman empire
montevideo;the capital and largest city of uruguay. a cosmopolitan city and one of the busiest ports in south america
tacoma;a city of west central washington on an arm of puget sound south of seattle
balkan state;a country on the balkan peninsula
managua;the capital and largest city of managua
tangier;a city of northern morocco at the west end of the strait of gibraltar. 'the first tangerines were shipped from tangier to europe in 1841'
newport;a resort city in southeastern rhode island. known for the summer homes of millionaires. important yachting center
magyarorszag;a republic in central europe
ottawa;the capital of canada (located in southeastern ontario across the ottawa river from quebec)
oesterreich;a mountainous republic in central europe. under the hapsburgs (1278-1918) austria maintained control of the holy roman empire and was a leader in european politics until the 19th century
belgique;a monarchy in northwestern europe. headquarters for the european common market and for the north atlantic treaty organization
land;the territory occupied by a nation. 'he returned to the land of his birth'. 'he visited several european countries'
naha city;the chief city in the syukyu islands
republic of ireland;a republic occupying most of the island of ireland
magnolia state;a state in the deep south on the gulf of mexico. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
genoa;a seaport in northwestern italy. provincial capital of liguria
oklahoma city;capital and largest city of oklahoma
capital of vietnam;the capital city of vietnam. located in north vietnam
enterprise zone;a city district where development receives special tax advantages
kirghiz;a landlocked republic in west central asia bordering on northwestern china. formerly an asian soviet
oakland;a city in western california on san francisco bay opposite san francisco
french polynesia;a french overseas territory in the s pacific
urban center;a large and densely populated urban area. may include several independent administrative districts. 'ancient troy was a great city'
iran;a republic in the middle east. iran was the core of the ancient persian empire and was known as persia until 1935. rich in oil
iranian capital;the capital and largest city of iran. located in northern iran
tadzhikistan;a landlocked mountainous republic in central asia north of afghanistan. formerly an asian soviet
gold coast;a republic in west africa on the gulf of guinea. 'ghana was colonized as the gold coast by the british'
danish capital;the capital and largest city of denmark. sometimes called 'the paris of the north'
state capital;the capital city of a united states state
dubrovnik;a port city in southwestern croatia on the adriatic. a popular tourist center
gem state;a state in the rocky mountains
minsk;the capital of belarus and of the commonwealth of independent states
kingdom;a country with a king as head of state
tuvalu;an island country on the tuvalu islands. formerly part of the british colony of gilbert and ellice islands until it withdrew in 1075 and became independent in 1978
sunshine state;a state in southeastern united states between the atlantic and the gulf of mexico. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
asuncion;the capital and chief port of paraguay
capital of azerbaijan;the capital of azerbaijan
vilno;the capital and largest city of lithuania. located in southeastern lithuania
kharkov;a city in northeastern ukraine. former capital of the ukraine
capital of bangladesh;the capital and largest city of bangladesh
venice;the provincial capital of veneto. built on 118 islands within a lagoon in the gulf of venice which is an arm of the adriatic. has canals instead of streets. one of italy's major ports and a famous tourist attraction
united arab emirates;a federation of 7 arab emirates. rich in oil reserves
braunschweig;a city in central germany
regina;the provincial capital and largest city of saskatchewan
patavium;a city in veneto
luxembourg city;the capital and largest city of luxembourg
guatemala city;the capital and largest city of guatemala
pittsburgh;a city in southwestern pennsylvania at the beginning of the ohio river. site of carnegie-mellon university and the university of pittsburgh
utica;an ancient city on the north coast of africa (northwest of carthage). destroyed by arabs around 700 ad
tegu;a city in southeastern south korea
tirana;the capital and largest city of albania
kazak;a landlocked republic south of russia and northeast of the caspian sea. the original turkic-speaking inhabitants were overrun by mongols in the 13th century. an asian soviet from 1936 to 1991
newcastle upon tyne;a port in northeastern england on the river tyne. a center for coal exports (giving rise to the expression 'carry coals to newcastle' meaning to do something unnecessary)
camelot;(arthurian legends) the capital of king arthur's kingdom. according to the legend, truth and goodness and beauty reigned there
hanoi;the capital city of vietnam. located in north vietnam
assouan;an ancient city on the nile in egypt. site of the aswan high dam
bandung;a city in indonesia. located on western java (southeast of jakarta). a resort known for its climate
capital of connecticut;the state capital of connecticut. located in central connecticut on the connecticut river. a center of the insurance business
azerbajdzhan;a landlocked republic in southwestern asia. formerly an asian soviet
gopher state;a midwestern state
tangiers;a city of northern morocco at the west end of the strait of gibraltar. 'the first tangerines were shipped from tangier to europe in 1841'
shanghai;the largest city of china. located in the east on the pacific. one of the largest ports in the world
jefferson city;capital of the state of missouri. located in central missouri on the missouri river
little rhody;a state in new england. one of the original 13 colonies. the smallest state
turkish capital;the capital of turkey. located in west-central turkey. formerly known as angora and is the home of angora goats
coventry;an industrial city in central england. devastated by air raids during world war ii. remembered as the home of lady godiva in the 11th century
nidaros;a port in central norway on trondheim fjord
capital of morocco;the capital of morocco. located in the northwestern on the atlantic coast
capital of papua new guinea;the capital and largest city of papua new guinea
calabria;a region of s italy (forming the toe of the italian 'boot')
lund;a city in southeastern sweden
taipei;the capital of nationalist china. located in northern taiwan
tunisia;a republic in northwestern africa on the mediterranean. 'southern tunisia is mostly desert'
bahamas;island country in the atlantic east of florida and cuba. a popular winter resort
capital of poland;the capital and largest city of poland. located in central poland
east pakistan;a moslem republic in southern asia bordered by india to the north and west and east and the bay of bengal to the south. formerly part of india and then part of pakistan. it achieved independence in 1971
marche;a region in central italy
ljubljana;the capital of slovenia
melbourne;the capital of victoria state and 2nd largest australian city. a financial and commercial center
el salvador;a republic on the pacific coast of central america
frankfurt;a german city. an industrial and commercial and financial center
vila;capital of vanuatu
luoyang;a city in east central china. the capital of ancient china during several dynasties
natal;a region of eastern south africa on the indian ocean
faroes;a self-governing colony of denmark on the faroe islands
tegucigalpa;the capital and largest city of honduras
cairo;the capital of egypt and the largest city in africa. a major port just s of the nile delta. formerly the home of the pharaohs
north carolina;a state in southeastern united states. one of the original 13 colonies
victoria;the capital of seychelles
dresden;a city in southeastern germany on the elbe river
szechwan;a populous province of south central china
mongolian people s republic;a landlocked socialist republic in central asia
t ien ching;a major industrial center in northeastern china on the grand canal near the yellow sea. 3rd largest city in china
birmingham;the largest city in alabama. located in northeastern alabama
denver;the state capital and largest city of colorado. located in central colorado on the south platte river
nice;a city in southeastern france on the mediterranean. the leading resort on the french riviera
england;a division of the united kingdom
versailles;a city in north central france near paris. site of the palace of versailles that was built by louis xiv in the 17th century
scotland;one of the four countries that make up the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland. located on the northern part of the island of great britain. famous for bagpipes and plaids and kilts
poland;a republic in central europe. the invasion of poland by germany in 1939 started world war ii
saint augustine;a resort in northeastern florida. the oldest city in the united states
mashhad;the holy city of shiite muslims. located in northeastern iran
bangui;the capital and largest city of the central africa republic
chungking;a city in south-central china on the yangtze river. a commercial center for western china
giza;an ancient egyptian city on the west bank of the nile opposite cairo. site of three great pyramids and the sphinx
bronx;a borough of new york city
stratford upon avon;a town in central england on the river avon. birthplace (and burial place) of william shakespeare
aquila degli abruzzi;the provincial capital of the abruzzi region in central italy
capital of romania;capital and largest city of romania
trondheim;a port in central norway on trondheim fjord
schweiz;a federal republic in central europe
kentucky;a state in east central united states. one of the confederate states during the american civil war. famous for breeding race horses
constantinople;the largest city and former capital of turkey. built on the site of ancient byzantium. seat of the eastern orthodox church
capital of kenya;the capital and largest city of kenya. a center for tourist safaris
cuban capital;capital and largest city of cuba. located in western cuba. one of the oldest cities in the americas
kuwait;a seaport on the persian gulf and capital of kuwait
tulsa;a major city of northeastern oklahoma on the arkansas river
city of light;the capital and largest city of france. and international center of culture and commerce
western samoa;a constitutional monarchy on the western part of the islands of samoa in the s pacific
port louis;capital and chief port of mauritius. located on the northwestern coast of the island
capital of oman;a port (on the gulf of oman) and capital of the sultanate of oman
leopoldville;the capital of zaire on the congo river opposite brazzaville
british guiana;a republic in northeastern south america
georgia;a republic in asia minor on the black sea separated from russia by the caucasus mountains. a provisional military government. formerly an asian soviet
freetown;the capital and largest city of sierra leone
den haag;the site of the government of the netherlands and of the royal residence. seat of the international court of justice
molotov;a city in the european part of russia
kiribati;an island republic in the west central pacific just s of the equator
norge;a constitutional monarchy in northern europe
capital of laos;the capital and largest city of laos
sana;the capital and largest city of the yemen arab republic
miami;a city and resort in southeastern florida on biscayne bay. the best known city in florida
georgia;a state in southeastern united states. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
andorra;a small republic in the eastern pyrenees between spain and france
karachi;the largest city in pakistan. located in southeastern pakistan. an industrial center and seaport on the arabian sea. former capital of pakistan
capital of czechoslovakia;capital and largest city of czechoslovakia
utrecht;a city in the central netherlands
slave state;any of the southern states in which slavery was legal prior to the civil war
la paz;the seat of bolivia's government. sucre is the nominal capital
abidjan;the capital and largest city of the ivory coast
capital of libya;the largest city one of the capital cities of libya. founded by the phoenicians in the 7th century bc
umbria;a mountainous region in central italy
darwin;provincial capital of the northern territory of australia
united arab republic;a republic in northeastern africa. site of an ancient civilization that flourished from 2600 to 30 bc
ceylon;a republic on an the island of ceylon. 'sri lanka became independent of england in 1948'
salem;capital of the state of oregon in the northwestern part of the state
old line state;a mid-atlantic state. one of the original 13 colonies
teheran;the capital and largest city of iran. located in northern iran
capital of idaho;the capital and largest city of idaho
almaty;the capital of kazakstan
wheeling;a city in the northern panhandle of west virginia on the ohio river
dutch guiana;a republic in northeastern south america on the atlantic
soviet russia;formerly the largest soviet socialist republic in the ussr occupying eastern europe and northern asia
capital of nepal;the capital and largest city of nepal
leicester;an industrial city on the river soar in leicestershire in central england. built on the site of a roman settlement
des moines;the capital and largest city in iowa
perth;the state capital of western australia
capital of mississippi;capital of the state of mississippi on the pearl river
ghost town;a deserted town (especially in western united states)
capital of the bahamas;the capital of the bahamas
capital of guinea bissau;the capital of guinea-bissau
bombay;a city in western india just off the coast of the arabian sea. india's 2nd largest city (after calcutta). has the only natural deep-water harbor in western india
sao tome e principe;island nation in the south atlantic off the west coast of africa
luxemburg;a grand duchy (a constitutional monarchy) in northwestern europe between france and belgium and germany. an international financial center
angola;a republic in southwestern africa on the atlantic coast
nurnberg;a city in southeastern germany. site of allied trials of nazi war criminals (1945-46)
krakau;an industrial city in s poland on the vistula
capital of north carolina;capital of the state of north carolina. located in the east central part of the north carolina
aden;capital and largest city and chief port of yemen. located on the gulf of aden. its strategic location have made it a major trading center of s arabia since ancient times
cornwall;a hilly county in southwestern england
province;the territory occupied by one of the constituent administrative districts of a nation. 'his state is in the deep south'
treasure state;a state in northwestern united states on the canadian border
capital of ethiopia;the capital of ethiopia and the country's largest city. located in central ethiopia
rome;capital and largest city of italy. on the tiber. seat of the roman catholic church. formerly the capital of the roman republic and the roman empire
brisbane;capital and largest city of queensland state. located in the southeastern corner of queensland on the pacific. settled by british as a penal colony. 3rd largest city in australia
monrovia;the capital and chief port and largest city of liberia
capital of the irish republic;capital and largest city and major port of the republic of ireland
ethiopia;ethiopia is a republic in northeastern africa formerly called abyssinia
gomorrah;(old testament) an ancient city near the dead sea that (along with sodom) was destroyed by god for the vice and depravity of its inhabitants
the bronx;a borough of new york city
leipzig;a city in southeastern germany famous for fairs. formerly a music and publishing center
tel aviv jaffa;the largest city and financial center of israel. located in western israel on the mediterranean
uk;a kingdom divided into england and scotland and wales and northern ireland
uzbek;a landlocked republic in west central asia. formerly an asian soviet
capital of new york;state capital of new york. located in eastern new york state on the west bank of the hudson river
augusta;the capital of the state of maine
memphis;an ancient city of egypt (s of cairo)
burma;a mountainous republic in southeastern asia on the bay of bengal. 'much opium is grown in myanmar'
hell s half acre;a district in manhattan formerly noted for its slums and vice
weimar;a german city near leipzig. scene of the adoption in 1919 of the constitution of the weimar republic that lasted until 1933
capital of massachusetts;state capital and largest city of massachusetts
capital of utah;the capital and largest city of utah. located near the great salt lake in north central utah. world capital of the mormon church
indiana;a state in midwestern united states
gorki;an industrial city in the european part of russia
albuquerque;the largest city in new mexico. located in central new mexico on the rio grande river
belgian congo;a republic in central africa. formerly under belgian control
tibet;an asian country under the control of china. located in the himalayas
victoria;capital of the canadian province of british columbia
south korea;a republic in the s half of the korean peninsula. established in 1948
edirne;a city in northwestern turkey. a thracian town that was rebuilt and renamed by the roman emperor hadrian
sierra leone;a republic in west africa
great lakes state;a midwestern state in north central united states in the great lakes region
downtown;the commercial center of a town or city
san jose;the capital and largest city of costa rica
evergreen state;a state in northwestern united states on the pacific
palmetto state;a state in the deep south. one of the original 13 colonies
alaska;a state in northwestern north america. the 49th state admitted to the union. 'alaska is the largest state in the united states'
istanbul;the largest city and former capital of turkey. built on the site of ancient byzantium. seat of the eastern orthodox church
saratoga springs;a town in eastern new york state famed for its spa and its horse racing
equality state;a state in the western united states. mountainous in the west and north with the great plains in the east
gdansk;a city of northern poland near the mouth of the vistula
nairobi;the capital and largest city of kenya. a center for tourist safaris
lower saxony;a state in northwestern germany
surinam;a republic in northeastern south america on the atlantic
sao thome e principe;island nation in the south atlantic off the west coast of africa
capital of mongolia;the capital and largest city of mongolia
washington;a state in northwestern united states on the pacific
tajik;a landlocked mountainous republic in central asia north of afghanistan. formerly an asian soviet
orlando;a city in central florida
capital of alabama;the state capital of alabama
capital of nevada;capital of the state of nevada. located in western nevada
 s gravenhage;the site of the government of the netherlands and of the royal residence. seat of the international court of justice
soweto;a large collection of african townships southwest of johannesburg in south africa. inhabited solely by black africans
nauru;an island republic on nauru island. phosphate exports support the economy
capital of california;a city in north central california. capital of california
sapporo;a japanese city on western hokkaido
belize;a country of central america on the caribbean. formerly under british control
capital of suriname;the capital and largest city and major port of surinam
bavaria;a state in southwestern germany famous for its beer. bmw stands for bavarian motor works
valle d aosta;a region in northwestern italy
trentino alto adige;a region of northeastern italy
maryland;a mid-atlantic state. one of the original 13 colonies
austrian capital;the capital and largest city of austria. located on the danube in northeastern austria. was the home of beethoven and brahms and hayden and mozart and schubert and strauss
samarcand;tamerlane's capital in the 14th century
kuwait;an arab kingdom in asia on the northwestern coast of the persian gulf. a major source of petroleum
sioux falls;largest city in south dakota. located in southeastern south dakota
capital of spain;the capital and largest city of spain. home of the museo del prado (an outstanding art museum)
indonesian borneo;the part of indonesia on the s of the island of borneo
coney island;a section of brooklyn on the atlantic. known as an amusement center
swansea;a port city in s wales on an inlet of the bristol channel
sacramento;a city in north central california. capital of california
roanoke;a city in southwestern virginia
administrative district;a district defined for administrative purposes
quebec city;the french-speaking capital of the province of quebec. situated on the saint lawrence river
niagara falls;a city in western new york state at the falls of the niagara river. tourist attraction and honeymoon resort
san marino;the capital and only city of san marino
san jose;a city in western california southeast of san francisco. a center for computer and electronics industries
philadelphia;the largest city in pennsylvania. located in the southeastern part of the state on the delaware river. site of independence hall where the declaration of independence and the constitution were signed. site of the university of pennsylvania
ankara;the capital of turkey. located in west-central turkey. formerly known as angora and is the home of angora goats
pakistan;a moslem republic in s asia. formerly part of india
sanaa;the capital and largest city of the yemen arab republic
antofagasta;a port city on the pacific in northern chile
french congo;a republic in west-central africa. achieved independence from france in 1960
french oceania;a french overseas territory in the s pacific
hashemite kingdom of jordan;an arab kingdom in southwestern asia on the red sea
helsingfors;the capital and largest city of finland. located in s finland. a major port and commercial and cultural center
boise;the capital and largest city of idaho
cordova;a city in southern spain. center of moorish culture
porto novo;the capital of benin
tasmania;an australian state on the island of tasmania
wyoming;a state in the western united states. mountainous in the west and north with the great plains in the east
commonwealth of australia;a nation occupying the whole of the australian continent. aboriginal tribes are thought to have migrated from southeastern asia 20,000 years ago. first europeans were british convicts sent there as a penal colony
israel;jewish republic in southwestern asia at eastern end of mediterranean. formerly part of palestine
bishopric;the territorial jurisdiction of a bishop
roumania;a balkan republic in southeastern europe
west berlin;the part of berlin under united states and british and french control until 1989
asian country;countries occupying the asian continent
islamabad;the capital of pakistan in the north on a plateau. the site was chosen in 1959
ontario;a prosperous and industrialized province in central canada
canada;a nation in northern north america. the french were the first europeans to settle in mainland canada. 'the border between the united states and canada is the longest unguarded border in the world'
al magrib;a kingdom (constitutional monarchy) in northwestern africa
genova;a seaport in northwestern italy. provincial capital of liguria
capital of singapore;the capital of singapore. one of the world's biggest ports
ellas;a republic in southeastern europe on the southern part of the balkan peninsula. known for grapes and olives and olive oil
trusteeship;a dependent country. administered by a country under the supervision of the united nations
moukden;a city in northeastern china
leicestershire;a largely agricultural county in central england
niamey;the capital and largest city of niger
brasilia;the capital of brazil. a city built on the central plateau and inaugurated in 1960
central american country;countries occupying central america. except for belize and costa rica these countries are characterized by low per capita income and unstable governments
chernobyl;a city in north central ukraine. site of a major disaster at a nuclear power plant (16 april 1986)
albanian capital;the capital and largest city of albania
capital of georgia;the capital and largest city of georgia on the kura river
morocco;a kingdom (constitutional monarchy) in northwestern africa
san juan;the capital and largest city of puerto rico
beehive state;a state in the western united states. settled in 1847 by mormons led by brigham young
providence;the capital and largest city of rhode island. located in northeastern rhode island on narragansett bay. site of brown university
capital of benin;the capital of benin
bologna;the capital of emilia-romagna. located in northern italy east of the apennines
german capital;capital of germany
salvadoran capital;the capital and largest city of el salvador. has suffered from recurrent earthquakes
yemen arab republic;a republic on the southwestern corner of the arabian peninsula on the red sea. formerly north yemen
dhaka;the capital and largest city of bangladesh
capital of nicaragua;the capital and largest city of managua
village;a mainly residential district of manhattan. 'the village' became a home for many writers and artists in the 20th century
provincial capital;the capital city of a province
costa rica;a republic in central america. one of the most politically stable countries in latin america
capital of indiana;the capital and largest city of indiana. site of an annual 500-mile automobile race
reno;a city in western nevada at the foot of the sierra nevada mountains. known for gambling casinos and easy divorce and remarriage
san francisco;a port in western california. has one of the world's finest harbors. site of the golden gate bridge
juneau;the state capital of alaska
capital of nebraska;capital of the state of nebraska. located in southeastern nebraska. site of the university of nebraska
bluegrass state;a state in east central united states. one of the confederate states during the american civil war. famous for breeding race horses
yemen;a republic on the southwestern corner of the arabian peninsula on the indian ocean. formerly southern yemen
kishinev;the capital of moldova
republic of the philippines;a republic on the philippine islands
holland;a constitutional monarchy in northwestern europe. half the country lies below sea level
saint john s;a port and provincial capital of newfoundland
roseau;the capital and largest city of dominica
belfast;capital and largest city of northern ireland. the center of irish protestantism
suomi;republic in northern europe
mecca;a city in western saudi arabia. as the birthplace of mohammed it is the holiest city of islam
azerbaijani republic;a landlocked republic in southwestern asia. formerly an asian soviet
archbishopric;the territorial jurisdiction of an archbishop
winnipeg;winnipeg is the capital and largest city of manitoba. located in s manitoba. known for severe winters
fredericton;the provincial capital of new brunswick
tonga;a monarchy on a polynesian archipelago
capital of wyoming;the capital and largest city of wyoming. located in the southeastern corner of the state
san marino;the smallest republic in the world. the oldest independent country in europe. located in the apennines and completely surrounded by italy
stalingrad;a city in the european part of russia on the volga. site of german defeat in world war ii in the winter of 1942-43
capital of liechtenstein;the capital and largest city of liechtenstein
syracuse;a city in southeastern sicily that was founded by corinthians in the 8th century bc
municipality;an urban district having corporate status and powers of self-government
shantytown;a city district inhabited by people living in huts and shanties
lyon;a city in east-central france on the rhone river. a principal producer of silk and rayon
centennial state;a state in west central united states in the rocky mountains
beaver state;a state in northwestern united states on the pacific
bathurst;the capital of gambia
bern;the capital of switzerland. located in western switzerland
community;a district where people live. occupied primarily by private residences
east malaysia;the part of malaysia that is on the island of borneo
italian region;italy is divided into 20 regions for administrative purposes
capital of new hampshire;capital of the state of new hampshire. located in south central new hampshire on the merrimack river
county;a territorial division for local government
port moresby;the capital and largest city of papua new guinea
the argentine;a republic in s south america. 2nd largest country in south america
seychelles;a republic on the seychelles islands
old dominion state;a state in the eastern united states. one of the original 13 colonies. one of the confederate states in the american civil war
corinth;the modern city is near the cite of the ancient city that was 2nd only to athens
ward;a district into which a city or town is divided for the purpose of administration and elections
capital of guinea;a port and the capital of guinea
capital of gabon;the capital of gabon
capital of iran;the capital and largest city of iran. located in northern iran
portland;largest city in oregon. located in northwestern oregon
meshed;the holy city of shiite muslims. located in northeastern iran
sitsang;an asian country under the control of china. located in the himalayas
beantown;state capital and largest city of massachusetts
vaduz;the capital and largest city of liechtenstein
fengtien;a city in northeastern china
united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland;a kingdom divided into england and scotland and wales and northern ireland
bennington;a city in southwestern vermont
capital of estonia;the capital and largest city of estonia
congo;a republic in west-central africa. achieved independence from france in 1960
capital of louisiana;capital of louisiana
cambodian capital;the capital and largest city of kampuchea
vilna;the capital and largest city of lithuania. located in southeastern lithuania
fresno;a city in south central california. center of an important agricultural area
ann arbor;a city in s michigan near detroit. site of the university of michigan
milwaukee;largest city of wisconsin. located in southeastern wisconsin on lake michigan. known for its breweries
camellia state;a state in the southeastern united states on the gulf of mexico. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
lombardia;a region of north central italy bordering switzerland
arkansas;a state in south central united states. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
tunis;the capital and principal port of tunisia
new brunswick;a province in southeastern canada
mobile;a port in southwestern alabama on mobile bay
quito;the capital of ecuador
marseilles;a city in southeastern france on the mediterranean. the 2nd largest french city and an important seaport
hayastan;a republic in southwestern asia. formerly an asian soviet. throughout 2500 years the armenian people have been invaded and oppressed by their neighbors
suburban area;a residential district located on the outskirts of a city
newcastle;a port in northeastern england on the river tyne. a center for coal exports (giving rise to the expression 'carry coals to newcastle' meaning to do something unnecessary)
stabroek;the capital and largest city of guyana. 'the city was called stabroek by the dutch but was renamed georgetown by the british in 1812'
saint john;a port in eastern canada. the largest city in new brunswick
japan;a constitutional monarchy occupying a string of islands east of asia. a world leader in electronics and automobile manufacture and ship building
swiss confederation;a federal republic in central europe
new york;a mid-atlantic state. one of the original 13 colonies
everglade state;a state in southeastern united states between the atlantic and the gulf of mexico. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
australia;a nation occupying the whole of the australian continent. aboriginal tribes are thought to have migrated from southeastern asia 20,000 years ago. first europeans were british convicts sent there as a penal colony
reykjavik;the capital and largest city of iceland
newfoundland;a canadian province on the island of newfoundland. became canada's 10th province in 1949
capital of the netherlands;an industrial center and the nominal capital of the netherlands. center of the diamond-cutting industry. seat of an important stock exchange. known for its canals and the rijksmuseum art museum
yangon;the capital and largest city of myanmar. located in the south on the rangoon river near its outlet in the irrawaddy river delta
bissau;the capital of guinea-bissau
montana;a state in northwestern united states on the canadian border
west malaysia;the region of malaysia on the malay peninsula
montreal;a city in southern quebec province on the saint lawrence river. the largest city in quebec and 2nd largest in canada. the 2nd largest french-speaking city in the world
capital of jamaica;capital and largest city of jamaica
capital of peru;capital and largest city and economic center of peru. located in western peru. capital of the spanish empire in the new world until the 19th century
garden state;a mid-atlantic state on the atlantic. one of the original 13 colonies
capital of uzbek;the capital of uzbekistan
new haven;a city in southwestern connecticut. site of yale university
santa fe;capital of the state of new mexico. located in north central new mexico
benin;formerly part of french west africa
qatar;an arab country on the peninsula of qatar
tiflis;the capital and largest city of georgia on the kura river
mozambique;a republic in southeastern africa on the indian ocean. became independent of portugal in 1975
preserve;a reservation where animals are protected
gabon;a republic in west central africa
capital of the malagasy republic;the capital and largest city of the malagasy republic
peach state;a state in southeastern united states. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
turf;(informal) range of jurisdiction or influence: 'a bureaucracy...chiefly concerned with turf...and protecting the retirement system'
nuernberg;a city in southeastern germany. site of allied trials of nazi war criminals (1945-46)
eire;a republic occupying most of the island of ireland
north korea;a communist country in the northern half of the korean peninsula. established in 1948
nizhni novgorod;an industrial city in the european part of russia
frankfurt on the main;a german city. an industrial and commercial and financial center
colorado;a state in west central united states in the rocky mountains
apia;the capital of western samoa
las vegas;largest city in nevada. located in southeastern nevada. famous for entertainment and gambling
zion;jewish republic in southwestern asia at eastern end of mediterranean. formerly part of palestine
akron;a city in northeastern ohio. the heart of the united states rubber industry
french capital;the capital and largest city of france. and international center of culture and commerce
djibouti;the capital and largest city of djibouti
prairie state;a midwest state in north-central united states
brussels;the capital and largest city of belgium. seat of the north atlantic treaty organization
cedar rapids;a city in eastern iowa
lassa;the sacred city of lamaism. known as the forbidden city for its former inaccessibility and hostility to strangers
american state;one of the 50 states of the united states
tirol;a picturesque mountainous province of western austria
city of bridges;a city in northwestern belgium in west flanders province. connected by canal to the north sea. the old city is a popular tourist attraction
capital of tanzania;the capital and second largest city of tanzania
district of columbia;the district occupied entirely by the city of washington
capital of alaska;the state capital of alaska
turkmenistan;a republic in asia east of the caspian sea and south of kazakhstan and north of iran. an asian soviet from 1925 to 1991
development;a district that has been developed to serve some purpose. 'such land is practical for small park developments'
hamilton;a city in southeastern ontario at the west end of lake ontario
tripoli;the largest city one of the capital cities of libya. founded by the phoenicians in the 7th century bc
prag;capital and largest city of czechoslovakia
hamilton;the capital of bermuda
alexandria;the chief port of egypt. located where the nile river empties into the mediterranean sea. founded by alexander the great. the capital of ancient egypt
italy;a republic in s europe. was the core of the roman republic and the roman empire between the 4th century bc and the 5th century ad
hartford;the state capital of connecticut. located in central connecticut on the connecticut river. a center of the insurance business
sakartvelo;a republic in asia minor on the black sea separated from russia by the caucasus mountains. a provisional military government. formerly an asian soviet
gorky;an industrial city in the european part of russia
billings;the largest city in montana. located in s montana on the yellowstone river
bujumbura;the capital and largest city of burundi. 'usumbura was renamed bujumbura when burundi became independent in 1962'
capital of belgium;the capital and largest city of belgium. seat of the north atlantic treaty organization
maroc;a kingdom (constitutional monarchy) in northwestern africa
tokio;the capital and largest city of japan. the economic and cultural center of japan
adrianople;a city in northwestern turkey. a thracian town that was rebuilt and renamed by the roman emperor hadrian
santo domingo;the capital and largest city of the dominican republic
xian;a city of central china. capital of ancient chinese empire 221-206 bc
business district;the commercial center of a town or city
bangkok;the capital and largest city of thailand. a leading city in southeastern asia. noted for buddhist architecture
st. augustine;a resort in northeastern florida. the oldest city in the united states
california;a state in the western united states on the pacific. the 3rd largest state. known for earthquakes
selma;a city in central alabama on the alabama river. in 1965 it was the center of a drive to register black voters
fargo;largest city in north dakota. located in eastern north dakota on the red river
western australia;a state containing the western third of australia
capital of montana;capital of the state of montana. located in western montana
country;the territory occupied by a nation. 'he returned to the land of his birth'. 'he visited several european countries'
north american nation;a country on the north american continent
st. christopher nevis;a country on several of the leeward islands. located east southeast of puerto rico
suva;the capital and largest city of fiji (on viti levu island)
mexican capital;the capital and largest city of mexico is a political and cultural and commercial and industrial center. one of the world's largest cities
sardinia;the italian region on the island of sardinia. the kingdom of sardinia was the nucleus for uniting italy during the 19th century
greater london;the capital and largest city of england. located on the thames in southeastern england. financial and industrial and cultural center
uzbekiston;a landlocked republic in west central asia. formerly an asian soviet
geneve;a city in southwestern switzerland at the western end of lake geneva. the palace of nations originally housed the league of nations and is now the european headquarters for the united nations
lodz;a large city of central poland
lome;capital and largest city of togo. located in the s on the gulf of guinea
european country;countries occupying the european continent
capital of sweden;the capital and largest city of sweden. located in s sweden on the baltic. 'the nobel prize is awarded in stockholm'
russia;formerly the largest soviet socialist republic in the ussr occupying eastern europe and northern asia
cuidad de mexico;the capital and largest city of mexico is a political and cultural and commercial and industrial center. one of the world's largest cities
georgetown;the capital and largest city of guyana. 'the city was called stabroek by the dutch but was renamed georgetown by the british in 1812'
bharat;a republic in s asia. 2nd most populous country in the world
gateway to the west;the largest city in missouri. was an important staging area for wagon trains westward in the 19th century
saint vincent and the grenadines;an island country in the central windward islands
capital of botswana;capital and largest city of botswana
jamaica;a country on the island of jamaica. became independent of england in 1962. much poverty. the major industry is tourism
capital of zaire;the capital of zaire on the congo river opposite brazzaville
tar heel state;a state in southeastern united states. one of the original 13 colonies
bloemfontein;the seat of the supreme court
canberra;the capital of australia. located in southeastern australia
saint christopher nevis;a country on several of the leeward islands. located east southeast of puerto rico
the gambia;a republic in west africa
south dakota;a state in north central united states
cannes;a port and resort city on the french riviera. site of an annual film festival
ussr;a former communist country in eastern europe and northern asia. established in 1922. included russia and 14 other soviet socialist republics (ukraine and byelorussia an others). officially dissolved 31 december 1991
nassau;the capital of the bahamas
capital of western samoa;the capital of western samoa
stamboul;the largest city and former capital of turkey. built on the site of ancient byzantium. seat of the eastern orthodox church
national capital;the capital city of a nation
papua new guinea;a parliamentary democracy on the eastern half of the island of new guinea
heart of dixie;a state in the southeastern united states on the gulf of mexico. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
lusaka;the capital and largest city of zambia
jugoslavia;a balkan socialist republic
capital of portugal;capital and largest city and economic and cultural center of portugal. a major port in western portugal on tagus river where it broadens and empties into the atlantic
fort worth;a city in northern texas
montgomery;the state capital of alabama
cardiff;the capital and largest city of wales
seattle;largest city in washington. located in west central washington. a major port of entry
joppa;a port in western israel on the mediterranean. incorporated into tel aviv in 1950
sakkara;a town in northern egypt. site of the oldest egyptian pyramids (the step pyramid)
conakry;a port and the capital of guinea
bale;a city in northwestern switzerland
san antonio;a city of south central texas. site of the alamo
australian state;one of the states constituting australia
yugoslavia;a balkan socialist republic
gothenburg;a port in southwestern sweden. second largest city in sweden
maputo;the capital and largest city of mozambique
new york city;the largest city in new york state. located in southeastern new york at the mouth of the hudson river. a major financial and cultural center
praia;the capital of cape verde on sao tiago island
capital of armenia;capital of armenia
mali;a landlocked republic in western africa
show me state;a midwestern state in central united states
capital of congo;the capital and largest city of the republic of congo
balkans;a country on the balkan peninsula
federal district;a district set apart as the seat of government of a federation
geneva;a city in southwestern switzerland at the western end of lake geneva. the palace of nations originally housed the league of nations and is now the european headquarters for the united nations
deutschland;a republic in north-central europe
brazilian capital;the capital of brazil. a city built on the central plateau and inaugurated in 1960
granite state;a state in new england. one of the original 13 colonies
capital of oregon;capital of the state of oregon in the northwestern part of the state
grenada;an island state in the west indies. an independent state within the british commonwealth
capital of australia;the capital of australia. located in southeastern australia
petrograd;a city in the european part of russia. 2nd largest russian city. located at the head of the gulf of finland on the neva river. former capital of russia
kampuchea;a nation in asia. was part of french-ruled indochina until 1946
zagreb;the capital of croatia
lyons;a city in east-central france on the rhone river. a principal producer of silk and rayon
sabah;a region of malaysia in northeastern borneo
bergen;a port in southwestern norway
monte carlo;a town and popular resort in the principality of monaco. world-famous for its gambling casino
chisinau;the capital of moldova
tientsin;a major industrial center in northeastern china on the grand canal near the yellow sea. 3rd largest city in china
territory;"a territorial possession controlled by a ruling state"
hamburg;a city in northern germany on the elbe river
canton;a small administrative division of a country
el beda;the capital and chief port of qatar
township;an administrative division of a county. 'the town is responsible for snow removal'
pisa;a city in tuscany. site of the famous leaning tower
libya;a republic in north africa on the mediterranean. consists almost entirely of desert. a major exporter of petroleum
palo alto;a university town in california
molise;a region of south central italy
sri lanka;a republic on an the island of ceylon. 'sri lanka became independent of england in 1948'
romania;a balkan republic in southeastern europe
florida;a state in southeastern united states between the atlantic and the gulf of mexico. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
cornhusker state;a midwestern state on the great plains
haifa;a port in northwestern israel on the bay of acre
new mexico;a state in southwestern united states on the mexican border
haitian capital;the capital and largest city of haiti
new zealand;an independent country within the british commonwealth occupying two main islands and a number of minor islands in the southeastern pacific. known for sheep and spectacular scenery
west yorkshire;a metropolitan county in northern england
vancouver;an island city in southwestern british columbia on an arm of the pacific ocean. canada's chief pacific port and third largest city
hawaii;a state in the united states in the central pacific on the hawaiian islands
oaxaca;a city of southeastern mexico. the provincial capital of the state of oaxaca. inhabited chiefly by indians
nippon;a constitutional monarchy occupying a string of islands east of asia. a world leader in electronics and automobile manufacture and ship building
raleigh;capital of the state of north carolina. located in the east central part of the north carolina
richmond;capital of the state of virginia located in the east central part of the state. was capital of the confederacy during the american civil war
valletta;the capital of malta. located on the northeastern coast of the island
valetta;the capital of malta. located on the northeastern coast of the island
saudi arabia;a kingdom occupying most of the arabian peninsula. vast oil reserves
ecuador;a republic in western south america. the landscape is dominated by the andes
bulgaria;a country in eastern part of the balkan peninsula
green mountain state;a state in new england
kazakstan;a landlocked republic south of russia and northeast of the caspian sea. the original turkic-speaking inhabitants were overrun by mongols in the 13th century. an asian soviet from 1936 to 1991
iceland;an island republic on the island of iceland. became independent of denmark in 1944
dahomey;formerly part of french west africa
tallahassee;capital of the state of florida. located in northern florida
commonwealth;the official name of some states in the united states (massachusetts and pennsylvania and virginia and kentucky) and associated territories (puerto rico)
sofia;capital and largest city of bulgaria
land of lincoln;a midwest state in north-central united states
kyrgystan;a landlocked republic in west central asia bordering on northwestern china. formerly an asian soviet
homeland;the country where you were born
independence;a city in western missouri. the beginning of the santa fe trail
congressional district;a territorial division of a state. entitled to elect one member to the united states house of representatives
nicaragua;a republic in central america
italian capital;capital and largest city of italy. on the tiber. seat of the roman catholic church. formerly the capital of the roman republic and the roman empire
nigeria;a republic in west africa on the gulf of guinea. africa's most populous country. gained independence from britain in 1960
volunteer state;a state in east central united states
britain;a kingdom divided into england and scotland and wales and northern ireland
glasgow;largest city in scotland. a port in west central scotland. one of the great shipbuilding centers of the world
calgary;a city is s alberta. center of a large agricultural region
capital of rwanda;the capital and largest city of rwanda. located in central rwanda
libreville;the capital of gabon
capital of oklahoma;capital and largest city of oklahoma
arizona;a state in southwestern united states. site of the grand canyon
new york state;a mid-atlantic state. one of the original 13 colonies
luanda;the capital and largest city of angola. achieved independence from portugal in 1976 and has since been the scene of civil war
greek capital;the capital and largest city of greece. named after athena (its patron goddess). 'in the 5th century bc ancient athens was the world's most powerful and civilized city'
saint lucia;a country on the island of saint lucia. gained independence from great britain in 1979
austin;state capital of texas and site of the university of texas
basutoland;a constitutional monarchy in southern africa
muritaniya;a country in west africa with a provisional military government. largely sahara desert
douala;the largest city of cameroon
afghanistan;a mountainous country in central asia. bordered by iran to the west and russia to the north and pakistan to the east and south. 'soviet troops invaded afghanistan in 1979'
capital of kuwait;a seaport on the persian gulf and capital of kuwait
lincoln;capital of the state of nebraska. located in southeastern nebraska. site of the university of nebraska
thule;a town in northwestern greenland. during world war ii a united states naval base was built there
uptown;a residential part of town away from the central commercial district
state;the territory occupied by a nation. 'he returned to the land of his birth'. 'he visited several european countries'
marshall islands;a republic (under united states protection) on the marshall islands
addition;a suburban area laid out in streets and lots for a future residential area
taskent;the capital of uzbekistan
ho chi minh city;a city in s vietnam. formerly (as saigon) it was the capital of french indochina
hometown;the town (or city) where you grew up or where you have your principal residence. 'he never went back to his hometown again'
thebes;an ancient greek city in boeotia destroyed by alexander the great in 336 bc
dallas;a large commercial and industrial city in northeastern texas
mannheim;a city in southwestern germany at the confluence of the rhine and neckar rivers
namibia;a country in southwestern africa (formerly called south west africa). the greater part of namibia form part of the high plateau of south africa
tanzania;a republic in eastern africa
castries;a port on the island of saint lucia. capital and largest city of saint lucia
kiev;capital and largest city of the ukraine. a major manufacturing and transportation center
sultanate;territory ruled by a sultan
jakarta;capital and largest city of indonesia. located on the island of java. founded by the dutch in 17th century
ivory coast;a republic in west africa on the gulf of guinea. one of the most prosperous and politically stable countries in africa
albany;state capital of new york. located in eastern new york state on the west bank of the hudson river
valencia;a city in eastern spain on the mediterranean. 'valencia is the third largest city in spain'
singapore;a country in southeastern asia on the island of singapore
kuala lumpur;the capital and largest city of malaysia
capital of iowa;the capital and largest city in iowa
oklahoma;a state in south central united states
ilium;an ancient city in asia minor that was the site of the trojan war
hangchow;a city of eastern china on hangzhou bay (an inlet of the east china sea). regarded by marco polo as the finest city in the world
abbacy;the jurisdiction or office of an abbot
fatherland;the country where you were born
phoenix;the state capital and largest city of arizona
capital of zambia;the capital and largest city of zambia
bruges;a city in northwestern belgium in west flanders province. connected by canal to the north sea. the old city is a popular tourist attraction
faroe islands;a self-governing colony of denmark on the faroe islands
orizaba;a city of east central mexico (west of veracruz). a popular resort
capital of south carolina;capital and largest city in south carolina. located in central south carolina
northwest territories;a territory in northwestern canada
diocese;the territorial jurisdiction of a bishop
jerevan;capital of armenia
borough;one of the administrative divisions of a large city
dutch east indies;a republic in southeastern asia including more than 13,000 islands. freed from dutch control in 1949. the principal oil producer in the far east and pacific regions
windy city;largest city in illinois. located on lake michigan
brazil;the largest latin american country and the largest portuguese speaking country in the world. located in eastern south america. world's leading coffee exporter
colony;"a territorial possession controlled by a ruling state"
addis ababa;the capital of ethiopia and the country's largest city. located in central ethiopia
accra;the capital and largest city of ghana
al iraq;a republic in the middle east. the ancient civilization of mesopotamia was in the area now known as iraq
baku;the capital of azerbaijan
chester;a city of southeastern pennsylvania on the delaware river (an industrial suburb of philadelphia)
edo;the capital and largest city of japan. the economic and cultural center of japan
ukrayina;a republic in southeastern europe. formerly a european soviet
moldavia;a landlocked republic in eastern europe. formerly a european soviet
salonika;a city in northeastern greece on an inlet of the aegean sea. the 2nd largest city of greece
senegal;a republic in western africa on the coast of the atlantic. formerly a french colony
housing development;a residential area of dwellings built by property developers. 'they live in the new housing development'
st. thomas and principe;island nation in the south atlantic off the west coast of africa
cebu;an important seaport on the island of cebu in the philippines
kovna;a city in central lithuania
nova scotia;the canadian province in the maritimes consisting of the nova scotia peninsula and cape breton island. french settlers who called the area acadia were exiled to louisiana by the british in the 1750s and their descendants are know as cajuns
cape town;the seat of the legislative branch of the government of south africa
tabora;a city in central tanzania
rotterdam;the 2nd largest city in the netherlands. located in the western netherlands near the north sea
capital of the netherlands;the site of the government of the netherlands and of the royal residence. seat of the international court of justice
saint petersburg;a city in the european part of russia. 2nd largest russian city. located at the head of the gulf of finland on the neva river. former capital of russia
moscow;formerly capital of both the soviet union and soviet russia. since 1992 the capital of russia
dar es salaam;the capital and second largest city of tanzania
arab republic of egypt;a republic in northeastern africa. site of an ancient civilization that flourished from 2600 to 30 bc
caliphate;the territorial jurisdiction of a caliph
capital of moldova;the capital of moldova
caracas;the capital and largest city of venezuela
ndjamena;the capital and largest city of chad. located in the southwestern on the shari river
benghazi;one of the capital cities of libya
capital of norway;the capital and largest city of norway. the country's main port is located at the head of fjord on norway's southern coast
capital of kansas;the capital of the state of kansas. located in eastern kansas on the kansas river
doha;the capital and chief port of qatar
goldfield;a district where gold is mined
capital of turkmenistan;the capital and largest city of turkmenistan
quarter;a district of a city having some distinguishing character. 'the latin quarter'
leiden;a city in the western netherlands. residence of the pilgrim fathers for 11 years before they sailed for america in 1620
seafront;the waterfront of a seaside town
lagos;capital and largest city and economic center of nigeria. a port located in southwestern nigeria on the gulf of guinea
french guinea;a republic in eastern africa on the atlantic. formerly a french colony
capital of north korea;capital of north korea and an industrial center. 'pyongyang is korea's oldest city but little of its history has been preserved'
capital of iraq;capital and largest city of iraq. located on the tigris river. 'baghdad is one of the great cities of the moslem world'
atlantic city;a city on the atlantic shore in southeastern new jersey. a resort and gambling center
zaire;a republic in central africa. formerly under belgian control
minneapolis;largest city in minnesota. located in southeastern minnesota on the mississippi river. one of the twin cities
manila;the capital and largest city of the philippines. located on southern luzon
jaffa;a port in western israel on the mediterranean. incorporated into tel aviv in 1950
capital of chad;the capital and largest city of chad. located in the southwestern on the shari river
capital of northern ireland;capital and largest city of northern ireland. the center of irish protestantism
slum area;a district of a city marked by poverty and inferior living conditions
capital of virginia;capital of the state of virginia located in the east central part of the state. was capital of the confederacy during the american civil war
castilla;a region of central spain. a former kingdom that comprised most of modern spain and united with aragon to form spain in 1479
niger;a republic in west africa. gained independence from france in 1960
illinois;a midwest state in north-central united states
dockyard;an establishment on the waterfront where vessels are built or fitted out or repaired
riga;the capital and largest city of latvia
salem;a city of southern india
tijuana;a mexican city just south of san diego on the lower california peninsula. popular among american tourists for racetracks and bullfights
old north state;a state in southeastern united states. one of the original 13 colonies
central american nation;countries occupying central america. except for belize and costa rica these countries are characterized by low per capita income and unstable governments
piedmont;the region of northwestern italy. includes the po valley
missouri;a midwestern state in central united states
polska;a republic in central europe. the invasion of poland by germany in 1939 started world war ii
siracusa;a city in southeastern sicily that was founded by corinthians in the 8th century bc
capital of gambia;the capital of gambia
hargeisa;a city in northwestern somalia
hannover;a port city in northwestern germany
guine bissau;a republic in western africa
capital of seychelles;the capital of seychelles
irish free state;a republic occupying most of the island of ireland
capital of sierra leone;the capital and largest city of sierra leone
st. kitts and nevis;a country on several of the leeward islands. located east southeast of puerto rico
capital of cyprus;the capital and largest city of cyprus
united kingdom;a kingdom divided into england and scotland and wales and northern ireland
tianjin;a major industrial center in northeastern china on the grand canal near the yellow sea. 3rd largest city in china
samarkand;tamerlane's capital in the 14th century
capital of costa rica;the capital and largest city of costa rica
carson city;capital of the state of nevada. located in western nevada
mauritanie;a country in west africa with a provisional military government. largely sahara desert
troy;an ancient city in asia minor that was the site of the trojan war
capital of finland;the capital and largest city of finland. located in s finland. a major port and commercial and cultural center
djibouti;a country in eastern africa on the gulf of aden. formerly under french control
gaborone;capital and largest city of botswana
outskirt;a part of the city far removed from the center. 'they built a factory on the outskirts of the city'
patriarchate;the jurisdiction of a patriarch
bristol;an industrial city and port in southwestern england near the mouth of the river avon
town;an administrative division of a county. 'the town is responsible for snow removal'
motor city;the largest city in michigan and a major great lakes port. center of the united states automobile industry. located in southeastern michigan on the detroit river
berkshire;a county in southern england
new delhi;the capital of india is a division of the old city of delhi
sebastopol;a city in s ukraine on the black sea
quebec;the largest province of canada. a french colony from 1663 to 1759 when it was lost to the british
cheyenne;the capital and largest city of wyoming. located in the southeastern corner of the state
masqat;a port (on the gulf of oman) and capital of the sultanate of oman
kinshasa;the capital of zaire on the congo river opposite brazzaville
louisiana;a state in s united states on the gulf of mexico. one of the confederate states during the american civil war
perm;a city in the european part of russia
veracruz;a major mexican port on the gulf of mexico in the state of veracruz
venezuela;a republic in northern south america on the caribbean. rich in oil
vanuatu;an island republic in melanesia. independent since 1980
north yorkshire;a county in northern england
province;"a territorial possession controlled by a ruling state"
european nation;countries occupying the european continent
uruguay;a republic on the east coast of south america
democratic republic of the congo;a republic in central africa. formerly under belgian control
rostov na donu;a seaport in the european part of russia
union of soviet socialist republics;a former communist country in eastern europe and northern asia. established in 1922. included russia and 14 other soviet socialist republics (ukraine and byelorussia an others). officially dissolved 31 december 1991
kazakh;a landlocked republic south of russia and northeast of the caspian sea. the original turkic-speaking inhabitants were overrun by mongols in the 13th century. an asian soviet from 1936 to 1991
vina del mar;a resort city on the pacific in central chile
kirgiz;a landlocked republic in west central asia bordering on northwestern china. formerly an asian soviet
pierre;capital of the state of south dakota. located in central south dakota on the missouri river
territory;"a region marked off for administrative or other purposes"
praha;capital and largest city of czechoslovakia
capital of new jersey;capital of the state of new jersey. located in western new jersey on the delaware river
charleston;state capital of west virginia in the central part of the state on the kanawha river
haiti;a republic in the west indies on the island of hispaniola. the poorest nation in the western hemisphere
capital of cape verde;the capital of cape verde on sao tiago island
st. paul;capital of the state of minnesota. located in southeastern minnesota on the mississippi river adjacent to minneapolis. one of the twin cities
sevastopol;a city in s ukraine on the black sea
wichita;the largest city in kansas. located in s kansas on the arkansas river
biskek;the capital of kyrgystan
marruecos;a kingdom (constitutional monarchy) in northwestern africa
mexico;a republic in southern north america. became independent from spain in 1821
liberia;a republic in west africa. established in 1822 by americans as a way to free negro slaves
connecticut;a new england state. one of the original 13 colonies
wuerzburg;a city of south central germany
beverly hills;a city in southwestern california surrounded by los angeles. home of many hollywood actors
colorado springs;a city in central colorado. popular tourist center and site of the united states air force academy
central africa;a country in central africa. formerly under french control. became independent in 1960
catalonia;a region of northeastern spain
free state;any state prohibiting slavery prior to the civil war
donetsk;an industrial city in the donets basin
balkan country;a country on the balkan peninsula
savannah;a port in eastern georgia near the mouth of the savannah river
annapolis;state capital of maryland. site of the united states naval academy
basel;a city in northwestern switzerland
capital of zimbabwe;the capital and largest city of zimbabwe
lesotho;a constitutional monarchy in southern africa
santa clara;a city of west central california. residential area with light industry
city of the angels;a city in southern california. most populous city of california
kingstown;the capital of saint vincent and the grenadines. on saint vincent
cameroon;a republic in west-central africa. was under french and british control until 1960
castile;a region of central spain. a former kingdom that comprised most of modern spain and united with aragon to form spain in 1479
capital of west virginia;state capital of west virginia in the central part of the state on the kanawha river
san salvador;the capital and largest city of el salvador. has suffered from recurrent earthquakes
belarus;a landlocked republic in eastern europe. formerly a european soviet
gorkiy;an industrial city in the european part of russia
aquila;the provincial capital of the abruzzi region in central italy
jordan;an arab kingdom in southwestern asia on the red sea
racine;a city in southeastern wisconsin on lake michigan s of milwaukee
lilongwe;the capital of malawi. located in south central malawi
jurisdiction;in law. the territory within which power can be exercised
kobenhavn;the capital and largest city of denmark. sometimes called 'the paris of the north'
qum;a city in northwestern iran. a place of pilgrimage for shiite muslims
scandinavian country;countries occupying scandinavia
people s republic of the congo;a republic in west-central africa. achieved independence from france in 1960
venezia;the provincial capital of veneto. built on 118 islands within a lagoon in the gulf of venice which is an arm of the adriatic. has canals instead of streets. one of italy's major ports and a famous tourist attraction
police precinct;a precinct in which law enforcement is the responsibility of particular police force
election district;one of several districts into which a city or town is divided for voting. each contains one polling place
sfax;the second largest city in tunisia. located in eastern tunisia near a phosphate region
pyongyang;capital of north korea and an industrial center. 'pyongyang is korea's oldest city but little of its history has been preserved'
hiroshima;a city on the southwestern coast of honshu island in japan. on august 6, 1945 hiroshima was almost completely destroyed by the first atomic bomb dropped on a populated area
montpelier;capital of the state of vermont. located in north central vermont
fort wayne;a city in northeastern indiana
yunnan;a province of southern china
binghamton;a city in south central new york near the border with pennsylvania
egyptian capital;the capital of egypt and the largest city in africa. a major port just s of the nile delta. formerly the home of the pharaohs
capital of chile;the capital and largest city of chile. one of the largest cities in south america
delphi;an ancient greek city on the slopes of mount parnassus. site of the temple of apollo
cordoba;a city in southern spain. center of moorish culture
mormon state;a state in the western united states. settled in 1847 by mormons led by brigham young
french sudan;a landlocked republic in western africa
residential district;a district where people live. occupied primarily by private residences
omsk;a city in the asian part of russia
malaysia;a country in southeastern asia on borneo and the malay peninsula
reserve;a district that is reserved for particular purpose
capital of georgia;state capital and largest city of georgia. plundered and burned by sherman's army during the american civil war
campania;a region of southwestern italy on the tyrrhenian sea including the islands of capri and ischia
capital of minnesota;capital of the state of minnesota. located in southeastern minnesota on the mississippi river adjacent to minneapolis. one of the twin cities
liguria;region of northwestern italy on the ligurian sea
queens;a borough of new york city
el giza;an ancient egyptian city on the west bank of the nile opposite cairo. site of three great pyramids and the sphinx
harare;the capital and largest city of zimbabwe
battle born state;a state in the western united states
soviet socialist republic;one of the states that formerly made up the former union of soviet socialist republics (1922-1991)
nicosia;the capital and largest city of cyprus
north dakota;a state of north central united states bordering on canada
abruzzi;a mountainous region of central italy on the adriatic
australian capital;the capital of australia. located in southeastern australia
turkmen;a republic in asia east of the caspian sea and south of kazakhstan and north of iran. an asian soviet from 1925 to 1991
north american country;a country on the north american continent
capital of pennsylvania;capital of pennsylvania. located in s part of state
guinea bissau;a republic in western africa
antananarivo;the capital and largest city of the malagasy republic
wellington;the capital of new zealand
skid row;a city district frequented by vagrants and alcoholics and addicts
nyasaland;a landlocked republic in s africa
sverige;a scandinavian kingdom in eastern scandinavia
jerez;a city in southwestern spain that is famous for making sherry
burlington;the largest city in vermont. located in northwestern vermont on lake champlain. site of the university of vermont
chihuahua;a state in northern mexico
forbidden city;the sacred city of lamaism. known as the forbidden city for its former inaccessibility and hostility to strangers
st. petersburg;a city in the european part of russia. 2nd largest russian city. located at the head of the gulf of finland on the neva river. former capital of russia
russia;a former communist country in eastern europe and northern asia. established in 1922. included russia and 14 other soviet socialist republics (ukraine and byelorussia an others). officially dissolved 31 december 1991
paris;the capital and largest city of france. and international center of culture and commerce
capital of lesotho;the capital of lesotho. located in northwestern lesotho
honduras;a republic in central america
faubourg;a new orleans district lying outside the original city limits. used in combination with the names of various quarters of the city: 'in faubourg sainte marie'
luxembourg;the capital and largest city of luxembourg
gambia;a republic in west africa
bay state;a state in new england. one of the original 13 colonies
combat zone;a city district known for its vice and high crime rate
republic of congo;a republic in west-central africa. achieved independence from france in 1960
moldova;a landlocked republic in eastern europe. formerly a european soviet
oslo;the capital and largest city of norway. the country's main port is located at the head of fjord on norway's southern coast
kovno;a city in central lithuania
cambodia;a nation in asia. was part of french-ruled indochina until 1946
charlotte;the largest city in north carolina. located in south central north carolina
kalimantan;the part of indonesia on the s of the island of borneo
capital of delaware;the capital of the state of delaware
vladivostok;a seaport in the asian part of russia
dakar;the capital and largest city of senegal
mother country;the country where you were born
old delhi;a city in north-central india
faeroe islands;a self-governing colony of denmark on the faroe islands
shire;(british) a former administrative district of england. equivalent to a county
bonn;a city in western germany on the rhine river. was the capital of west germany between 1949 and 1989
thibet;an asian country under the control of china. located in the himalayas
native land;the country where you were born
kordofan;a mountainous province of central sudan
khartoum;the capital of sudan located at the confluence of the blue nile and white nile
diamond state;a mid-atlantic state. one of the original 13 colonies
capital of illinois;capital of the state of illinois
south american country;countries occupying the south american continent
new jersey;a mid-atlantic state on the atlantic. one of the original 13 colonies
italia;a republic in s europe. was the core of the roman republic and the roman empire between the 4th century bc and the 5th century ad
tokyo;the capital and largest city of japan. the economic and cultural center of japan
seoul;the capital and largest city of south korea. located in northwestern south korea
justiciary;the jurisdiction of a justiciar
mauritania;a country in west africa with a provisional military government. largely sahara desert
saqqarah;a town in northern egypt. site of the oldest egyptian pyramids (the step pyramid)
finnish capital;the capital and largest city of finland. located in s finland. a major port and commercial and cultural center
capital of rhode island;the capital and largest city of rhode island. located in northeastern rhode island on narragansett bay. site of brown university
capital of israel;capital and largest city of the modern state of israel. a holy city for jews and christians and moslems. was the capital of an ancient kingdom
prague;capital and largest city of czechoslovakia
panamanian capital;the capital and largest city of panama
viet nam;a republic in indochina on the south china sea
muscat and oman;a strategically located monarchy on the southern and eastern coasts of the arabian peninsula
puerto rico;a self-governing commonwealth associated with the united states occupying the island of puerto rico
jerusalem;capital and largest city of the modern state of israel. a holy city for jews and christians and moslems. was the capital of an ancient kingdom
rochester;a city in western new york. a center of the photographic equipment industry
schenectady;a city of eastern new york on the mohawk river. it prospered after the opening of the erie canal
canadian capital;the capital of canada (located in southeastern ontario across the ottawa river from quebec)
off broadway;low-budget theaters located outside the broadway area in manhattan
hungarian capital;capital and largest city of hungary. located on the danube river in north-central hungary
stratford on avon;a town in central england on the river avon. birthplace (and burial place) of william shakespeare
republic of korea;a republic in the s half of the korean peninsula. established in 1948
cancun;a popular island resort off the northeastern tip of the yucatan peninsula
