order;"established customary state esp. of society. 'order ruled in the streets'. 'law and order'"
pattern;something regarded as a normative example. 'the convention of not naming the main character'. 'violence is the rule not the exception'. 'his formula for impressing visitors'
ritual;the prescribed procedure for conducting religious ceremonies
celebration;the public performance of a sacrament or solemn ceremony with all appropriate ritual. 'the celebration of marriage'
ritual;stereotyped behavior
practice;"knowledge of how something is customarily done: 'it is not the local practice to wear shorts to dinner'"
rite;any customary observance or practice
peace;harmonious relations. freedom from disputes. 'the roommates lived in peace together'
lynch law;the practice of punishing people by hanging without due process of law
betrothal;the act of becoming betrothed or engaged
teasing;the act of teasing. provoking someone with persistent annoyances
harassment;tormenting by continued persistent attacks and criticism
excruciation;the infliction of extremely painful punishment or suffering
courtly love;(medieval) a highly conventionalized code of conduct for lovers
couvade;a custom among some peoples whereby the husband of a pregnant wife is put to bed at the time of bearing the child
wont;a pattern of behavior acquired through frequent repetition. 'she had a habit twirling the ends of her hair'. 'long use had hardened him to it'
barbarity;a brutal barbarous savage act
convention;something regarded as a normative example. 'the convention of not naming the main character'. 'violence is the rule not the exception'. 'his formula for impressing visitors'
oppression;the act of subjugating by cruelty
unwritten law;law based on customary behavior
normal;something regarded as a normative example. 'the convention of not naming the main character'. 'violence is the rule not the exception'. 'his formula for impressing visitors'
anglicism;a custom that is peculiar to england or its citizens
maltreatment;cruel or inhumane treatment
community of interests;agreement as to goals. 'the preachers and the bootleggers found they had a community of interests'
general agreement;agreement of the majority in sentiment or belief
stability;a stable order
peonage;the practice of making a debtor work for his creditor until the debt is discharged
victimization;an act that exploits or victimizes someone
comity;a state or atmosphere of harmony or mutual civility and respect
consensus;agreement of the majority in sentiment or belief
civil order;the form of government of a social organization
savagery;a brutal barbarous savage act
troubling;the act of annoying someone
britishism;a custom that is peculiar to england or its citizens
neglect;lack of care and attention
baiting;harassment especially of a tethered animal
custom;a specific practice of long standing
torment;the act of harassing someone
espousal;archaic terms for a wedding or wedding feast
badgering;the act of harassing someone
formula;something regarded as a normative example. 'the convention of not naming the main character'. 'violence is the rule not the exception'. 'his formula for impressing visitors'
neocolonialism;control by a powerful country of its former colonies (or other less developed countries) by economic pressures
careerism;the practice of advancing your career at the expense of your personal integrity
one upmanship;the practice of keeping one jump ahead of a friend or competitor
habit;a pattern of behavior acquired through frequent repetition. 'she had a habit twirling the ends of her hair'. 'long use had hardened him to it'
tradition;a specific practice of long standing
symbolism;the practice of investing things with symbolic meaning
protocol;code of correct conduct: 'safety protocols'. 'academic protocol'
transvestitism;the practice of adopting the clothes or the manner or the sexual role of the opposite sex
solemnization;the public performance of a sacrament or solemn ceremony with all appropriate ritual. 'the celebration of marriage'
formalism;the practice of scrupulous adherence to prescribed or external forms
mistreatment;the practice of treating (someone or something) badly. 'he should be punished for his mistreatment of his mother'
truce;a state of peace agreed to between opponents so they can discuss peace terms
unanimity;everyone being of one mind
cease fire;a state of peace agreed to between opponents so they can discuss peace terms
mccarthyism;unscrupulously accusing people of disloyalty (as by saying they were communists)
custom;accepted practice
colonialism;exploitation by a stronger country of weaker one. the use of the weaker country's resources to strengthen and enrich the stronger country
brutality;a brutal barbarous savage act
practice;"a customary way of operation or behavior. 'it is their practice to give annual raises'. 'they changed their dietary pattern'"
wont;an established custom. 'it was their habit to dine at 7 every evening'
tranquillity;an untroubled state. free from disturbances
rule of law;a state of order in which events conform to the law
holy communion;the act of participating in the celebration of the eucharist
social contract;an implicit agreement among people that results in the organization of society. individual surrenders liberty in return for protection
heritage;practices that are handed down from the past by tradition. 'a heritage of freedom'
cruelty;a cruel act. a deliberate infliction of pain and suffering
remarriage;the act of marrying again
concordance;a harmonious state. congruity of parts with one another and with the whole
sense of the meeting;the opinion held by the majority of those present at the meeting
code of behavior;a set of conventional principles and expectations that are considered binding on any person who is a member of a particular group
espousal;the act of becoming betrothed or engaged
fashion;characteristic or habitual practice
cleanliness;the habit of keeping free of superficial imperfections
meeting of minds;a state of cooperation
nudism;the practice of living without clothes for reasons of health
annoyance;the act of annoying someone
amity;a state of friendship and cordiality
consuetude;a custom or usage that has acquired the force of law
inhumanity;a act of atrocious cruelty
irritation;the act of annoying someone
communion;the act of participating in the celebration of the eucharist
tease;the act of teasing. provoking someone with persistent annoyances
round;the usual activities in your day. 'the doctor made his rounds'
ill usage;cruel or inhumane treatment
exploitation;an act that exploits or victimizes someone
bridal;archaic terms for a wedding or wedding feast
armistice;a state of peace agreed to between opponents so they can discuss peace terms
abuse;cruel or inhumane treatment
code of conduct;a set of conventional principles and expectations that are considered binding on any person who is a member of a particular group
mores;(sociology) the conventions that embody the fundamental values of a group
concord;a harmonious state. congruity of parts with one another and with the whole
standard of living;"a level of material comfort in terms of goods and services available to someone"
marriage ceremony;the act of marrying. the nuptial ceremony. 'their marriage was conducted in the chapel'
marriage;the act of marrying. the nuptial ceremony. 'their marriage was conducted in the chapel'
modernism;practices typical of contemporary life or thought
usage;accepted practice
polity;the form of government of a social organization
pogrom;organized persecution of an ethnic group (especially jews)
subjugation;the act of subjugating by cruelty
cooperation;the practice of cooperating: 'economic cooperation'. 'they agreed on a policy of cooperation'
slavery;the practice of slaveholding
popery;an offensive term for the practices and rituals of the roman catholic church
bedevilment;the act of harassing someone
gymnosophy;the doctrine of a sect of hindu philosophers who practiced nudity and asceticism and meditation
ritual;any customary observance or practice
torture;the act of torturing someone
concurrence;a state of cooperation
pax romana;the roman peace. the long period of peace enforced on states in the roman empire
peacefulness;a state that is calm and tranquil
peaceableness;a state that is calm and tranquil
witch hunt;searching out and harassing dissenters
child neglect;failure of caretakers to provide adequate emotional and physical care for a child
unison;corresponding exactly: 'marching in unison'
habit;an established custom. 'it was their habit to dine at 7 every evening'
pattern;"a customary way of operation or behavior. 'it is their practice to give annual raises'. 'they changed their dietary pattern'"
civil marriage;a marriage performed by a government official rather than by a clergyman
vexation;the act of annoying someone
love match;a marriage for love's sake. not an arranged marriage
disregard;lack of care and attention
peace;the state prevailing during the absence of war
inhuman treatment;a cruel act. a deliberate infliction of pain and suffering
atrocity;a act of atrocious cruelty
americanism;a custom that is peculiar to the us or its citizens
s.o.p.;the procedure that would normally be followed
standard of life;"a level of material comfort in terms of goods and services available to someone"
comity of nations;courteous respect by one nation for the laws and institutions of another
sexual harassment;unwelcome sexual behavior by a supervisor toward an employee
institution;a custom that for a long time has been an important feature of some group or society. 'the institution of marriage'. 'he had become an institution in the theater'
sop;the procedure that would normally be followed
molestation;tormenting by continued persistent attacks and criticism
community;agreement as to goals. 'the preachers and the bootleggers found they had a community of interests'
annoying;the act of annoying someone
exasperation;actions that cause great irritation (or even anger)
harmony;a harmonious state. congruity of parts with one another and with the whole
using;an act that exploits or victimizes someone
ill treatment;cruel or inhumane treatment
uncleanliness;the habit of neglecting cleanliness
crucifixion;the infliction of extremely painful punishment or suffering
impalement;the act of piercing with a sharpened stake as a form of punishment or torture
accord;harmony of people's opinions or actions or characters. 'the two parties were in accord'
quiet;an untroubled state. free from disturbances
worrying;the act of harassing someone
cross dressing;the practice of adopting the clothes or the manner or the sexual role of the opposite sex
transvestism;the practice of adopting the clothes or the manner or the sexual role of the opposite sex
path of least resistance;the easiest way. 'in marrying him she simply took the path of least resistance'
barbarism;a brutal barbarous savage act
wedding;the act of marrying. the nuptial ceremony. 'their marriage was conducted in the chapel'
knight errantry;(medieval) the code of conduct observed by a knight errant who is wandering in search of deeds of chivalry
rule;something regarded as a normative example. 'the convention of not naming the main character'. 'violence is the rule not the exception'. 'his formula for impressing visitors'
persecution;the act of persecuting (especially on the basis of race or religion)
biologism;use of biological principles in explaining human especially social behavior
featherbedding;the practice (usually by a labor union) of requiring an employer to hire more workers than are required
child abuse;the physical or emotional or sexual mistreatment of children
daily round;the usual activities in your day. 'the doctor made his rounds'
naturism;the practice of living without clothes for reasons of health
agreement;harmony of people's opinions or actions or characters. 'the two parties were in accord'
victimisation;an act that exploits or victimizes someone
intercommunion;participation in holy communion by members of more than one church (eg catholic and orthodox)
germanism;a custom that is peculiar to germany or its citizens
outrage;a wantonly cruel act
use;a pattern of behavior acquired through frequent repetition. 'she had a habit twirling the ends of her hair'. 'long use had hardened him to it'
line of least resistance;the easiest way. 'in marrying him she simply took the path of least resistance'
habitude;habitual mode of behavior
standard operating procedure;the procedure that would normally be followed
torturing;the act of torturing someone
cannibalism;the practice of eating the flesh of your own kind
ritualism;exaggerated emphasis on the importance of rites or ritualistic forms in worship
exacerbation;violent and bitter exasperation. 'his foolishness was followed by an exacerbation of their quarrel'
collective security;a system for international peace
