tightfistedness;extreme stinginess
sage green;the color of sage leaves
corruptness;lack of integrity or honesty. esp susceptibility to bribery. use of a position of trust for dishonest gain
non discrimination;fairness in treating people without prejudice
absorbency;the property of being absorbent
approximation;the quality of of being similar (especially close in value)
sin;estrangement from god
sturdiness;the property of something that is strongly built
inharmoniousness;a lack of harmony
simplicity;lack of ornamentation
diverseness;noticeable heterogeneity. 'a diversity of possibilities'. 'the range and variety of his work is amazing'
violence;the property of being wild or turbulent. 'the storm's violence'
gdp;measure of the us economy adopted in 1991. the total market values of goods and services by produced by workers and capital within the us borders during a given period (usually 1 yr)
intimacy;close or warm friendship. 'the absence of fences created a mysterious intimacy in which no one knew privacy'
persistency;persistent determination
downrightness;the quality of being direct and straightforward. 'what some people take for rudeness is really straightforwardness'
impuissance;powerlessness revealed by an inability to act. 'in spite of their weakness the group remains highly active'
benignancy;the quality of being kind and gentle
similarity;the quality of being similar
strictness;conscientious attention to rules and details
power of appointment;authority given (in a will or deed) by a donor to a donee to appoint the beneficiaries of the donor's property
thoughtfulness;the trait of thinking carefully before acting
second adventism;any christian religion that believes the second coming of christ is imminent
attractiveness;a beauty that appeals to the senses
durability;permanence by virtue of the power to resist stress or force. 'they advertised the durability of their products'
ricketiness;the quality of being unstable and insecure. 'the shakiness of the present regime'
alkalinity;ph values above 7
form;an ability to perform well. 'he was at the top of his form'. 'the team was off form last night'
resolution;the trait of being resolute. firmness of purpose. 'his resoluteness carried him through the battle'. 'it was his unshakeable resolution to finish the work'
gleam;an appearance of reflected light
openness;willingness or readiness to receive esp impressions or ideas: 'their receptivity to the proposal'
unhurriedness;a rate demonstrating an absence of haste or hurry
loyalty;the quality of being loyal
doctor of osteopathy;doctor's degree in osteopathy
spareness;the property of being scanty or scattered. lacking denseness
singularity;strangeness by virtue of being remarkable or unusual
meretriciousness;tasteless showiness
shrewishness;a nature given to nagging or scolding
induction;(physics) a property of an electric circuit by which an electromotive force is induced in it by a variation of current
magnitude;the property of relative size or extent. 'they tried to predict the magnitude of the explosion'
doctor of arts;an honorary arts degree
voodooism;a religious cult practiced chiefly in caribbean countries (especially haiti). involves witchcraft and animistic deities
gaudiness;tasteless showiness
grey;a neutral achromatic color midway between while and black
unconscientiousness;the trait of not being painstaking or careful
redness;the quality or state of the chromatic color resembling the hue of blood
anglicanism;the faith and doctrine and practice of the anglican church
sanctimony;the quality of being hypocritically devout
pianissimo;(music) low loudness
laxity;the quality of being lax and neglectful
assailability;vulnerability to forceful attack
accessibility;the quality of being at hand when needed
perspicuousness;clarity as a consequence of being perspicuous
optimum;most favorable condition or greatest degree or amount possible under given circumstances
charcoal;a very dark gray color
greenishness;the property of being somewhat green
cheek;impudent aggressiveness. 'i couldn't believe her boldness'. 'he had the effrontery to question my honesty'
viciousness;the trait of extreme cruelty
yellowish brown;a medium to dark tan color
oppressiveness;unwelcome burdensome difficulty
flexibility;the trait of being easily persuaded
immotility;lacking an ability to move
frigidity;a lack of passion or enthusiasm
internationality;quality of being international in scope: 'he applauded the internationality of scientific terminology'
stoutheartedness;the trait of having a courageous spirit
form;the visual appearance of something or someone. 'the delicate cast of his features'
outlandishness;strikingly out of the ordinary
chivalry;courtesy towards women
preciseness;clarity as a consequence of precision
profusion;the property of being extremely abundant
irresponsibility;the trait of lacking a sense of responsibility
pellucidity;passing light without diffusion or distortion
imbalance;(mathematics) a lack of symmetry
impalpability;the quality of being intangible
unchangingness;the quality of being unchangeable. having a marked tendency to remain unchanged
acceptance;a disposition to tolerate or accept people or situations
fatness;excess bodily weight. 'she found fatness disgusting in herself as well as in others'
stainability;(cytology) the capacity of cells or cell parts to stain specifically with certain dyes
crabbiness;a disposition to be ill tempered
hoariness;a silvery-white color
curtness;an abrupt discourteous manner
organization;an ordered manner. orderliness by virtue of being methodical and well organized. 'his compulsive organization was not an endearing quality'. 'we can't do it unless we establish some system around here'
krishnaism;worship of krishna the 8th avatar of vishnu
vaishnavism;worship of vishnu one of the 3 chief gods of the hindu pantheon
naturalness;the quality of innocent naivete
changelessness;the property of remaining unchanged
godlessness;impiety by virtue of not being a godly person
deepness;the quality of being physically deep: 'the profundity of the mine was almost a mile'
fastness;the quality of being fixed in place
vertu;artistic quality
rigor;the quality of being logically valid
conceit;the trait of being vain and conceited
studiousness;diligent study
warning coloration;conspicuous coloration or markings of an animal serving to warn off predators: 'a skunk's aposematic coloration'
nerve;the courage to carry on: 'he kept fighting on pure spunk'. 'you haven't got the heart for baseball'
wholeheartedness;the quality of hearty sincerity
arrogance;overbearing pride evidenced by a superior manner toward inferiors
inhumaneness;the quality of lacking compassion or consideration for others
chalk;a pure flat white with little reflectance
glibness;a kind of fluent easy superficiality. 'the glibness of a high-pressure salesman'
altruism;the quality of unselfish concern for the welfare of others
exchangeability;the quality of being capable of exchange or interchange
dominance;superior development of one side of the body
meticulosity;strict attention to minute details
unattractiveness;ugliness that is not appealing
impermanence;the property of not existing for indefinitely long durations
simmer;temperature just below the boiling point: 'the stew remained at a simmer for hours'
affectedness;the quality of being false or artificial
flatness;the property of having two dimensions
archness;inappropriate playfulness
anomie;lack of moral standards in a society
fitness;the quality of being qualified
full moon;the time when the moon is fully illuminated
palatableness;the property of being acceptable to the taste
disqualification;unfitness that bars you from participation
snobbishness;the trait of condescending to those of lower social status
roughness;a texture that is not smooth but is irregular and uneven
drama;the quality of being arresting or highly emotional
continence;voluntary control over urinary and fecal discharge
anglo catholicism;a doctrine and practice within the church of england emphasizing the catholic tradition
weirdness;strikingly out of the ordinary
indisputability;the quality of being beyond question or dispute or doubt
permeability;the property of something that can be pervaded by a liquid (as by osmosis or diffusion)
hospitableness;a disposition that welcomes guests and is fond of entertaining
everlastingness;the property of lasting forever
inappositeness;in appropriateness. 'greater inaptness of expression would be hard to imagine'
sponginess;the porosity of a sponge
fitfulness;the quality of being spasmodic and irregular
smartness;elegance by virtue of being fashionable
gall;the trait of being rude and impertinent. inclined to take liberties
blitt;a bachelor's degree in literature
commonplaceness;ordinariness as a consequence of being frequent and commonplace
perverseness;deliberate unruliness
deference;a disposition or tendency to yield to the will of others
compare;qualities that are comparable. 'no comparison between the two books'. 'beyond compare'
shamefulness;unworthiness meriting public disgrace and dishonor
graciousness;the quality of being kind and gentle
bulk;the property resulting from being or relating to the greater in number of two parts. the main part. 'the majority of his customers prefer it'. 'the bulk of the work is finished'
toleration;a disposition to tolerate or accept people or situations
emotionalism;emotional nature or quality
sportiveness;lively high-spirited playfulness
tendency;a characteristic likelihood of or natural disposition toward a certain condition or character or effect: 'the alkaline inclination of the local waters'. 'fabric with a tendency to shrink'
secureness;the quality of being fixed in place
greyness;a neutral achromatic color midway between while and black
gold;a deep yellow color. 'an amber light illuminated the room'. 'he admired the gold of her hair'
coming;the temporal property of becoming nearer in time. 'the approach of winter'
substantialness;the quality of being substantial or having substance
extra large;a garment size for a very large person
positiveness;characterized by dogmatic assertiveness
spot;a blemish made by dirt. 'he had a smudge on his cheek'
austereness;extreme plainness
gain;the advantageous quality of being beneficial
unscrupulousness;the quality of unscrupulous dishonesty
toughness;the elasticity and hardness of a metal object. its ability to absorb considerable energy before cracking
sphericity;the roundness of a 3-dimensional object
magical ability;an ability to perform magic
inequity;injustice by virtue of not being equitable
oddness;eccentricity that is not easily explained
inferiority;an inferior quality
iridescence;the visual property of something having a milky brightness
spirit;a fundamental emotional and activating principle determining one's character
adventism;any christian religion that believes the second coming of christ is imminent
benevolence;an inclination to do kind or charitable acts
proportion;magnitude or extent. 'a building of vast proportions'
effectiveness;the power to be effective
paleness;unnatural lack of color in the skin (as from bruising or sickness or emotional distress)
dapple grey;gray with a mottled pattern of darker gray markings
diligence;persevering determination to perform a task. 'his diligence won him quick promotions'. 'frugality and industry are still regarded as virtues'
moodiness;temperamental and changeable
islam;the monotheistic religion of muslims based on the koran
salinity;the relative proportion of salt in a solution
absolute zero;the lowest temperature theoretically attainable
shamanism;an animistic religion of northern asia having the belief that the mediation between the visible and the spirit worlds is effected by shamans
reasonableness;moderation in expectations. 'without greater reasonableness by both parties we will never settle this matter!'
bisexuality;showing characteristics of both sexes
burnt sienna;a shade of brown with a tinge of red
injudiciousness;the trait of being injudicious
phd;an american doctorate usually based on at least 3 years graduate study and a dissertation. the highest degree awarded by a graduate school
physique;constitution of the human body
virtue;a particular moral excellence
rococo;fanciful asymmetric ornamentation
hirsutism;excessive hairiness
tensile strength;the strength of material expressed as the greatest longitudinal stress it can bear without tearing apart
bewitchery;magnetic personal charm
magnanimousness;the quality of being exalted in character or ideals or conduct
antiquity;extreme oldness
eq;the atomic weight of an element that has the same combining capacity as a given weight of another element. the standard is 8 for oxygen
self induction;property whereby an electromotive force is induced in a circuit by a variation of current in the circuit itself
inconsiderateness;the quality of failing to be considerate of others
dishonorableness;the quality of not deserving honor or respect
purity;a woman's virtue or chastity
diplomacy;subtly skillful handling of a situation
real stuff;informal usage attributing authenticity
aridity;a condition yielding nothing of value
fluency;the quality of being facile in speech and writing
throttlehold;complete power over a person or situation
orneriness;mean-spirited disagreeable contrariness
disingenuousness;the quality of being disingenuous and lacking candor
immovability;no capable of being moved or rearranged
pantheism;belief in multiple gods
fatuousness;a ludicrous folly. 'the crowd laughed at the absurdity of the clown's behavior'
motility;ability to move spontaneously and independently
exactitude;the quality of being exact. 'he demanded exactness in all details'. 'a man of great exactitude'
unneighborliness;an unneighborly disposition
throw weight;the weight of the payload of a missile (not including the weight of the rocket)
garrulousness;the quality of being wordy and talkative
reflection;a likeness in which left and right are reversed
enormousness;unusual largeness in size or extent
lemon yellow;a strong yellow color
enormity;the quality of being outrageous
ebullience;overflowing with enthusiasm
artificiality;the quality of being produced by people and not occurring naturally
understandability;the quality of comprehensible language or thought
real gnp;a version of the gnp that has been adjusted for the effects of inflation
buoyancy;irrepressible liveliness and good spirit. 'i admired his bouyancy and persistent good humor'
feasibleness;the quality of being doable
hush;(poetic) tranquil silence. 'the still of the night'
obsoleteness;the property of being out of date and not current
small;a garment size for a small person
pedigree;ancestry of a purebred animal
profoundness;the quality of being physically deep: 'the profundity of the mine was almost a mile'
spinelessness;the quality of lacking a strong character. an irresolute disposition
risibility;a disposition to laugh
sumptuousness;the quality possessed by something that is excessively expensive
commutability;exchangeability by virtue of being replaceable
insistence;urgently demanding attention. 'the insistence of their hunger'. 'he pressed his demand with considerable instancy'
sociableness;the relative tendency or disposition to be sociable or associate with one's fellows
floridness;extravagant elaborateness
canary;a moderate yellow with a greenish tinge
silence;the trait of keeping things secret
master of library science;a ,aster's degree in library science
discoloration;a soiled or discolored appearance. 'the wine left a dark stain'
isolation;preference for seclusion or isolation
unpersuasiveness;inability to persuade
maidenliness;behavior befitting a young maiden
simplicity;a lack of penetration or subtlety. 'they took advantage of her simplicity'
fragility;lack of physical strength
activeness;the trait of being active. moving or acting rapidly and energetically. 'the level of activity declines with age'
purposefulness;the quality of having a definite purpose
unchangeableness;the quality of being unchangeable. having a marked tendency to remain unchanged
dappled gray;gray with a mottled pattern of darker gray markings
abdominousness;the bodily property of a protruding belly
legality;lawfulness by virtue of conformity to a legal statute
favour;an advantage to the benefit of someone or something. 'the outcome was in his favor'
overplus;extreme excess. 'an embarrassment of riches'
injuriousness;destructiveness that causes harm or injury
tameness;the attribute of having been domesticated
bulginess;the property possessed by a rounded convexity
roughness;harsh or rough to the ear
thoughtfulness;kind and considerate regard for others. 'he showed no consideration for her feelings'
cherry red;a red the color of ripe cherries
obtrusiveness;an unwelcome conspicuousness
sneakiness;a disposition to be sly and stealthy and to do things surreptitiously
dapperness;stylishness as evidenced by a smart appearance
robustness;the property of strong in constitution
maternal quality;the tenderness and warmth and affection of or befitting a mother: 'the girl's motherliness made her invaluable in caring for the children'
carefreeness;the trait of being without worry or responsibility
mls;a ,aster's degree in library science
lycanthropy;(folklore) the magical ability of a person to assume the characteristics of a wolf
spontaneousness;the quality of being spontaneous and coming from natural feelings without constraint. 'the spontaneity of his laughter'
cacophony;loud confusing disagreeable sounds
liveness;having animal life as distinguished from plant life: 'full of life'
evasiveness;deliberate vagueness or ambiguity
unfitness;the condition of not being suitable. 'the judges agreed on his unfirness for the appointment'
civic spirit;pride in your city
dimness;the property of lacking brilliance
smuttiness;obscenity in speech or writing
directionality;the property of a microphone or antenna of being more sensitive in one direction than in another
good will;a disposition to kindness and compassion. benign good will: 'the victor's grace in treating the vanquished'
mutual induction;property whereby an electromotive force is induced in a circuit by variation of current in a neighboring circuit
pull;special advantage or influence. 'the chairman's nephew has a lot of pull'
smoothness;a texture without roughness. smooth to the touch
recourse;something or someone turned to for assistance or security: 'his only recourse was the police'. 'took refuge in lying'
powder blue;a dusty pale blue color
orangeness;any of a range of colors between red and yellow
righteousness;adhering to moral principles
indenture;the space left between the margin and the start of an indented line
pickup;the attribute of being capable of rapid acceleration. 'his car has a lot of pickup'
theism;the doctrine or belief in the existence of a god or gods
thinness;the property of having little body fat
weightlessness;the property of being comparatively small in weight. 'the lightness of balsa wood'
greed;excessive desire to acquire or possess more (esp material wealth) than one needs or deserves
kindness;the quality of being warm-hearted and considerate and humane and sympathetic
avariciousness;extreme greed for material wealth
vanishing point;the appearance of a point on the horizon at which parallel lines converge
cattiness;malevolence by virtue of being malicious or spiteful or nasty
monetary value;the property of having material worth (often indicated by the amount of money something would bring if sold): 'the fluctuating monetary value of gold and silver'. 'he puts a high price on his services'. 'he couldn't calculate the cost of the collection'
probability;a measure of how likely it is that some event will occur. 'what is the probability of rain?'. 'we have a good chance of winning'
repose;a disposition free from stress or emotion
incurability;incapability of being altered in disposition or habits: 'the incurability of his optimism'
self will;control of one's behavior
artium magister;a master's degree in arts and sciences
veto;the power or right to prohibit or reject a proposed or intended act esp the power of a chief executive to reject a bill passed by the legislature
configuration;any spatial attribute (especially as defined by outline). 'he could barely make out their shapes through the smoke'
rationalness;the quality of being consistent with or based on logic
impermanency;the property of not existing for indefinitely long durations
disk shape;the roundness of a 2-dimensional figure
coarseness;the quality of being composed of relatively large particles
indulgence;a disposition to yield to the wishes of someone. 'too much indulgence spoils a child'
fortitude;strength of mind that enables one to endure adversity with courage
ectomorphy;slender, weak, and lightweight
lovingness;a quality proceeding from feelings of affection or love
bonhomie;a disposition to be friendly and approachable (easy to talk to)
abstention;the trait of abstaining (especially from alcohol)
price;the property of having material worth (often indicated by the amount of money something would bring if sold): 'the fluctuating monetary value of gold and silver'. 'he puts a high price on his services'. 'he couldn't calculate the cost of the collection'
new phase of the moon;the time at which the moon appears as a narrow waxing crescent
smoothness;the quality of being free from errors or interruptions
practicableness;the quality of being usable
jaggedness;something irregular like a bump or crack in a smooth surface
llm;an advanced law degree
steadfastness;loyalty in the face of trouble and difficulty
praiseworthiness;the quality of being worthy of praise
fertility;the property of producing abundantly and sustaining growth. 'he praised the richness of the soil'
sociality;the tendency to associate with others and to form social groups: 'mammals as a class are not strong on sociality'
artlessness;ingenuousness by virtue of being free from artful deceit
discolouration;a soiled or discolored appearance. 'the wine left a dark stain'
dreadfulness;a quality of extreme unpleasantness
salmon pink;a shade of pink tinged with yellow
purplish red;a red with a tinge of purple
illiberality;a disposition not to be liberal (generous) with money
analyticity;the property of being analytic
abruptness;an abrupt discourteous manner
stuntedness;smallness of stature
leniency;a disposition to yield to the wishes of someone. 'too much indulgence spoils a child'
doctor of dental surgery;a doctor's degree in dental surgery
jurisdiction;(law) the right and power to interpret and apply the law: 'courts having jurisdiction in this district'
surfeit;the quality of being so overabundant that prices fall
retentiveness;the property of retaining possessions that have been acquired
unrestraint;the quality of lacking restraint
continuousness;the quality of something that continues without end or interruption
quality;"an essential and distinguishing attribute of something or someone. 'the quality of mercy is not strained'--shakespeare"
acuteness;the quality of having a sharp edge or point
good part;a place of especial strength
modus vivendi;a manner of living that reflects the person's values and attitudes
dangerousness;the quality of not being safe
strength;physical energy or intensity: 'he hit with all the force he could muster'. 'it was destroyed by the strength of the gale'. 'a government has not the vitality and forcefulness of a living man'
lukewarmness;lack of passion, force or animation
fleetness;rapidity of movement: 'fleetness of foot'
assuredness;great coolness and composure under strain. 'keep your cool'
obtuseness;the quality of lacking a sharp edge or point
propriety;correct or appropriate behavior
manginess;a lack of elegance as a consequence of wearing threadbare or dirty clothing
buxomness;the bodily property of being attractively plump and vigorous and (of women) full bosomed
abrasiveness;the roughness of a substance that causes abrasions
fraudulence;the quality of being fraudulent
steel blue;a grayish blue color
virtu;artistic quality
hardness;devoid of passion or feeling
taste property;a property appreciated via the sense of taste
cold;the absence of heat. 'the coldness made our breath visible'. 'come in out of the cold'
pink;a light shade of red
gaucheness;an impolite manner that is vulgar and lacking tact or refinement. 'the whole town was famous for its crudeness'
sense of humor;the trait of appreciating (and being able to express) the humorous. 'she didn't appreciate my humor.' 'you can't survive in the army without a sense of humor'
sullenness;a sullen moody resentful disposition
villainousness;the quality of evil by virtue of villainous behavior
shortage;the property of being an amount by which something is less than expected or required
high;a lofty level or position or degree: 'summer temperatures reached an all-time high'
backbone;(informal) fortitude. 'he didn't have the guts to try it'
unacceptableness;unsatisfactoriness by virtue of not conforming to approved standards
mfa;a master's degree in fine arts
largesse;extremely liberal generosity of spirit
nattiness;stylishness as evidenced by a smart appearance
dutch courage;courage resulting from intoxication
generousness;the trait of being willing to give your money or time
associability;the capability of being easily associated or joined or connected in thought
nerve;impudent aggressiveness. 'i couldn't believe her boldness'. 'he had the effrontery to question my honesty'
volatility;being easily excited
achilles;a seemingly small but actual mortal weakness
fearfulness;the trait of being afraid
faineance;the trait of being idle out of a reluctance to work
unit character;(genetics) a character inherited on an all-or-none basis and dependent on the presence of a single gene
companionableness;suitability to be a companion
indefiniteness;the quality of being vague and poorly defined
womanishness;the trait of being effeminate (derogatory of a man)
lethality;the quality of being deadly
nasality;a quality of the voice that is produced by nasal resonators
quiet;the absence of sound. 'he needed silence in order to sleep'. 'the street was quiet'
third dimension;the dimension whereby a solid object differs from a two-dimensional drawing of it
vigor;an exertion of force. 'he plays tennis with great energy'
loathsomeness;the quality of being disgusting to the senses or emotions
revealed religion;a religion founded primarily on the revelations of god to humankind
planeness;the property of having two dimensions
intensity;high level or degree. the property of being intense
frugalness;prudence in avoiding waste
ambitiousness;a strong drive for success
insubordination;defiance of authority
newsworthiness;the quality of being sufficiently interesting to be reported in news bulletins. 'the judge conceded the newsworthiness of the trial'. 'he is no longer news in the fashion world'
reluctivity;(physics) the resistance of a material to the establishment of a magnetic field in it
unsightliness;ugliness that is unpleasant to look at
contemporaneity;the quality of being current or of the present: 'a shopping mall would instill a spirit of modernity into this village'
obduracy;resoluteness by virtue of being unyielding and inflexible
shortness;the property of being of short spatial extent
body;the property of holding together and retaining its shape. 'when the dough has enough consistency it is ready to bake'
alternation;being regularly exchangeable
skin colour;the coloring of a person's face
incremental cost;the increase or decrease in costs as a result of one more or one less unit of output
stain;a soiled or discolored appearance. 'the wine left a dark stain'
longness;spatial extent
foresightedness;providence by virtue of planning prudently for the future
impenitence;the trait of refusing to repent
land area;an area of ground used for some particular purpose (such as building or farming). 'he wanted some acreage to build on'
selfsameness;the quality of being identical with itself
passiveness;the trait of remaining inactive. a lack of initiative
power hunger;a drive to acquire power
unobtrusiveness;the quality of not sticking out in an unwelcome way
precipitation;an unexpected acceleration or hastening: 'he is responsible for the precipitation of his own demise'
stretchiness;the capacity for being stretched
fault;the quality of being faulty or inadequate. 'they discussed the merits and demerits of her novel'
density;the amount per unit size
distinctiveness;utter dissimilarity
friendliness;a friendly disposition
isomorphism;(biology) similarity of form or shape or structure
composition;the way in which someone or something is composed
lustre;a quality that outshines the usual
address;social skill
runniness;the property of flowing easily
obsessivity;extreme compulsiveness
peevishness;a disposition to exhibit uncontrolled anger. 'his temper was well known to all his employees'
slightness;smallness of stature
excitability;being easily excited
use;what something is used for. 'the function of an auger is to bore holes'. 'ballet is beautiful but what use is it?'
the sublime;nobility in thought or feeling or style
cyclicity;the quality of recurring at intervals
profit;the advantageous quality of being beneficial
conflict;an incompatibility of dates or events. 'he noticed a conflict in the dates of the two meetings'
chill;coldness due to a cold environment
sense of purpose;the quality of having a definite purpose
adiposeness;having the property of containing fat. 'he recommended exercise to reduce my adiposity'
pessimism;a general disposition to look on the dark side and to expect the worst in all things
penuriousness;a disposition to be niggardly with money
serious mindedness;the trait of being serious. 'a lack of solemnity is not necessarily a lack of seriousness'- robert rice
roughness;an unpolished unrefined quality. 'the crudeness of frontier dwellings depressed her'
greatness;the property possessed by something or someone of outstanding importance
colour;a visual attribute of things that results from the light they emit or transmit or reflect. 'white is the coolest summer color'
squareness;the property of being shaped like a square
artium baccalaurens;a bachelor's degree in arts and sciences
incontrovertibility;the quality of being undeniable and not worth arguing about
changelessness;the quality of being unchangeable. having a marked tendency to remain unchanged
command;availability for use. 'the materials at the command of the potters grew'
recentness;a time immediately before the present
slouch;a stooping carriage in standing and walking
blot;a blemish made by dirt. 'he had a smudge on his cheek'
eightvo;the size of a book whose pages are made by folding a sheet of paper three times to form eight leaves
savageness;the trait of extreme cruelty
bounds;the greatest possible degree of something: 'what he did was beyond the bounds of acceptable behavior'. 'to the limit of his ability'
slick;a slippery smoothness. 'he could feel the slickness of the tiller'
puritanism;strictness and austerity in conduct and religion
number;(informal) a clothing measurement: 'a number 13 shoe'
impishness;the trait of behaving like an imp
conformance;correspondence in form or appearance
scrape;an indication of damage
chauvinism;fanatical patriotism
acoustic power;the physical intensity of sound
sound pressure level;the physical intensity of sound
forte;an asset of special worth or utility. 'cooking is his forte'
impulsiveness;the trait of acting suddenly on impulse without reflection
substitutability;exchangeability by virtue of being replaceable
earnestness;the trait of being serious. 'a lack of solemnity is not necessarily a lack of seriousness'- robert rice
windage;exposure to the wind (as the exposed part of a vessel's hull which is responsible for wind resistance)
unfaithfulness;the quality of being unfaithful
strength;the power to induce the taking of a course of action or the embracing of a point of view by means of argument or entreaty. 'the strength of his argument settled the matter'
phenotype;the constitution of an organism as determined by the interaction of its genetic constitution and the environment
wiggliness;a jerky back and forth kind of mobility. 'he walked with the wiggliness of a child on high heels'
lividity;unnatural lack of color in the skin (as from bruising or sickness or emotional distress)
murderousness;cruelty evidence by a capability to commit murder
wanness;unnatural lack of color in the skin (as from bruising or sickness or emotional distress)
punctiliousness;strict attention to minute details
illogic;invalid or incorrect reasoning
elaborateness;an ornate appearance. being elaborately decorated
freakishness;marked strangeness as a consequence of being abnormal
catholicism;the beliefs and practices of a catholic church
thd;a doctor's degree in theology
evasiveness;intentionally vague or ambiguous
racketiness;characterized by loud and constant noise
strenuosity;intense energy. 'his music is characterized by a happy athleticism'
impertinence;the trait of being rude and impertinent. inclined to take liberties
nowness;the quality of being the present: 'a study of the pastness of the present and...of the presentness of the past'- r.e.spiller
sapidity;a pleasant flavor
piggishness;an excessive desire for food
brazenness;behavior marked by a bold defiance of the proprieties and lack of shame
imperativeness;urgently demanding attention. 'the insistence of their hunger'. 'he pressed his demand with considerable instancy'
sound reflection;the persistence of a sound after its source has stopped
chirpiness;cheerful and lively
complication;puzzling complexity
pathos;a quality that arouses emotions (especially pity or sorrow). 'the film captured all the pathos of their situation'
harmony;an agreeable sound property
curability;capability of being cured or healed
dphil;a british doctorate
prussian blue;a dark greenish-blue color
earmark;a distinctive characteristic or attribute
womanliness;the trait of being womanly. having the characteristics of an adult female
nuisance value;the quality of an embarrassing situation. 'he sensed the awkwardness of his proposal'
delicacy;the quality of being beautiful and delicate in appearance. 'the daintiness of her touch'. 'the fineness of her features'
precipitance;the quality of happening with headlong haste or without warning
excitableness;being easily excited
balkiness;likely to stop abruptly and unexpectedly
high spiritedness;exuberant liveliness
perniciousness;grave harmfulness or deadliness
refulgency;the quality of being bright and sending out rays of light
hotness;a hot spiciness
mercy;a disposition to be kind and forgiving. 'in those days a wife had to depend on the mercifulness of her husband'
decision;the trait of resoluteness as evidenced by firmness of character or purpose. 'a man of unusual decisiveness'
desirability;the quality of being worthy of desiring
form;a particular mode in which something is manifested. 'his resentment took the form of extreme hostility'
laziness;inactivity resulting from a dislike of work
incorruption;characterized by integrity or probity
macumba;a brazilian religious cult of african origin. combines voodoo elements with singing a chanting and dancing
bottomlessness;the property of being very deep. without limit
plausibleness;apparent validity
finish;a decorative texture or appearance of a surface. 'the boat had a metallic finish'
progressivity;advancement toward better conditions or policies or methods
torpidness;inactivity resulting from torpidity and lack of vigor or energy
regular recurrence;recurring at regular intervals. 'the rhythm of the seasons'
sternness;uncompromising resolution
avarice;extreme greed for material wealth
force;(of a law) having legal validity. 'the law is still in effect'
extraction;properties attributable to your ancestry. 'he comes from good origins'
awkwardness;the quality of an embarrassing situation. 'he sensed the awkwardness of his proposal'
lightness;the visual effect of illumination on objects or scenes as created in pictures. 'he could paint the lightest light and the darkest dark'
charisma;a personal attractiveness that enables you to influence others
respectfulness;courteous regard for people's feelings. 'in deference to your wishes'. 'out of respect for his privacy'
immenseness;unusual largeness in size or extent
commonness;the quality of lacking taste and refinement
delicacy;lightness in movement or manner
statecraft;wisdom in the management of public affairs
plainness;an appearance that is not attractive or beautiful. 'fine clothes could not conceal the girl's homeliness'
attraction;the quality of arousing interest. being attractive or something that attracts. 'her personality held a strange attraction for him'
buddhism;the ethical philosophy of buddha. emphasizes physical and spiritual discipline as a means of liberation from the physical world
jerkiness;the quality of being spasmodic and irregular
book value;the value at which an asset is carried on a balance sheet. equals cost minus accumulated depreciation
infidelity;the quality of being unfaithful
hutzpa;aggressive boldness or unmitigated effrontery. 'he had the audacity to question my decision'
inattentiveness;the trait of not being considerate and thoughtful of others
instability;the quality or attribute of being unstable
gallantry;courtesy towards women
temporal order;arrangement of events in time
clumsiness;the carriage of someone whose movements and posture are ungainly or inelegant
derivation;inherited properties shared with others of your bloodline
outsize;an unusual garment size (especially one that is very large)
immoderation;the quality of being excessive and lacking in moderation
fingerprint;a smudge made by a (dirty) finger
order;a degree in a continuum of size or quantity. 'it was on the order of a mile'. 'an explosion of a low order of magnitude'
monetary standard;the value behind the money in a monetary system
brittleness;firm but easily broken
antecedence;preceding in time
posture;characteristic way of bearing one's body: 'stood with good posture'
karyotype;the appearance of the chromosomal makeup of a somatic cell in an individual or species (including the number and arrangement and size and structure of the chromosomes)
extent;the distance over which something extends
triviality;the quality of being unimportant and petty or frivolous
briefness;the attribute of being brief or fleeting
error;inadvertent incorrectness
austerity;the trait of great self-denial (especially refraining from worldly pleasures)
slipperiness;a slippery smoothness. 'he could feel the slickness of the tiller'
spark;brightness and animation of countenance. 'he had a sparkle in his eye'
enthusiasm;overflowing with enthusiasm
cool;the quality of being cool: 'the cool of early morning'
decisiveness;the trait of resoluteness as evidenced by firmness of character or purpose. 'a man of unusual decisiveness'
evenness;the quality of being balanced
prodigality;the trait of spending extravagantly
immediateness;the quickness of action or occurrence. 'the immediacy of their response'. 'the instancy of modern communication'
intangibility;the quality of being intangible
fuchsia;a dark purple-red. the dye was discovered in 1859, the year of the battle of magenta
viridity;the property of being green. resembling the color of growing grass
undependableness;the trait of not being dependable or reliable
compassion;the humane quality of understanding the suffering of others and wanting to do something about it
jauntiness;stylishness as evidenced by a smart appearance
marginal cost;the increase or decrease in costs as a result of one more or one less unit of output
patness;timely convenience
disparateness;utter dissimilarity
titre;the concentration of a solution as determined by titration
cigarette burn;a burn mark left by a smoldering cigarette. 'a cigarette burn on the edge of the table'
law degree;degree conferred on someone who successfully completes law school
look;the expression on a person's face. 'a sad expression'. 'a look of triumph'. 'an angry face'
airs;affected manners intended to impress others. 'don't put on airs with me'
modesty;formality and propriety of manner
thriftiness;frugality in the expenditure of money or resources. 'the scots are famous for their economy'
tightness;lack of movement or room for movement
gruffness;a throaty harshness
moral excellence;the quality of doing what is right and avoiding what is wrong
unstableness;the quality or attribute of being unstable
leeway;a permissible difference
jejunity;the quality of being vapid and unsophisticated
doctor s degree;one of the highest academic degrees conferred by a university
cardiac insufficiency;inadequate blood flow to the heart muscles. can cause angina pectoris
pigmentation;coloration of living tissues by pigment
shabbiness;a lack of elegance as a consequence of wearing threadbare or dirty clothing
petiteness;the property of being very small in size
invisibleness;the quality of not being perceivable by the eye
beguilement;magnetic personal charm
wickedness;the quality of being wicked
parental quality;a quality appropriate to a parent
subsequentness;following in time
drive;the trait of being highly motivated. 'his drive and energy exhausted his co-workers'
impenetrability;incomprehensibility by virtue of being too dense to understand
chicness;elegance by virtue of being fashionable
system;an ordered manner. orderliness by virtue of being methodical and well organized. 'his compulsive organization was not an endearing quality'. 'we can't do it unless we establish some system around here'
capableness;the quality of being capable -- physically or intellectually or legally. 'he worked to the limits of his capability'
pallet;the range of colour characteristic of a particular artist or painting or school of art'
discretion;the power of making free choices unconstrained by external agencies
team spirit;the spirit of a group that makes the members want the group to succeed
waste;the trait of wasting resources. 'a life characterized by thriftlessness and waste'. 'the wastefulness of missed opportunities'
contrariness;a fussy and eccentric disposition
complexness;the quality of being intricate and compounded. 'he enjoyed the complexity of modern computers'
spectral colour;a color that has hue
hope;grounds for feeling hopeful about the future. 'there is little or no promise that he will recover'
bachelor of music;a bachelor's degree in music
absurdity;a ludicrous folly. 'the crowd laughed at the absurdity of the clown's behavior'
fluidity;the property of flowing easily
analog;something having the property of being analogous to something else
bitterness;a sharp and bitter manner
untimeliness;the quality of occurring at an inconvenient time
fussiness;unnecessary elaborateness in details
focus;maximum clarity or distinctness of an idea. 'the controversy brought clearly into focus an important difference of opinion'
ornateness;an ornate appearance. being elaborately decorated
second class;not the highest rank in a classification
locomotion;the power or ability to move
moroseness;a sullen moody resentful disposition
abstractness;the quality of being considered apart from an specific instance or object
verdure;lush greenness of flourishing vegetation
equivocalness;unclearness by virtue of having more than one meaning
fixedness;the quality of being fixed and unchangeable. 'the fixedness of his gaze upset her'
intrusiveness;aggressiveness as evidenced by intruding--by advancing oneself or one's ideas without invitation
wrongfulness;that which is contrary to the principles of justice or law. 'he feels that you are in the wrong'
assiduity;great diligence
associate;a degree granted by a two-year college on successful completion of the undergraduates course of studies
utmost;the greatestest possible degree. 'he tried his utmost'
reflexion;the ability to reflect beams or rays
sooth;(archaic) truth or reality. 'in sooth'
distastefulness;the quality of being offensive
modernity;the quality of being current or of the present: 'a shopping mall would instill a spirit of modernity into this village'
affinity;a natural attraction or feeling of kinship: 'an affinity for politics'. 'the mysterious affinity between them'. 'james's affinity with sam'
extraordinariness;the quality of being extraordinary and not commonly encountered
bountifulness;the property of copious abundance
steadiness;the quality of being steady or securely and immovably fixed in place
sobriety;moderation in or abstinence from alcohol or drugs
aas;an associate degree in applied science
practicability;the quality of being usable
giddiness;an impulsive scatterbrained manner
tangibility;the quality of being perceivable by touch
looseness;movement or space for movement. 'there was too much play in the steering wheel'
wrongdoing;departure from what is ethically acceptable
pliantness;the quality of being easily adaptable
achromasia;unnatural lack of color in the skin (as from bruising or sickness or emotional distress)
muchness;(archaic) greatness of quantity or measure or extent
solubleness;the property of being dissoluble. 'he measure the dissolubility of sugar in water'
sociability;the relative tendency or disposition to be sociable or associate with one's fellows
sincerity;the quality of being open and truthful. not deceitful or hypocritical. 'his sincerity inspired belief'. 'they demanded some proof of my sincerity'
prudishness;excessive or affected modesty
tartness;a sharp sour taste
compactness;the consistency of a compact solid
point;the property of a shape that tapers to a sharp point
associate in arts;an associate degree in arts
yellow;the quality or state of the chromatic color resembling the hue of sunflowers or ripe lemons
peasanthood;an uncleanliness characteristic of peasants
sang froid;great coolness and composure under strain. 'keep your cool'
superiority complex;an exaggerated estimate of your own value and importance
honor;a woman's virtue or chastity
rectitude;uprightness as a consequence of being honorable and honest
nonabsorbency;the property of not being absorbent
aspiration;a will to succeed
preciseness;the quality of being precise in amount or performance. 'he handled it with the preciseness of an automaton'. 'note the meticulous precision of his measurements'
inconspicuousness;the quality of being not easily seen
stolidness;an indifference to pleasure or pain
liability;the quality of being something that holds you back
specialty;an asset of special worth or utility. 'cooking is his forte'
stickiness;the property of sticking to a surface
caution;the trait of being cautious. being attentive to possible danger. 'a man of caution'
ambidextrousness;the property of being equally skillful with each hand
plasticity;the property of being physically malleable. the property of something that can be worked or hammered or shaped under pressure without breaking
miserliness;total lack of generosity with money
wingspread;distance between the tips of the wings (as of a bird or insect) when fully extended
predominance;the quality of being more noticeable than anything else. 'the predomination of blues gave the painting a quiet tone'
mediateness;the quality of being mediate
meticulousness;strict attention to minute details
superannuation;the property of being out of date and not current
cordiality;a cordial disposition
aloofness;a disposition to be distant and unsympathetic in manner
supernaturalism;the quality of being attributed to power that seems to violate or go beyond natural forces
brand newness;the property of being very new
honourableness;the quality of deserving honor or respect. characterized by honor
splendor;a quality that outshines the usual
command;the power or authority to command: 'an admiral in command'
trustfulness;the trait of trusting. of believing in the honesty and reliability of others. 'the experience destroyed his trust and personal dignity'
grasp;a firm controlling influence. 'he was in the grip of a powerful emotion' or 'a terrible power had her its grasp'
lavishness;the quality possessed by something that is excessively expensive
enormity;the quality of extreme wickedness
coolness;a lack of passion or enthusiasm
tediousness;dullness owing to length or slowness
inconclusiveness;the quality of being inconclusive
moderateness;the property of being moderate in price. 'the store is famous for the reasonableness of its prices'
contractility;the capability or quality of shrinking or contracting esp by muscle fibers and even some other forms of living matter
dumpiness;a short and stout physique
alizarine red;a bright orange-red color produced in cotton cloth with alizarine dye
horridness;a quality of extreme unpleasantness
halo;an indication of radiant light drawn around the head of a saint
boundedness;the quality of being finite
abundance;the property of a more than adequate quantity or supply. 'an age of abundance'
rightfulness;anything in accord with principles of justice. 'he feels he is in the right'. 'the rightfulness of his claim'
whimsicality;the trait of behaving like an imp
newness;the opposite of oldness
master of laws;an advanced law degree
molarity;concentration measured by the number of moles of solute per liter of solvent
nominal value;the value of a security that is set by the company issuing it. unrelated to market value
sweetness;the quality of giving pleasure. 'he was charmed by the sweetness of her manner'. 'the pleasantness of a cool breeze on a hot summer day'
self will;resolute adherence to your own ideas or desires
honour;a woman's virtue or chastity
meagreness;the quality of being meager. 'an exiguity of cloth that would only allow of miniature capes'-george eliot
jet black;a very dark black
cisc;(computer science) a kind of computer architecture that has a large number of instructions hard coded into the cpu chip
unwillingness;the trait of being unwilling. 'his unwillingness to cooperate vetoed every proposal i made'
pity;the humane quality of understanding the suffering of others and wanting to do something about it
cylindricality;the roundness of a 3-dimensional cylinder
obnoxiousness;the quality of being hateful
adorableness;extreme attractiveness
acquisitiveness;strong desire to acquire and possess
urbanity;polished courtesy. elegance of manner
jobbery;corruptness among public officials
viscosity;resistance of a liquid to sheer forces (and hence to flow)
reduced instruction set computing;(computer science) a kind of computer architecture that has a relatively small set of computer instructions that it can perform
carelessness;the quality of not being careful or taking pains
boldness;the trait of being willing to undertake things that involve risk or danger. 'the proposal required great boldness'
achromatism;the visual property of being without color
pretence;an artful or simulated semblance. 'under the guise of friendship he betrayed them'
precedence;preceding in time
glut;the quality of being so overabundant that prices fall
spasticity;the quality of moving or acting in spasms
ungracefulness;an unpleasant carriage
intractableness;the trait of being hard to influence or control
relative atomic mass;(chemistry) the ratio of the atomic mass of an element to half the atomic mass of carbon-12
calmness;steadiness of mind under stress. 'he accepted their problems with composure and she with equanimity'
body build;constitution of the human body
protective coloration;coloration making an organism less visible or attractive to predators
entropy;(communication theory) a numerical measure of the uncertainty of an outcome. 'the signal contained thousands of bits of information'
animality;the physical (or animal) side of a person as opposed to the spirit or intellect
simple mindedness;a lack of penetration or subtlety. 'they took advantage of her simplicity'
thickness;the dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width
precipitancy;the quality of happening with headlong haste or without warning
cost;value measured by what must be given or done or undergone to obtain something: 'the cost in human life was enormous'. 'the price of success is hard work'. 'what price glory?'
chilliness;the property of being moderately cold. 'the chilliness of early morning'
overmuchness;a quantity that is more than what is appropriate. 'four-year-olds have an overabundance of energy'
heathenism;any of various religions other than christianity or judaism or islamism
candour;the quality of being honest and straightforward in attitude and speech
bulk;the property of something that is great in magnitude. 'it is cheaper to buy it in bulk'. 'he received a mass of correspondence'. 'the volume of exports'
perseverence;persistent determination
dimension;magnitude or extent. 'a building of vast proportions'
thinness;relatively small dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width: 'the tenuity of a hair'. 'the thinness of a rope'
turbidity;muddiness created by stirring up sediment or having foreign particles suspended
colour;interest and variety and intensity: 'the puritan period was lacking in color'
stringency;conscientious attention to rules and details
inelegance;the quality of lacking refinement and good taste
deficit;the property of being an amount by which something is less than expected or required
equality;the quality or state of being the same in quantity or measure or value or status
leg;(nautical) the distance traveled by a sailing vessel on a single tack
reserve;formality and propriety of manner
equatability;capability of being equated
fashion;a manner of performance. 'a manner of living'. 'in the characteristic new york style'. 'a way of life'
comaraderie;the quality of affording easy familiarity and sociability
penny pinching;extreme care in spending money. reluctance to spend money unnecessarily
nerves;control of your emotions. 'this kind of tension is not good for my nerves'
masculinity;the properties characteristic of the male sex
alto;the pitch range of the lowest female voice
tantra;doctrine of enlightenment as the realization of the oneness of one's self and the visible world. combines elements of hinduism and paganism including magical and mystical elements like mantras and mudras and erotic rites. especially influential in tibet
treason;disloyalty by virtue of subversive behavior
visual range;(meteorology) distance at which a given standard object can be seen with the unaided eye
permissibility;admissibility as a consequence of being permitted
stubbornness;the trait of being difficult to handle or overcome
stalwartness;the property of being strong and resolute
consistence;the property of holding together and retaining its shape. 'when the dough has enough consistency it is ready to bake'
ropiness;the property of being cohesive and sticky
unregularity;not characterized by a fixed principle or rate. at irregular intervals
ignominiousness;unworthiness meriting public disgrace and dishonor
venereal wart;a small benign wart on or around the genitals and anus
sloth;a disinclination to work or exert yourself
fortuitousness;the quality of happening accidentally and by lucky chance
rascality;the trait of indulging in disreputable pranks
cravenness;mean-spirited cowardice
worldliness;the quality or character of being intellectually sophisticated through cultivation or experience or disillusionment
internationalism;quality of being international in scope: 'he applauded the internationality of scientific terminology'
preciosity;the quality of being fastidious or excessively refined
temperateness;exhibiting restraint imposed on the self. 'an effective temperateness in debate'
bachelor of science;a bachelor's degree in science
balefulness;the quality or nature of being harmful or evil
frankness;the quality of being honest and straightforward in attitude and speech
spinnability;suitability for spinning or capability of being spun (used of textile fibers)
worriment;a difficulty that causes anxiety
respect;courteous regard for people's feelings. 'in deference to your wishes'. 'out of respect for his privacy'
geniality;a disposition to be friendly and approachable (easy to talk to)
place;a blank area. 'write your name in the space provided'
submissiveness;the trait of being willing to yield to the will of another person or a superior force etc.
huskiness;a throaty harshness
power;possession of controlling influence. 'the deterrent power of nuclear weapons'. 'the power of his love saved her'
tyrian purple;a vivid purplish-red color
high anglicanism;a doctrine and practice within the church of england emphasizing the catholic tradition
methodism;the religious beliefs and practices of methodists characterized by concern with social welfare and public morals
vermilion;a variable color that is vivid red but sometimes with an orange tinge
oldness;the opposite of youngness
spirit;an inclination or tendency of a certain kind. 'he had a change of heart'
honorableness;the quality of deserving honor or respect. characterized by honor
fall;a sharp decrease in some quantity: 'a drop of 57 points on the dow jones index'. 'there was a drop in pressure in the pulmonary artery'
bachelor of medicine;(a british degree) a bachelor's degree in medicine
amusd;a doctor's degree in musical arts
tranquility;a disposition free from stress or emotion
order of magnitude;a degree in a continuum of size or quantity. 'it was on the order of a mile'. 'an explosion of a low order of magnitude'
persistence;persistent determination
endemism;nativeness by virtue or originating or occurring naturally (as in a particular place)
anabaptism;belief in: the primacy of the bible. baptism of believers not infants. complete separation of church and state
welfare;something that aids or promotes well-being: 'for the common good'
high mindedness;elevated ideals or conduct. the quality of believing that ideals should be pursued
invincibility;the property being difficult or impossible to defeat
reproducibility;the quality of being reproducible
hirsuteness;excessive hairiness
nativeness;the quality of belonging to or being connected with a certain place or region by virtue of birth or origin
prudence;discretion in practical affairs
attenuation;the property of something that has been weakened or reduced in thickness or density
depravity;moral perversion. impairment of virtue and moral principles: 'the luxury and corruption among the upper classes'. 'moral degeneracy followed intellectual degeneration'. 'its brothels. its opium parlors. its depravity'
bd;a bachelor's degree in religion
fairness;the quality of being good looking and attractive
niceness;the quality of nice
dependableness;the trait of being dependable or reliable
servility;abject or cringing submissiveness
lenience;a disposition to yield to the wishes of someone. 'too much indulgence spoils a child'
simultaneity;happening or existing or done at the same time
warmth;a quality proceeding from feelings of affection or love
vapour density;the density of a gas relative to the density of hydrogen
uncongeniality;a disposition not to be congenial
lustre;the visual property of something that shines with reflected light
negativeness;the disagreeable quality of one who dissents
unsimilarity;the quality of being dissimilar
gnp;former measure of the us economy. the total market value of goods and services produced by all citizens and capital during a given period (usually 1 yr)
acridity;extreme bitterness: 'the acridity of alkali'
formalness;a manner that strictly observes all forms and ceremonies
lethargy;an unusual lack of energy
transferability;the quality of being transferable or exchangeable: 'sterling transferability affords a means of multilateral settlement for....trade between nondollar countries'
withdrawnness;a disposition to be distant and unsympathetic in manner
sublimity;nobility in thought or feeling or style
closeness;characterized by a lack of openness esp about one's actions or purposes
shade;a quality of a given color that differs slightly from a primary color. 'after several trials he mixed the shade of pink that she wanted'
unapproachability;a disposition to be unapproachable. unfriendly and inaccessible
restfulness;the attribute of being restful. 'he longed for the restfulness of home'
lukewarmness;a warmness resembling the temperature of the skin
vitalness;the quality possessed by something that you cannot possibly do without
spirituality;concern with things of the spirit
mediacy;the quality of being mediate
sanctity;the quality of being holy
vapor density;the density of a gas relative to the density of hydrogen
function;what something is used for. 'the function of an auger is to bore holes'. 'ballet is beautiful but what use is it?'
illuminance;the luminous flux incident on a unit area
ferocity;the property of being wild or turbulent. 'the storm's violence'
brevity;the attribute of being brief or fleeting
benignity;the quality of being kind and gentle
level;a position on a scale of intensity or amount or quality: 'a moderate degree of intelligence'. 'a high level of care is required'. 'it is all a matter of degree'
indeterminateness;the quality of being vague and poorly defined
leverage;strategic advantage. power to act effectively: 'relatively small groups can sometimes exert immense political leverage'
tenacity;persistent determination
self centeredness;attempting to get personal recognition for yourself (especially by unacceptable means)
brashness;tasteless showiness
violet;a variable color that lies beyond blue in the spectrum
carefulness;the trait of being cautious. being attentive to possible danger. 'a man of caution'
greatness;unusual largeness in size or extent
atmosphere;a distinctive but intangible quality surrounding a person or thing: 'an atmosphere of defeat pervaded the candidate's headquarters'. 'the place had an aura of romance'
changefulness;the quality of being changeable and variable
sweet;the property of having a pleasantly sweet taste
degeneracy;moral perversion. impairment of virtue and moral principles: 'the luxury and corruption among the upper classes'. 'moral degeneracy followed intellectual degeneration'. 'its brothels. its opium parlors. its depravity'
topography;the configuration of a surface and the relations among its man-made and natural features
clearness;free from obscurity and easy to understand. the comprehensibility of clear expression
recency;a time immediately before the present
fruitlessness;a condition yielding nothing of value
olive green;a color that is lighter and greener than olive
quietness;the property of making no sound
contrariness;deliberate unruliness
irresoluteness;the trait of being irresolute. lacking firmness of purpose
nervousness;a sensitive or highly strung temperament
lodgment;the state or quality of being lodged or fixed even temporarily: 'the lodgment of the balloon in the tree'
doctor of divinity;a doctor's degree in religion
timeliness;being at the right time
cult;a system of religious beliefs and rituals
tawniness;a tawny complexion
closeness;close or warm friendship. 'the absence of fences created a mysterious intimacy in which no one knew privacy'
purpleness;a chromatic color between red and blue
agedness;the property characteristic of old age
iciness;coldness due to a cold environment
muslimism;the monotheistic religion of muslims based on the koran
strenuousness;extreme effortfulness
davy s gray;slightly purplish or bluish dark gray
reconditeness;the quality of being unclear or abstruse and hard to understand
fullness;greatness of volume
inwardness;preoccupation with what concerns human inner nature esp ethical or ideological values: 'socrates' inwardness, integrity, and inquisitiveness'- h.r.finch
pushiness;offensive assertiveness
unwholesomeness;the quality of being unhealthful and generally bad for you
soot black;a very dark black
cruelness;the quality of being cruel and causing tension or annoyance
stoicism;an indifference to pleasure or pain
seasonableness;being at the right time
queerness;a strange attitude or habit
faintness;barely audible
ingeniousness;the property of being ingenious. 'a plot of great ingenuity'. 'the cleverness of its design'
inelasticity;the lack of elasticity
refinement;elegance by virtue of fineness of manner and expression
onerousness;unwelcome burdensome difficulty
concomitance;occurrence or existence together or in connection with one another
vigilance;vigilant attentiveness. 'he keeps a weather eye open for trouble'
weight;the relative importance granted to something. 'his opinion carries great weight'
placidity;a disposition free from stress or emotion
grace;elegance and beauty of movement or expression
separateness;the quality of being not alike. being distinct or different from that otherwise experienced or known
novelty;originality by virtue of being refreshingly novel
decisiveness;the quality of being final or definitely settled: 'the finality of death'
powerlessness;the quality of lacking strength or power. being weak and feeble
flavorlessness;the property of having no flavor
asperity;something hard to endure. 'the asperity of northern winters'
surplus;a quantity much larger than is needed
serenity;a disposition free from stress or emotion
congruence;the quality of agreeing. being suitable and appropriate
pietism;exaggerated or affected piety
space;a blank area. 'write your name in the space provided'
volatility;the trait of being unpredictably irresolute
legibility;writing (print or handwriting) that can be easily read
hypocrisy;insincerity by virtue of pretending to have qualities or beliefs that you do not really have
highlighting;an area of lightness in a picture
antecedency;preceding in time
unsociableness;an unsociable disposition. avoiding friendship or companionship
thoughtlessness;the trait of not thinking carefully before acting
naturalization;the quality of being brought into conformity with nature
matsyendra;(hindu) a religious posture
perceptiveness;the quality of insight and sympathetic understanding
mushiness;(informal) excessive sentimentality
readiness;prompt willingness: 'readiness to continue discussions'
chic;elegance by virtue of being fashionable
med;a master's degree in education
passivity;submission to others or to outside influences
unperceptiveness;the lack of insight and sympathetic understanding
profoundness;intellectual depth. penetrating knowledge. keen insight. etc: 'the depth of my feeling'. 'the profoundness of the silence'
badness;that which is below standard or expectations as of ethics or decency: 'take the bad with the good'
ugliness;qualities that do not give pleasure to the senses
reflectivity;the ability to reflect beams or rays
character;the inherent complex of attributes that determine a persons moral and ethical actions and reactions: 'educaton has for its object the formation of character'- herbert spencer
variableness;the quality of being subject to variation
acerbity;a sharp sour taste
taboo;an inhibition or ban resulting from social custom or emotional aversion
shape;any spatial attribute (especially as defined by outline). 'he could barely make out their shapes through the smoke'
nonsolid colour;(computer science) a color produced by a pattern of differently colored dots that together simulate the desired color
honours degree;(great britain) a university degree with honors
gruesomeness;the quality of being ghastly
dash;distinctive and stylish elegance. 'he wooed her with the confident dash of a cavalry officer'
giantism;excessive largeness of stature
faintheartedness;the trait of lacking boldness and courage
disreputability;dishonorableness by virtue of lacking respectability or a good reputation
stillness;(poetic) tranquil silence. 'the still of the night'
lusciousness;extreme appetizingness
soundness;the quality of being prudent and sensible
bendability;the property of being easily bent without breaking
shintoism;the indigenous polytheistic religion of japan lacking organized teachings. primarily nature and ancestor worship including a chief deity from whom the emperor is believed to be descended
sharpness;the quality of being sharp and clear
curvaceousness;the quality of having a well-rounded body
chumminess;the quality of affording easy familiarity and sociability
darkness;a swarthy complexion
pretentiousness;lack of elegance as a consequence of pomposity
distinction;a distinguishing quality. 'it has the distinction of being the cheapest restaurant in town'
brightness;the quality of being luminous. emitting or reflecting light. 'its luminosity is measured relative to that of our sun'
unpermissiveness;lack of permissiveness or indulgence
overtolerance;too much permissiveness
straightness;trueness of course toward a goal: 'rivaling a hawk in directness of aim'
genotype;the particular alleles at specified loci present in an organism
weak spot;a place of especial vulnerability
jejuneness;the quality of being vapid and unsophisticated
baroqueness;elaborate symmetrical ornamentation
distinctness;the quality of being not alike. being distinct or different from that otherwise experienced or known
cornucopia;the property of being extremely abundant
thinness;a consistency of low viscosity. 'he disliked the thinness of the soup'
quietism;a form of religious mysticism requiring withdrawal from all human effort and passive contemplation of god
forte;(music) with great loudness
inadvertency;the trait of forgetting or ignoring your responsibilities
overbearingness;the trait of being imperious and overbearing
unconscientiousness;the quality of being willing to ignore the dictates of conscience
dithered colour;(computer science) a color produced by a pattern of differently colored dots that together simulate the desired color
pettiness;the quality of being unimportant and petty or frivolous
gruffness;an abrupt discourteous manner
catch;a hidden drawback. 'it sounds good but what's the catch?'
agreeability;a temperamental disposition to be agreeable
grandeur;the quality of being exalted in character or ideals or conduct
radial asymmetry;the absence of symmetry about an axis
defiance;intentionally contemptuous behavior or attitude
indigenousness;nativeness by virtue or originating or occurring naturally (as in a particular place)
pressure;a force that compels. 'the public brought pressure to bear on the government'
spatial property;any property relating to or occupying space
boundlessness;the quality of being infinite. without bound or limit
terribleness;a quality of extreme unpleasantness
self esteem;the quality of being worthy of esteem or respect: 'it was beneath his dignity to cheat'. 'showed his true dignity when under pressure'
behavior;behavioral attributes
admissibility;acceptability by virtue of being admissible
treble;the pitch range of the highest female voice
complection;the coloring of a person's face
edibleness;the property of being fit to eat
adamance;resoluteness by virtue of being unyielding and inflexible
face value;the value of a security that is set by the company issuing it. unrelated to market value
heel;a seemingly small but actual mortal weakness
might;physical strength
wateriness;the property of resembling the viscosity of water
absolute temperature;temperature measured on the absolute scale (the international practical scale of temperature)
eligibility;the quality or state of being eligible: 'eligibility of a candidate for office'. 'eligibility for a loan'
forwardness;offensive assertiveness
self regard;the quality of being worthy of esteem or respect: 'it was beneath his dignity to cheat'. 'showed his true dignity when under pressure'
cloudiness;the quality of being cloudy
figure;the property possessed by a sum or total or indefinite quantity of units or individuals. 'he had a number of chores to do'. 'the number of parameters is small'. 'the figure was about a thousand'
constancy;faithfulness in personal attachment (especially sexual fidelity)
superiority;displaying a sense of being better than others. 'he hated the white man's superiority and condecension'
face;impudent aggressiveness. 'i couldn't believe her boldness'. 'he had the effrontery to question my honesty'
obstinacy;the trait of being difficult to handle or overcome
zest;a tart spiciness
unity;the quality of being united into one
reliability;the trait of being dependable or reliable
disadvantage;the quality of having an inferior or less favorable position
ultranationalism;fanatical patriotism
common good;the good of a community
wingspread;linear distance between the extremities of an airfoil
inanimateness;not having life
air;a distinctive manner. 'an air of mystery'
monotheism;belief in a single god
seniority;the property of being long-lived
convention;orthodoxy as a consequence of being conventional
correspondence;(mathematics) an attribute of a shape. exact correspondence of form on opposite sides of a dividing line or plane
frightfulness;the quality of being frightful
ambition;a strong drive for success
piety;righteousness by virtue of being pious
unnoticeableness;the quality of being not easily noticed
snobbery;the trait of condescending to those of lower social status
tactfulness;consideration in dealing with others and avoiding giving offence
caliber;diameter of a tube or gun barrel
gloss;the property of being smooth and shiny
rightness;conformity to fact or truth
comparability;qualities that are comparable. 'no comparison between the two books'. 'beyond compare'
face;the general outward appearance of something. 'the face of the city is changing'
ancestry;inherited properties shared with others of your bloodline
immediateness;lack of an intervening or mediating agency: 'the immediacy of television coverage'
od;a doctor's degree in optometry
femininity;the trait of behaving in ways considered typical for women
grayness;a neutral achromatic color midway between while and black
discomposure;a temperament that is perturbed and lacking in composure
colour;the timbre of a musical sound. 'the recording fails to capture the true color of the original music'
industriousness;persevering determination to perform a task. 'his diligence won him quick promotions'. 'frugality and industry are still regarded as virtues'
ineptness;the quality of having the wrong properties for a specific purpose
shivaism;worship of shiva one of the 3 chief gods of the hindu pantheon
raggedness;shabbiness by virtue of being in rags
crookedness;the quality of being deceitful and underhanded
linearity;the property of having one dimension
timing;the time when something happens
self interest;attempting to get personal recognition for yourself (especially by unacceptable means)
adventurism;recklessness in politics or foreign affairs
swashbuckling;flamboyantly reckless and boastful behavior
effortfulness;the quality of requiring deliberate effort
solitariness;the disposition to enjoy being alone
condyloma acuminatum;a small benign wart on or around the genitals and anus
golden mean;the middle between extremes
improvidence;a lack of prudence and care by someone in the management of resources
wantonness;the trait of lacking restraint or control. freedom from inhibition or worry. 'she danced with abandon'
surety;something clearly established
tactile property;a property perceived by touch
discernment;the trait of judging wisely and objectively. 'a man of discenment'
hoggishness;an excessive desire for food
mindlessness;total lack of meaning or ideas
honour;the quality of being honorable and having a good name. 'a man of honor'
body odor;malodourousness resulting from a failure to bathe
composure;steadiness of mind under stress. 'he accepted their problems with composure and she with equanimity'
mahayana;one of two great schools of buddhist doctrine emphasizing a common search for universal salvation especially through faith alone. chiefly in china. tibet. japan
disproportion;lack of proportion. imbalance among the parts of something
staunchness;loyalty in the face of trouble and difficulty
swank;elegance by virtue of being fashionable
pace;the relative speed of progress or change. 'he lived at a fast pace'. 'he works at a great rate'. 'the pace of events accelerated'
polysemy;the ambiguity of an individual word or phrase that can be used (in different contexts) to express two or more different meanings
streak;a distinctive characteristic. 'he has a stubborn streak'. 'a streak of wildness'
helpfulness;the property of providing useful assistance
prettiness;the quality of being appealing in a delicate or graceful way (of a girl or young woman)
pastness;the quality of being past
puckishness;the trait of behaving like an imp
slenderness;relatively small dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width: 'the tenuity of a hair'. 'the thinness of a rope'
longanimity;good-natured tolerance of delay or incompetence
greenish yellow;a shade of yellow tinged with green
negativity;characterized by habitual skepticism and a tendency to deny or oppose or resist suggestions or commands
digestibleness;the property of being easy to digest
dithered color;(computer science) a color produced by a pattern of differently colored dots that together simulate the desired color
fractiousness;the trait of being prone to disobedience and lack of discipline
sensitiveness;the ability to respond to affective changes in your interpersonal environment
saktism;worship of shakti as the wife of shiva
firmness;the quality of being steady or securely and immovably fixed in place
magenta;a dark purple-red. the dye was discovered in 1859, the year of the battle of magenta
candidness;the quality of being honest and straightforward in attitude and speech
wholesomeness;the quality of being beneficial and generally good for you
bloodline;ancestry of a purebred animal
punctuality;the quality or habit of adhering to an appointed time
presumptuousness;audacious (even arrogant) behavior that you have no right to. 'he despised them for their presumptuousness'
lutheranism;teachings of martin luther emphasizing the cardinal doctrine of justification by faith alone
pretension;the quality of being pretentious (creating a false appearance of great importance or worth)
paternal quality;the benignity and protectiveness of or befitting a father: 'the gentleness and fatherliness of the strange old man eased her fears'
breeding;elegance by virtue of fineness of manner and expression
bareness;an extreme lack of furnishings or ornamentation
conviviality;a jovial nature
warmth;the quality of having a moderate degree of heat: 'an agreeable warmth in the house'
posteriority;following in time
gluttony;habitual eating to excess
abls;a bachelor's degree in library science
ma;a master's degree in arts and sciences
inferiority;the quality of being a competitive disadvantage
eccentricity;strange and unconventional behavior
heat;intense passion or emotion
natural virtue;(scholasticism) one of the four virtues (prudence and justice and fortitude and temperance) derived from nature
measurement;magnitude as determined by measurement or calculation
disloyalty;the quality of being disloyal
virility;the property of being capable of copulation and procreation
resplendence;brilliant radiant beauty. 'the glory of the sunrise'
unpleasantness;the quality of giving displeasure. 'the recent unpleasantness of the weather'
phase;(astronomy) the particular appearance of a body's state of illumination (especially one of the recurring shapes of the part of earth's moon that is illuminated by the sun). 'the full phase of the moon'
chest tone;the lower ranges of the voice in speaking or singing
proneness;being disposed to do something. 'accident proneness'
diam;the length of a straight line passing through the center of a circle and connecting two points on the circumference
shallowness;lack of depth of knowledge or thought or feeling
pertness;inappropriate playfulness
alterability;the quality of being alterable
coarseness;looseness or roughness in texture (as of cloth)
alienism;the quality of being alien
greenness;lush greenness of flourishing vegetation
stubbiness;the property of being short and broad
dreariness;extreme dullness
immutability;the quality of being incapable of mutation
cryptic coloration;coloring that conceals or disguises an animal's shape
courage;a quality of spirit that enables you to face danger of pain without showing fear
wiseness;the quality of being prudent and sensible
merit;any admirable quality or attribute. 'work of great merit'
vapidity;the quality of being vapid and unsophisticated
freezing point;the temperature below which a liquid turns into a solid
favorable position;the quality of being a competitive advantage
liquidity;being in cash or easily convertible to cash
master in public affairs;a master's degree in questions of public concern
garrulity;the quality of being wordy and talkative
blank space;a blank area. 'write your name in the space provided'
pearl;a shade of white the color of bleached bones
insensibility;devoid of passion or feeling
slenderness;the property of an attractively thin person
angular momentum;the product of the momentum of a rotating body and its distance from the axis of rotation. 'any rotating body has an angular momentum about its center of mass'. 'angular momentum makes the world go round'
blandness;the trait of exhibiting no personal embarrassment or concern. 'the blandness of his confession enraged the judge'
ladylikeness;behavior befitting a lady
countenance;the appearance conveyed by a person's face. 'a pleasant countenance'. 'a stern visage'
order arms;a position in the manual of arms. the rifle is held vertically on the right side with the butt on the ground. often used as a command
bounciness;the quality of a substance that is able to rebound
inactivity;a disposition to remain inactive or inert. 'he had to overcome his inertia and get back to work'
secretiveness;characterized by a lack of openness esp about one's actions or purposes
reluctance;a certain degree of unwillingness. 'a reluctance to commit himself'. 'after some hesitation he agreed'
vodoun;a religious cult practiced chiefly in caribbean countries (especially haiti). involves witchcraft and animistic deities
coolness;the property of being moderately cold. 'the chilliness of early morning'
dishonor;lacking honor or integrity
white heat;the hotness of something heated until it turns white
obsessiveness;extreme compulsiveness
validity;the quality of being logically valid
firmness;the trait of being resolute. firmness of purpose. 'his resoluteness carried him through the battle'. 'it was his unshakeable resolution to finish the work'
determination;the quality of being determined to do or achieve something. 'his determination showed in his every movement'. 'he is a man of purpose'
mode;a manner of performance. 'a manner of living'. 'in the characteristic new york style'. 'a way of life'
skin condition;texture and appearance of the skin of the face
semidiameter;the apparent radius of a celestial body when viewed as a disc from the earth
ponderousness;the property of being large in mass
isometry;equality of measure
strangeness;the quality of being alien or not native: 'the strangeness of a foreigner'
radius of curvature;the radius of the circle of curvature. the absolute value of the reciprocal of the curvature of a curve at a given point
excess;a quantity much larger than is needed
shortsightedness;a lack of prudence and care by someone in the management of resources
movability;the quality of being movable. capable of being moved or rearranged
apatetic coloration;coloring serving to as natural camouflage
progressiveness;advancement toward better conditions or policies or methods
four horsemen;(book of revelations) the four evils that will come at the end of the world: conquest rides a white horse. war a red horse. famine a black horse. plague a pale horse
brink;the limit beyond which something happens or changes. 'on the verge of tears'. 'on the brink of bankruptcy'
jocoseness;the trait of merry joking
inner resources;a resource provided by the mind or one's personal capabilities: 'to have resource against loneliness'
insubstantiality;lacking substance or reality
familiarity;close or warm friendship. 'the absence of fences created a mysterious intimacy in which no one knew privacy'
narcism;an exceptional interest in and admiration for yourself
unbecomingness;the quality of being unbecoming
munificence;extremely liberal generosity of spirit
variance;the quality of being subject to variation
coal black;a very dark black
feebleness;the quality of lacking intensity or substance. 'a shrill yet sweet tenuity of voice'- nathaniel hawthorne
nicety;conformity with some esthetic standard of correctness or propriety. 'it was performed with justness and beauty'
inexpensiveness;the quality of being affordable
sagaciousness;the mental ability to form an opinion by distinguishing and evaluating
momentum;an impelling force or strength. 'the car's momentum carried it off the road'
associate in nursing;an associate degree in nursing
inexactness;the quality of being inaccurate and having errors
colour;outward or token appearance or form. 'he tried to give his actions a semblance of authenticity'. 'the situation soon took on a different color'
moderateness;quality of being moderate and avoiding extremes
light;the quality of being luminous. emitting or reflecting light. 'its luminosity is measured relative to that of our sun'
insistency;urgently demanding attention. 'the insistence of their hunger'. 'he pressed his demand with considerable instancy'
even spacing;regularity of spacing
feeler;sensitivity similar to that of a receptor organ. 'he had a special antenna for public relations'
mien;dignified manner or conduct
glory;brilliant radiant beauty. 'the glory of the sunrise'
promptness;the characteristic of doing things without delay
doctor of education;a doctor's degree in education
chutzpah;aggressive boldness or unmitigated effrontery. 'he had the audacity to question my decision'
niceness;the quality of being difficult to detect or analyze. 'you had to admire the subtlety of the distinctions he drew'
coarseness;the quality of lacking taste and refinement
stateliness;impressiveness in scale or proportion
congeniality;compatibility between persons
awkwardness;trouble in carrying or managing caused by bulk or shape: 'the movers cursed the unwieldiness of the big piano'
concaveness;the property possessed by a concave shape
harmoniousness;compatibility in opinion and action
pellucidness;passing light without diffusion or distortion
truncation;the property of being truncated or short
ded;a doctor's degree in education
deportment;behavioral attributes
size;the property resulting from being one of a series of graduated measurements (as of clothing). 'he wears a size 13 shoe'
self love;an exceptional interest in and admiration for yourself
commitedness;the trait of sincere and steadfast fixity of purpose. 'a man of energy and commitment'
meanness;the quality of being deliberately mean
crack;a mark left after a small piece has been chopped or broken off of something
ingenuousness;the quality of innocent naivete
avail;a means of serving. 'of no avail'. 'there's no help for it'
authority;the power to exercise authoritative or dominating control or influence over. 'he has the authority to issue warrants'
resistance;(psychiatry) an unwillingness to bring repressed feelings into conscious awareness
dilatoriness;slowness as a consequence of not getting around to it
discretion;the trait of judging wisely and objectively. 'a man of discenment'
bass;the lowest part of the musical range
starkness;an extreme lack of furnishings or ornamentation
claret;a dark purplish red
smarminess;smug self-serving earnestness
passport;any quality or characteristic that gains a person acceptance or admission. 'his wealth was not a passport into the exclusive circles of society'
scrappiness;the trait of being scrappy and pugnacious
taciturnity;the trait of being uncommunicative. not volunteering anything more than necessary
invalidity;illogicality as a consequence of having a conclusion that does not follow from the premisses
effectualness;the power to be effective
space;one of the areas between or below or above the lines of a musical staff. 'the spaces are the notes f-a-c-e'
metier;an asset of special worth or utility. 'cooking is his forte'
wise;a way of doing or being: 'in no wise'. 'in this wise'
alabaster;a very light white
exactness;the quality of being exact. 'he demanded exactness in all details'. 'a man of great exactitude'
loudness;the magnitude of sound (usually in a specified direction). 'the kids played their music at full volume'
hermaphroditism;showing characteristics of both sexes
reserve;the trait of being uncommunicative. not volunteering anything more than necessary
spectrum;broad range of related values or qualities or ideas or activities
beauteousness;the quality of being good looking and attractive
inheritance;attributes acquired via biological heredity
astringency;the ability to contract or draw together soft body tissues to check blood flow or restrict secretion of fluids
concentration;the strength of a solution. number of molecules of a substance in a given volume (expressed as moles/cubic meter)
face value;the apparent worth as opposed to the real worth
ineffectiveness;lacking the power to be effective
artistic style;the style of a particular artist or school or movement. 'an imaginative orchestral idiom'
sweetness and light;a mild reasonableness. 'when he learned who i was he became all sweetness and light'
morale;the spirit of a group that makes the members want the group to succeed
unambiguity;clarity achieved by the avoidance of ambiguity
invariance;the quality of being resistant to variation
evilness;the quality of being morally wrong in principle or practice: 'attempts to explain the origin of evil in the world'
monasticism;asceticism practiced in a monastery
unmanliness;the trait of being effeminate (derogatory of a man)
severity;excessive sternness. 'the severity of his punishment was inhuman'
wine;a red as dark as red wine
ductility;the malleability of something that can be drawing into wires or hammered into thin sheets
dextrality;preference for using the right hand
overemphasis;too much emphasis
correspondence;compatibility of observations. 'there was no agreement between theory and measurment'. 'the results of two tests were in correspondence'
severity;something hard to endure. 'the asperity of northern winters'
suddenness;the quality of happening with headlong haste or without warning
topaz;a light brown
intolerance;impatience with annoyances: 'his intolerance of interruptions'
freshness;the trait of being rude and impertinent. inclined to take liberties
chromaticity;the quality of a color as determined by its dominant wavelength
inerrancy;(christianity) exemption from error. 'biblical inerrancy'
oomph;a activeness of an energetic personality
illicitness;the quality of not conforming strictly to law
noxiousness;the quality of being noxious
chronological sequence;a following of one thing after another in time. 'the doctor saw a sequence of patients'
correctness;conformity to social expectations
immutableness;the quality of being incapable of mutation
whip hand;position of advantage and control
deliberation;a rate demonstrating an absence of haste or hurry
boorishness;the manner of a rude or insensitive person
celerity;a rate that is rapid
audacity;fearless daring
carefulness;the quality of being careful and painstaking. 'i admired the carefulness of his work'
majesty;impressiveness in scale or proportion
way;a manner of performance. 'a manner of living'. 'in the characteristic new york style'. 'a way of life'
somberness;a manner that is serious and solemn
incaution;the trait of forgetting or ignoring possible danger
mark of cain;the mark that god set upon cain now refers to a person's sinful nature
self gratification;indiscipline with regard to sensuous pleasures
softness;the property of giving little resistance to pressure
commonness;sharing of common attributes
lordliness;overbearing pride evidenced by a superior manner toward inferiors
curve;the property possessed by the curving of a line or surface
reputability;honorableness by virtue of being respectable and having a good reputation
disposal;the power to use something or someone: 'used all the resources at his disposal'
shrillness;having the timbre of a loud high-pitched sound
cussedness;mean-spirited disagreeable contrariness
permanency;the property of being able to exist for an indefinite durationthe property of being able to exist for an indefinite duration
fatuity;a ludicrous folly. 'the crowd laughed at the absurdity of the clown's behavior'
acrimony;a sharp and bitter manner
errancy;a tendency to err
adynamia;lack of strength or vigor esp from illness
atrociousness;the quality of being shockingly cruel and inhumane
disdainfulness;the trait of displaying arrogance by patronizing those considered inferior
primness;excessive or affected modesty
gouge;an impression in a surface (as made by a blow)
unsteadiness;the quality of being unsteady--varying and irregular
stability;the quality or attribute of being stable
cogency;the quality of being logically valid
severeness;extreme plainness
conventionality;orthodoxy as a consequence of being conventional
signal level;the amplitude level of the desired signal
temporal property;a property relating to time
desperation;desperate recklessness. 'it was a policy of desperation'
start;advantage gained by an early start as in a race: 'with an hour's start he will be hard to catch'
recentness;the property of having happened or appeared not long ago
meaningfulness;the quality of having great value or significance
spiciness;the property of being seasoned with spice and so highly flavored
elusiveness;the quality of being difficult to grasp or pin down: 'the author's elusiveness may at times be construed as evasiveness'
impudence;the trait of being rude and impertinent. inclined to take liberties
incandescence;light from heat
knight errantry;quixotic (romantic and impractical) behavior
unhelpfulness;an inability to be helpful
envelope;the maximum operating capability of a system. 'test pilots try to push the envelope'
pudginess;the property of having a plump and round body
emphasis;intensity or forcefulness of expression: 'the vehemence of his denial' or 'his emphasis on civil rights'
acidity;the sharp taste of something acidic (as vinegar or lemon juice)
quarto;the size of a book whose pages are made by folding a sheet of paper twice to form four leaves
somatotype;a category of physique
slowness;a rate demonstrating an absence of haste or hurry
whimsey;the trait of acting more from whim or caprice than from reason or judgment
purview;the range of interest or activity that can be anticipated. 'it is beyond the horizon of present knowledge'
bibliomania;preoccupation with the acquisition and possession of books
patriotism;love of country and willingness to sacrifice for it
rarity;noteworthy scarcity
right;anything in accord with principles of justice. 'he feels he is in the right'. 'the rightfulness of his claim'
staginess;an artificial and mannered quality
bumpiness;the texture of a surface that has many bumps
sexual morality;morality with respect to sexual relations
boyishness;being characteristic of a boy
glamor;alluring beauty or charm (often with sex-appeal)
unreality;the quality possessed by something that is unreal
fattiness;having the property of containing fat. 'he recommended exercise to reduce my adiposity'
sliminess;a property resembling or being covered with slime
academicism;orthodoxy of a scholastic variety
rankness;the attribute of having a strong offensive smell
romanticism;an exciting and mysterious quality (as of a heroic time or adventure)
combining weight;the atomic weight of an element that has the same combining capacity as a given weight of another element. the standard is 8 for oxygen
quirk;a strange attitude or habit
lifeblood;an essential or life-giving force. 'water is the lifeblood of india'
egocentrism;attempting to get personal recognition for yourself (especially by unacceptable means)
verdancy;lush greenness of flourishing vegetation
grace;a disposition to kindness and compassion. benign good will: 'the victor's grace in treating the vanquished'
splotch;an irregularly shaped spot
grip;a firm controlling influence. 'he was in the grip of a powerful emotion' or 'a terrible power had her its grasp'
condescension;the trait of displaying arrogance by patronizing those considered inferior
unpredictability;the trait of being unpredictably irresolute
profaneness;unholiness by virtue of being profane
felicitousness;pleasing and appropriate manner or style esp of expression
severity;used of the degree of something undesirable e.g. pain or weather
convertibility;the quality of being exchangeable (esp the ability to convert a currency into gold or other currencies without restriction)
tardiness;the quality or habit of not adhering to a correct or usual or expected time
sorriness;worthlessness due to insignificance
personal appeal;a personal attractiveness that enables you to influence others
biomass;the total mass of living matter in a given unit area
quantifiability;the quality of being measurable
sm;a master's degree in science
enjoyableness;pleasantness resulting from something that can be enjoyed. 'the enjoyableness of an afternoon at the beach'
rascality;the quality of being a slippery rascal
bone;a shade of white the color of bleached bones
dishonesty;the quality of being dishonest
undiscipline;the trait of lacking discipline
keenness;thinness of edge or fineness of point
lazuline;a light shade of blue
indigo;a blue-violet color
dissimilitude;dissimilarity evidenced by an absence of likeness
dead hand of the past;the oppressive influence of past events of decisions
elan;enthusiastic and assured vigor and liveliness. 'a performance of great elan and sophistication'
rhythmicity;the rhythmic property imparted by the accents and relative durations of notes in a piece of music
spiciness;behavior or language bordering on indelicacy
validity;the quality of having legal force or effectiveness
amity;a cordial disposition
allusiveness;a quality characterized by indirect reference
audibility;quality or fact or degree of being audible or perceptible by the ear
mark;an indication of damage
pliancy;the quality of being easily adaptable
stability;the quality of being free from change or variation
carriage;characteristic way of bearing one's body: 'stood with good posture'
obstinacy;resolute adherence to your own ideas or desires
gross domestic product;measure of the us economy adopted in 1991. the total market values of goods and services by produced by workers and capital within the us borders during a given period (usually 1 yr)
size;the physical magnitude of something (how big it is). 'a wolf is about the size of a large dog'
apparentness;the property of being apparent
fixity;the quality of being fixed in place
optimism;a general disposition to expect the best in all things
fecklessness;worthlessness due to being feeble and ineffectual
otherworldliness;concern with things of the spirit
bulkiness;an unwieldy largeness
legibility;distinctness that makes perception easy
vulgarity;the quality of lacking taste and refinement
identity;exact sameness. 'they shared an identity of interests'
compressibility;the property of being able to occupy less space
unison;two or more sounds or tones at the same pitch or in octaves: 'singing in unison'
straightness;of hair: lack of a tendency to curl
permeableness;the property of something that can be pervaded by a liquid (as by osmosis or diffusion)
skewness;an oblique or slanting asymmetry
outspokenness;the trait of being blunt and outspoken
responsibility;ability or necessity to answer for or be responsible for one's conduct. 'he holds a position of great responsibility'. 'young children on a farm are often given responsibilities'
globosity;the roundness of a 3-dimensional object
crumbliness;excessive breakableness
aloneness;a disposition toward being alone
real gross national product;a version of the gnp that has been adjusted for the effects of inflation
antenna;sensitivity similar to that of a receptor organ. 'he had a special antenna for public relations'
disagreeableness;the quality of being disagreeable. and unpleasant
stypsis;the ability to contract or draw together soft body tissues to check blood flow or restrict secretion of fluids
suavity;smooth and gracious in manner
splendor;the quality of being magnificent or splendid or grand
unevenness;a quality of variability and lack of uniformity
benefit;something that aids or promotes well-being: 'for the common good'
heedfulness;the trait of staying aware of (paying close attention to) your responsibilities
gentleness;mildness of manner or disposition
self acceptance;an acceptance of yourself as you are, warts and all
belligerence;a disposition to fight
spaciousness;spatial largeness (especially inside a building)
shallowness;the quality of lacking physical depth: 'take into account the shallowness at that end of the pool before you dive'
skin color;the coloring of a person's face
highlight;an area of lightness in a picture
light;the visual effect of illumination on objects or scenes as created in pictures. 'he could paint the lightest light and the darkest dark'
cunning;drafty artfulness (especially in deception)
manageability;capable of being managed or controlled
old gold;a dark yellow
comradery;the quality of affording easy familiarity and sociability
charcoal grey;a very dark gray color
resplendency;brilliant radiant beauty. 'the glory of the sunrise'
indispensability;the quality possessed by something that you cannot possibly do without
conformity;correspondence in form or appearance
fickleness;unfaithfulness by virtue of being unreliable or treacherous
frequency response;(electronics) a response depicting the output-to-input ratio of a transducer as a function of frequency
fealty;the loyalty that citizens owe to their country (or subjects to their sovereign)
lissomeness;the gracefulness of a person or animal that is flexible and supple
excess;immoderation as a consequence of going beyond sufficient or permitted limits
animalism;preoccupation with satisfaction of physical drives and appetites
positivism;a quality or state characterized by certainty or acceptance or affirmation
alikeness;similarity in appearance or character or nature between persons or things: 'man created god in his own likeness'
gracility;elegance and beauty of movement or expression
amenableness;the trait of being cooperative
translucency;the quality of allowing light to pass diffusely
facility;a natural effortlessness. 'a happy readiness of conversation'--jane austen
swelled head;an exaggerated opinion of your own importance
obsequiousness;abject or cringing submissiveness
fastidiousness;the trait of being meticulous about matters of taste or style. 'neatness and fastidiousness of dress'
fearlessness;the trait of feeling no fear
unsuitability;the quality of having the wrong properties for a specific purpose
whiteness;the quality or state of the achromatic color of greatest lightness (bearing the least resemblance to black)
toll;value measured by what must be given or done or undergone to obtain something: 'the cost in human life was enormous'. 'the price of success is hard work'. 'what price glory?'
virtue;the quality of doing what is right and avoiding what is wrong
raise;the amount a salary is increased. 'he got a raise'. 'he got a wage hike'
impetuosity;rash impulsiveness
achromatic color;a color lacking hue. white or gray or black
woodgraining;a texture like that of wood
lopsidedness;an oblique or slanting asymmetry
courtliness;elegance suggestive of a royal court
doctor of theology;a doctor's degree in theology
momentousness;utmost importance
curliness;of hair: a tendency to curl
infallibility;the quality of never making an error
repulsiveness;the quality of being disgusting to the senses or emotions
dissolubility;the property of being dissoluble. 'he measure the dissolubility of sugar in water'
improbability;the quality of being improbable
fatality;the quality of being able to cause death or fatal disasters
burdensomeness;unwelcome burdensome difficulty
degree;the seriousness of something (e.g., a burn or crime). 'murder in the second degree'. 'a second degree burn'
bounty;the property of copious abundance
dignity;formality in bearing and appearance: 'he behaved with great dignity'
sedulity;the quality of constantly diligent and attentive
inexpedience;the quality of being unsuited to the end in view
charity;a kindly and lenient attitude toward people
maximum;the greatestest possible degree. 'he tried his utmost'
heinousness;the quality of being shockingly cruel and inhumane
instrumentality;the quality of being instrumental for some purpose
master of education;a master's degree in education
decorativeness;an appearance that serves to decorate and make something more attractive
aimlessness;the quality of lacking any definite purpose
brass;impudent aggressiveness. 'i couldn't believe her boldness'. 'he had the effrontery to question my honesty'
beneficence;the quality of being kind or helpful or generous
methodicalness;the quality of appreciating method and system
niggardness;extreme stinginess
blemish;a mark or flaw that spoils the appearance of something (especially on a person's body)
factualness;the quality of being actual or based on fact. 'the realm of factuality must be distinguished from the realm of imagination'
totality;the quality of being complete and indiscriminate: 'the totality of war and its consequences'. 'the all-embracing totality of the state'
uncouthness;inelegance by virtue of being an uncouth boor
scintillation;the quality of glittering or sparkling brightly
trueness;exactness of adjustment. 'i marveled at the trueness of his aim'
attribute;an abstraction belonging to or characteristic of an entity
luster;a surface coating for ceramics or porcelain
ill will;a hostile (very unfriendly) disposition. 'he could not conceal his hostility'
meq;one-thousandth of an equivalent
texture;the feel of a surface or a fabric. 'the wall had a smooth texture'
immortality;the quality or state of being immortal
complexion;the coloring of a person's face
vicissitude;mutability in life or nature (especially successive alternation from one condition to another)
wilfulness;the trait of being prone to disobedience and lack of discipline
military capability;capability in terms of personnel and materiel. 'we faced an army of great strength'
left handedness;preference for using the left hand
fewness;the quality of being small in number
insufficiency;lack of an adequate quantity or number. 'the inadequacy of unemployment benefits'
painstakingness;the trait of being painstaking and careful
dulness;the quality of lacking interestingness
unvariedness;characterized by an absence of variation
boiling point;being highly angry or excited. ready to boil over. 'after an hour of waiting i was at the boiling point'
patience;good-natured tolerance of delay or incompetence
puce;a color varying from dark purplish brown to dark red
stylishness;elegance by virtue of being fashionable
head start;advantage gained by an early start as in a race: 'with an hour's start he will be hard to catch'
superiority;the quality of being a competitive advantage
plenitude;a full supply. 'there was plenty of food for everyone'
translucence;the quality of allowing light to pass diffusely
peach;a shade of pink tinged with yellow
overkill;the capability to obliterate a target with more weapons (especially nuclear weapons) that are required
antagonism;being an opposing principle or force or factor: 'inherent antagonism of capitalism and socialism'
ab;a bachelor's degree in arts and sciences
lustiness;the property of strong in constitution
tact;consideration in dealing with others and avoiding giving offence
mb;(a british degree) a bachelor's degree in medicine
crotchetiness;a fussy and eccentric disposition
coverage;the extent to which something is covered. 'the dictionary's coverage of standard english is excellent'
indifference;the trait of remaining calm and seeming not to care. a casual lack of concern
swiftness;a rate (usually rapid) at which something happens. 'the project advanced with gratifying speed'
ungraciousness;an offensive lack of good manners
divergence;a difference between conflicting facts or claims or opinions. 'a growing divergence of opinion'
appeal;attractiveness that interests or pleases or stimulates
ambit;an area in which something acts or operates or has power or control: 'the range of a supersonic jet'. 'the ambit of municipal legislation'. 'within the compass of this article'. within the scope of an investigation'. 'outside the reach of the law'. 'in the political orbit of a world power'
contemplativeness;deep serious thoughtfulness
symmetry;(mathematics) an attribute of a shape. exact correspondence of form on opposite sides of a dividing line or plane
pomposity;lack of elegance as a consequence of pomposity
head voice;the higher ranges of the voice in speaking or singing. the vibrations of sung notes are felt in the head
quantity;an adequate or large amount. 'he had a quantity of ammunition'
age;how long something has existed. 'it was replaced because of its age'
deceleration;decrease in velocity
unfitness;lacking the power to perform
thm;a master's degree in theology
strawberry mark;a soft red birthmark
blandness;lacking any distinctive or interesting taste property
master of literature;a master's degree in literature
unjustness;the practice of being unjust or unfair
squatness;the property of being short and broad
seediness;a lack of elegance as a consequence of wearing threadbare or dirty clothing
inflexibleness;a lack of physical flexibility
crimson;a deep and vivid red
airiness;lightness in movement or manner
appropriateness;the quality of being specially suitable
rigour;something hard to endure. 'the asperity of northern winters'
completeness;(logic) an attribute of a logical system that is so constituted that a contradiction arises if any proposition is introduced that cannot be derived from the axioms of the system
congregationalism;system of beliefs and church government of a protestant denomination in which each member church is self-governing
richness;the property of a sound that has a rich and pleasing timbre
chance;a measure of how likely it is that some event will occur. 'what is the probability of rain?'. 'we have a good chance of winning'
loftiness;the condition of being high or lofty
force;physical energy or intensity: 'he hit with all the force he could muster'. 'it was destroyed by the strength of the gale'. 'a government has not the vitality and forcefulness of a living man'
luridness;unnatural lack of color in the skin (as from bruising or sickness or emotional distress)
tat;tastelessness by virtue of being cheap and vulgar
pleasingness;pleasant palatability
breakableness;the consistency of something that breaks under pressure
invariableness;the quality of being resistant to variation
mesomorphy;muscular and big-boned
oddity;a strange attitude or habit
offensiveness;the quality of being offensive
irreversibility;the quality of being irreversible (once done it cannot be changed)
amplitude;greatness of magnitude
correctitude;correct or appropriate behavior
bns;a bachelor's degree in naval science
brahminism;the religious beliefs of ancient india as prescribed in the sacred vedas and brahmanas and upanishads
gumminess;the property of being cohesive and sticky
radiance;the quality of being bright and sending out rays of light
freshness;the property of being pure and fresh (as if newly made). not stale or deteriorated. 'she loved the freshness of newly baked bread'. 'the freshness of the air revived him'
apathy;the trait of lacking enthusiasm for or interest in things generally
slur;a blemish made by dirt. 'he had a smudge on his cheek'
crankiness;a fussy and eccentric disposition
stiffness;the property of moving with pain or difficulty. 'he awoke with a painful stiffness in his neck'
garishness;strident color or excessive ornamentation
opportunism;taking advantage of opportunities without regard for the consequences for others
unlikeliness;the improbability of a specified outcome
sourness;the sharp taste of something acidic (as vinegar or lemon juice)
protraction;the consequence of being lengthened in duration
irregularity;not characterized by a fixed principle or rate. at irregular intervals
inconsideration;the quality of failing to be considerate of others
sand;(informal) fortitude. 'he didn't have the guts to try it'
stranglehold;complete power over a person or situation
lifelessness;not having life
minginess;extreme stinginess
ferociousness;the trait of extreme cruelty
inconstancy;the quality of being changeable and variable
hotness;the presence of heat
stretchability;the capacity for being stretched
pep;liveliness and energy. 'this tonic is guaranteed to give you more pep'
obliqueness;the quality of being oblique and rambling indirectly
matter;(used with negation) having consequence. 'they were friends and it was no matter who won the games'
politeness;a courteous manner that respects accepted social usage
spontaneity;the quality of being spontaneous and coming from natural feelings without constraint. 'the spontaneity of his laughter'
frugality;prudence in avoiding waste
impreciseness;the quality of lacking precision
chasteness;lack of ornamentation
majority;the property resulting from being or relating to the greater in number of two parts. the main part. 'the majority of his customers prefer it'. 'the bulk of the work is finished'
mithraicism;ancient persian religion. popular among romans during first three centuries a.d.
obliqueness;the property of being neither parallel nor perpendicular, but at a slanting angle
crispness;firm but easily broken
deliberateness;a rate demonstrating an absence of haste or hurry
ill nature;a disagreeable, irritable, or malevolent disposition
voluminousness;greatness of volume
despicableness;unworthiness by virtue of lacking higher values
artlessness;the quality of innocent naivete
firmness;the firmness and tone of healthy tissue: 'his muscle firmness'
navy blue;a dark shade of blue
charitableness;generosity as manifested by practicing charity (as for the poor or unfortunate)
sedulousness;the quality of constantly diligent and attentive
bedside manner;manner or conduct of a physician in the presence of a patient
energy;enterprising or ambitious drive. 'europeans often laugh at american energy'
irrepressibility;irrepressible liveliness and good spirit. 'i admired his bouyancy and persistent good humor'
determinateness;the quality of being predictable with great confidence
errancy;(christianity) holding views that disagree with accepted doctrine
modestness;the property of being moderate in price. 'the store is famous for the reasonableness of its prices'
aa;an associate degree in arts
beam;breadth amidships
wiseness;the trait of utilizing knowledge and experience with common sense and insight
impracticability;the quality of not being usable
fly in the ointment;an inconvenience that detracts from the usefulness of something
duress;compulsory force or threat. 'confessed under duress'
refuge;something or someone turned to for assistance or security: 'his only recourse was the police'. 'took refuge in lying'
judiciousness;the mental ability to form an opinion by distinguishing and evaluating
harvest moon;the full moon nearest the september equinox
complexity;the quality of being intricate and compounded. 'he enjoyed the complexity of modern computers'
unavailability;the quality of not being unavailable when needed
lilt;a jaunty rhythm in music
pagan religion;any of various religions other than christianity or judaism or islamism
breeziness;a breezy liveliness. 'a delightful breeziness of manner'
heaviness;used of a line or mark
speed;a rate (usually rapid) at which something happens. 'the project advanced with gratifying speed'
sportsmanship;fairness in following the rules of the game
simultaneousness;happening or existing or done at the same time
creaminess;the property of having the thickness of heavy cream
decorousness;propriety in manners and conduct
fugacity;(chemistry) the tendency of a gas to expand or escape
querulousness;the quality of being given to complaining
oddity;eccentricity that is not easily explained
flaccidity;a flabby softness
massiveness;the property of being large in mass
sleaze;tastelessness by virtue of being cheap and vulgar
darn;something of little value. 'it is not worth a damn'. 'not worth shucks'
jugular;a vital part that is vulnerable to attack. 'he always goes for the jugular'
wariness;the trait of being cautious and watchful
say so;the power to exercise authoritative or dominating control or influence over. 'he has the authority to issue warrants'
crudeness;an unpolished unrefined quality. 'the crudeness of frontier dwellings depressed her'
mischievousness;the trait of behaving like an imp
dirtiness;obscenity in speech or writing
embonpoint;the bodily property of being well rounded
pliability;the quality of being easily adaptable
bachelor of arts in nursing;a bachelor's degree in nursing
sobriety;a manner that is serious and solemn
vehemence;the property of being wild or turbulent. 'the storm's violence'
disagreement;a difference between conflicting facts or claims or opinions. 'a growing divergence of opinion'
depth;degree of psychological or intellectual depth
finishing;a decorative texture or appearance of a surface. 'the boat had a metallic finish'
validness;the quality of having legal force or effectiveness
jactation;(pathology) extremely restless tossing and twitching usually by a person with a severe illness
tawdriness;tasteless showiness
ease;freedom from constraint or embarrassment. 'i am never at ease with strangers'
delinquency;a tendency to be negligent and uncaring. 'he inherited his delinquency from his father'. 'his derelictions were not really intended as crimes'. 'his adolescent protest consisted of willful neglect of all his responsibilities'
prominence;relative importance
amount;how much of something is available. 'an adequate amount of food for four people'
hollowness;the property of having a sunken area
excessiveness;immoderation as a consequence of going beyond sufficient or permitted limits
inadequacy;lack of an adequate quantity or number. 'the inadequacy of unemployment benefits'
maceration;leanness (usually caused by starvation)
gauntness;leanness (usually caused by starvation)
shaktism;worship of shakti as the wife of shiva
currency;general acceptance or use: 'the currency of ideas'
master of science;a master's degree in science
tenderness;a tendency to express warm and affectionate feeling
vitality;the property of being able to survive and grow. 'the vitality of a seed'
peculiarity;a distinguishing trait
haphazardness;the quality of lacking any predictable order or plan
facetiousness;playful humor
poignancy;a quality that arouses emotions (especially pity or sorrow). 'the film captured all the pathos of their situation'
indecorum;a lack of decorum
nature;the essential qualities or characteristics by which something is recognized. 'it is the nature of fire to burn'
perdurability;the property of being extremely durable
suspiciousness;being of a suspicious nature. 'his suspiciousness destroyed his marriage'
lineament;"a characteristic property that defines the apparent individual nature of something. 'each town has a quality all its own'. 'the radical character of our demands'"
conscience;conformity to one's own sense of right conduct: 'a person of unflagging conscience'
persistence;the property of a continuous and connected period of time
demerit;the quality of being faulty or inadequate. 'they discussed the merits and demerits of her novel'
imprudence;a lack of caution in practical affairs
animal nature;the physical (or animal) side of a person as opposed to the spirit or intellect
hideousness;extreme ugliness
obviousness;the property of being easy to see and understand
daring;the trait of being willing to undertake things that involve risk or danger. 'the proposal required great boldness'
frothiness;the property of giving off bubbles
curvature;the property possessed by the curving of a line or surface
silver grey;a light shade of gray
superficies;the purely external aspect of a thing. superficial appearance: 'the audience was held by the substance of the play rather than by the superficies of the production'-r.w.speaight
behalf;for someone's advantage or benefit (usually expressed as 'in behalf' rather than 'on behalf' and usually with a possessive): 'in your behalf'. 'campaigning in his own behalf'. 'spoke a good word in his friend's behalf'
glamour;alluring beauty or charm (often with sex-appeal)
adorability;extreme attractiveness
apricot;a shade of pink tinged with yellow
judgment;the capacity to assess situations or circumstances shrewdly and to draw sound conclusions
procrastination;slowness as a consequence of not getting around to it
rastafarianism;belief in ras tafari (haile selassie of ethiopia) as the messiah and that africa (especially ethiopia) is the promised land
parallelism;similarity by virtue of correspondence
dissimilarity;the quality of being dissimilar
uniformness;the quality of lacking diversity or variation (even to the point of boredom)
physiology;processes and functions of an organism
gender;the properties that distinguish organisms on the basis of their reproductive roles. 'she didn't want to know the sex of the foetus'
soupiness;the property of having the thickness of heavy cream
manner;a way of acting or behaving
pluck;the trait of showing courage and determination in spite of possible loss or injury
chariness;the trait of being cautious and watchful
misanthropy;a disposition to dislike and mistrust other people
awkwardness;the carriage of someone whose movements and posture are ungainly or inelegant
favor;an advantage to the benefit of someone or something. 'the outcome was in his favor'
rashness;the trait of acting rashly and without prudence
oxford grey;a very dark gray color
languor;an unusual lack of energy
twang;exaggerated nasality in speech (as in some regional dialects)
plausibility;apparent validity
sincerity;the trait of being serious. 'a lack of solemnity is not necessarily a lack of seriousness'- robert rice
overcredulity;too much credulity
attentiveness;the trait of being considerate and thoughtful of others
dullness;the quality of lacking interestingness
plenteousness;a full supply. 'there was plenty of food for everyone'
gravitational mass;(physics) the mass of a body as measured by its gravitational attraction for other bodies
egoism;attempting to get personal recognition for yourself (especially by unacceptable means)
two dimensionality;the property of having two dimensions
weak part;a place of especial vulnerability
wisdom;the quality of being prudent and sensible
fineness;the property of being very narrow or thin. 'he marvelled at the fineness of her hair'
idealism;impracticality by virtue of thinking of things in their ideal form rather than as they really are
lengthiness;the consequence of being lengthened in duration
informality;a manner that does not take forms and ceremonies seriously
inessentiality;not of baic importance
wantonness;the quality of being lewd and lascivious
thickness;resistance to flow
detergency;the quality of having cleansing power
qualification;an attribute that fits a person for something: 'her qualifications for the job are excellent'. 'one of the qualifications for admission is an academic degree'
opalescence;the visual property of something having a milky brightness
presence of mind;self-control in a crisis. ability to say or do the right thing in an emergency
unwieldiness;trouble in carrying or managing caused by bulk or shape: 'the movers cursed the unwieldiness of the big piano'
indigestibility;the property of being difficult to digest
muddiness;the quality of being cloudy
mormonism;the doctrines and practices of the mormon church based on the book of mormon
christian science;religious system based on teachings of mary baker eddy emphasizing spiritual healing
approach;a close approximation. 'the nearest approach to genius'
chronological succession;a following of one thing after another in time. 'the doctor saw a sequence of patients'
wideness;the property of having width
ineligibility;the quality or state of being ineligible
capaciousness;spatial largeness (especially inside a building)
coincidence;the temporal property of two things happening at the same time. 'the interval determining the coincidence gate is adjustable'
sandiness;a texture resembling that of sand
complex instruction set computing;(computer science) a kind of computer architecture that has a large number of instructions hard coded into the cpu chip
lyricism;unrestrained and exaggerated enthusiasm
unadaptability;the inability to change or be changed to fit changed circumstances
face;the expression on a person's face. 'a sad expression'. 'a look of triumph'. 'an angry face'
opportuneness;timely convenience
height;the vertical dimension of extension. distance from the base of something to the top
certainty;something that is certain. 'his victory is a certainty'
role;what something is used for. 'the function of an auger is to bore holes'. 'ballet is beautiful but what use is it?'
cut rate;a price below the standard price
inexplicitness;unclearness by virtue of not being explicit
poorness;less than adequate. 'the relative poorness of new england farmland'
lithotomy position;a position lying on your back with knees bent and thighs apart. assumed for vaginal or rectal examination
tractableness;the trait of being easily persuaded
grade;a position on a scale of intensity or amount or quality: 'a moderate degree of intelligence'. 'a high level of care is required'. 'it is all a matter of degree'
interestingness;the power of attracting or holding one's interest (because it is unusual or exciting etc.). 'they said nothing of great interest'. 'primary colors can add interest to a room'
surliness;a disposition to exhibit uncontrolled anger. 'his temper was well known to all his employees'
objectionableness;the quality of being hateful
esprit;liveliness of mind or spirit
discipline;the trait of being well behaved. 'he insisted on discipline among the troops'
buff;a medium to dark tan color
inadequacy;unsatisfactoriness by virtue of being inadequate
iron mould;a spot caused the staining with rust or ink
juiciness;a juicy appetizingness
inhospitableness;an inhospitable disposition
fairness;conformity with rules or standards. 'the judge recognized the fairness of my claim'
gentility;elegance by virtue of fineness of manner and expression
evanescence;the property of lasting for a very short time
tattletale grey;a grayish white
bawdiness;the trait of behaving in an obscene manner
lawfulness;the quality of conforming to law
congruity;the quality of agreeing. being suitable and appropriate
characteristic;a distinguishing quality
tax boost;the amount by which taxes are increased. 'a tax increase of 15 percent'
aggressiveness;the quality of being bold and enterprising
hemangioma simplex;a soft red birthmark
prevalence;the quality of prevailing generally. being widespread. 'the prevalence of dysentery is horrible'
opaqueness;the quality of being opaque to a degree. the degree to which something reduces the passage of light
saffron;a shade of yellow tinged with orange
mum;secrecy. 'mum's the word'
inexpediency;the quality of being unsuited to the end in view
acceptableness;satisfactoriness by virtue of conforming to approved standards
fugacity;the lack of enduring qualities (used chiefly of plant parts)
petite;a garment size for short or slender women
neighborliness;a disposition to be friendly and helpful to neighbors
brackishness;the saltiness of water
self respect;the quality of being worthy of esteem or respect: 'it was beneath his dignity to cheat'. 'showed his true dignity when under pressure'
glaze;coating for fabrics, ceramics, metal, etc.
puissance;power to influence or coerce. 'the puissance of the labor vote'
boniness;leanness (usually caused by starvation)
fuzziness;the quality of being indistinct
liquidness;the property of flowing easily
fineness;the quality of being beautiful and delicate in appearance. 'the daintiness of her touch'. 'the fineness of her features'
winsomeness;childlike charm or appeal
solferino;a purplish pink dye was discovered in 1859, the year a battle was fought at solferino
deadness;the inanimate property of something that has died
sharpness;the attribute of urgency. 'his voice had an edge to it'
plainness;the appearance of being plain and unpretentious
compatibility;capability of existing or performing in harmonious or congenial combination
neglect;the trait of neglecting responsibilities and lacking concern
dearness;the quality possessed by something with a great price or value
uncleanliness;lack of cleanly habits
helpfulness;friendliness evidence by a kindly and helpful disposition
pelting;anything happening rapidly or in quick successive. 'a rain of bullets'. 'a pelting of insults'
orbit;an area in which something acts or operates or has power or control: 'the range of a supersonic jet'. 'the ambit of municipal legislation'. 'within the compass of this article'. within the scope of an investigation'. 'outside the reach of the law'. 'in the political orbit of a world power'
daintiness;the quality of being beautiful and delicate in appearance. 'the daintiness of her touch'. 'the fineness of her features'
parsiism;zoroastrian sect in india
insipidness;lacking any distinctive or interesting taste property
daub;a blemish made by dirt. 'he had a smudge on his cheek'
motivity;the power or ability to move
precipitateness;the quality of happening with headlong haste or without warning
concreteness;the quality of being concrete (not abstract)
knot;soft lump or unevenness in a yarn. either an imperfection or created by design
effusiveness;a friendly open trait of a talkative person
legerity;the gracefulness of a person or animal that is quick and nimble
indistinctness;the quality of being indistinct
flexibility;the property of being flexible
porousness;the property of being porous. being able to absorb fluids
straightforwardness;without hypocrisy: 'the singleness of his motives could not be questioned'
rudeness;a manner that is rude and insulting
earliness;quality of coming early or earlier in time
background level;the amplitude level of the undesired background noise
firmness;the property of being unyielding to the touch
shoddiness;the quality of being cheaply imitative of something better
doctor of fine arts;an honorary degree in fine arts
ruddiness;a healthy reddish complexion
inscrutability;the quality of being impossible to investigate. 'the inscrutability of the future'
grace;free and unmerited favor or beneficence of god: 'there but for the grace of god go i'
indiscretion;the trait of being injudicious
pleasingness;a likeable beauty. 'the liveliness and pleasingness of dark eyes'- t.n. carver
indestructibility;the strength to resist destruction
heroism;the qualities of a hero or heroine. exceptional or heroic courage when facing danger (especially in battle). 'he showed great heroism in battle'. 'he received a medal for valor'
informality;freedom from constraint or embarrassment. 'i am never at ease with strangers'
expanse;the extent of a 2-dimensional surface enclosed within a boundary. 'the area of a rectangle'. 'it was about 500 square feet in area'
sparkle;the quality of glittering or sparkling brightly
fluidness;the property of flowing easily
abandon;the trait of lacking restraint or control. freedom from inhibition or worry. 'she danced with abandon'
luridness;the quality of being ghastly
popularity;the quality of being widely admired or accepted or sought after: 'his charm soon won him affection and popularity'. 'the universal popularity of american movies'
effeminateness;the trait of being effeminate (derogatory of a man)
deservingness;the quality of being deserving (e.g., deserving assistance). 'there were many children whose deservingness he recognized and rewarded'
inconstancy;unfaithfulness by virtue of being unreliable or treacherous
incessantness;the quality of something that continues without end or interruption
mischief;the quality or nature of being harmful or evil
uppishness;assumption of airs beyond one's station
frivolousness;the trait of being frivolous. not serious or sensible
nonindulgence;the trait of great self-denial (especially refraining from worldly pleasures)
master of divinity;a master's degree in religion
harmfulness;the quality of being noxious
bachelor of literature;a bachelor's degree in literature
brilliance;great brightness. 'a glare of sunlight'. 'the flowers were a blaze of color'
softness;a disposition to be lenient in judging others. 'softness is not something permitted of good leaders'
uprightness;the property of being upright in posture
mutableness;the quality of being capable of mutation
draft;the depth of a vessel's keel below the surface (especially when loaded)
substantiality;the quality of being substantial or having substance
suppleness;the property of being pliant
chromatism;abnormal pigmentation
subordination;the quality of obedient submissiveness
chest voice;the lower ranges of the voice in speaking or singing
ash gray;a light shade of gray
tenuity;relatively small dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width: 'the tenuity of a hair'. 'the thinness of a rope'
dark red;a red that reflects little light
sacredness;the quality of being sacred
sluggishness;an unusual lack of energy
rottenness;the quality of rotting and becoming putrid
presentness;the quality of being the present: 'a study of the pastness of the present and...of the presentness of the past'- r.e.spiller
providence;the prudence and care exercised by someone in the management of resources
raw beauty;beauty that is stark and powerfully impressive
emaciation;leanness (usually caused by starvation)
willingness;cheerful compliance: 'he expressed his willingness to help'
diminutiveness;the property of being very small in size
excellence;the quality of excelling. possessing good qualities in high degree
humanity;the quality of being humane
getaway;the attribute of being capable of rapid acceleration. 'his car has a lot of pickup'
indeterminancy;the quality of being vague and poorly defined
logicality;correct and valid reasoning
morbidity;the quality of being unhealthful and generally bad for you
plentifulness;a full supply. 'there was plenty of food for everyone'
associableness;the capability of being easily associated or joined or connected in thought
shoddiness;the property of weakness by virtue of careless construction
propitiousness;the favorable quality of strongly indicating a successful result
circularity;the roundness of a 2-dimensional figure
unhealthfulness;the quality of promoting poor health
speechlessness;the property of being speechless
aliveness;having animal life as distinguished from plant life: 'full of life'
capability;the quality of being capable -- physically or intellectually or legally. 'he worked to the limits of his capability'
romanticism;impractical romantic ideals and attitudes
tone;(linguistics) a pitch or change in pitch of the voice that serves to distinguish words in tonal languages. 'the beijing dialect uses four tones'
decorum;propriety in manners and conduct
irritability;a disposition to exhibit uncontrolled anger. 'his temper was well known to all his employees'
potency;capacity to produce strong physiological or chemical effects: 'the toxin's potency'. 'the strength of the drinks'
ochre;a moderate yellow-orange to orange color
ban;a bachelor's degree in nursing
suaveness;smooth and gracious in manner
unmercifulness;inhumaneness evidenced by an unwillingness to be kind or forgiving
corpulence;the property of excessive fatness
loss;the disadvantage that results from losing something. 'his loss of credibility led to his resignation' or 'losing him is no great deprivation'
perfidy;betrayal of a trust
incivility;deliberate discourtesy
inconvenience;a difficulty that causes anxiety
matt;the property of having little or no contrast
bimetallism;a monetary standard under which the basic unit of currency is defined by stated amounts of two metals (usually gold and silver) with values set at a predetermined ratio
luminousness;the quality of being luminous. emitting or reflecting light. 'its luminosity is measured relative to that of our sun'
affableness;a disposition to be friendly and approachable (easy to talk to)
right handedness;preference for using the right hand
transitoriness;an impermanence that suggests the inevitability of ending or dying
exiguity;the quality of being meager. 'an exiguity of cloth that would only allow of miniature capes'-george eliot
woodgrain;texture of fibers in wood
averageness;ordinariness as a consequence of being average and not outstanding
graining;a texture like that of wood
advantage;the quality of having a superior or more favorable position. 'he experience gave him the advantage over me'
toughness;impressive difficulty
stardust;a dreamy romantic or sentimental quality
prolificacy;the property of producing abundantly and sustaining growth. 'he praised the richness of the soil'
chrome green;a brilliant green pigment containing chromium compounds
positivity;a quality or state characterized by certainty or acceptance or affirmation
mysticism;a religion based on mystical communion with an ultimate reality
denseness;the amount per unit size
trenchancy;keenness and forcefulness of thought or expression or intellect
amplitude;the property of copious abundance
laxness;the quality of being lax and neglectful
deliciousness;extreme appetizingness
bmus;a bachelor's degree in music
mazdaism;system founded in persia in the 6th century b.c. by zoroaster. set forth in the zend-avesta. based on concept of struggle between light (good) and dark (evil)
jactitation;(pathology) extremely restless tossing and twitching usually by a person with a severe illness
pea green;a shade of green tinged with yellow
meagerness;the quality of being meager. 'an exiguity of cloth that would only allow of miniature capes'-george eliot
heat barrier;a limit to high speed flight imposed by aerodynamic heating
movableness;the quality of being movable. capable of being moved or rearranged
tedium;dullness owing to length or slowness
nutritiousness;the quality of being nourishing and promoting healthy growth
retentivity;the power of retaining liquid: 'moisture retentivity of soil'
ecclesiasticism;religion appropriate to a church and to ecclesiastical principles and practices
risc;(computer science) a kind of computer architecture that has a relatively small set of computer instructions that it can perform
lightness;having a light color
sharpness;harshness of manner
skittishness;characterized by nervousness and quickness to take fright
dubiousness;uncertainty about the truth or factuality of existence of something. 'the dubiousness of his claim'. 'there is no question about the validity of the enterprise'
field strength;the vector sum of all the forces exerted by an electrical or magnetic field (on a unit mass or unit charge or unit magnetic pole) at a given point in the field
answerability;responsibility to someone or for some activity
rigorousness;something hard to endure. 'the asperity of northern winters'
underbelly;the quality of being weak or unprotected. 'the soft underbelly of the axis'- winston churchill
heather;interwoven yarns of mixed colors producing muted grayish shades with flecks of color
magnitude;relative importance: 'a problem of the first magnitude'
disgracefulness;unworthiness meriting public disgrace and dishonor
chatter mark;a mark made by a chattering tool on the surface of a workpiece
yellowish pink;a shade of pink tinged with yellow
self seeking;taking advantage of opportunities without regard for the consequences for others
profligacy;the trait of spending extravagantly
superciliousness;the trait of displaying arrogance by patronizing those considered inferior
mat;the property of having little or no contrast
calm;steadiness of mind under stress. 'he accepted their problems with composure and she with equanimity'
uncommonness;extraordinariness as a consequence of being rare and uncommon
inside track;a favorable position in a competition. 'the boss's son had the inside track for that job'
superficiality;shallowness in terms of affecting only surface layers of something: 'he ignored the wound because of its superficiality'
scratchiness;the roughness of a substance that causes abrasions
steadfastness;steadfast resolution
powerfulness;possession of controlling influence. 'the deterrent power of nuclear weapons'. 'the power of his love saved her'
elegance;a quality of refined gracefulness and good taste
downiness;a light softness
control;discipline in personal and social activities. 'he was a model of polite restraint'. 'she never lost control of herself'
illegibility;writing (print or handwriting) that cannot be deciphered
discreetness;subtly skillful handling of a situation
resoluteness;the trait of being resolute. firmness of purpose. 'his resoluteness carried him through the battle'. 'it was his unshakeable resolution to finish the work'
intricacy;marked by elaborately complex detail
method;a way of doing or being: 'in no wise'. 'in this wise'
modishness;elegance by virtue of being fashionable
stamina;enduring strength and energy
profundity;the quality of being physically deep: 'the profundity of the mine was almost a mile'
masculinity;the trait of behaving in ways considered typical for men
allurement;the power to entice or attract through personal charm
molar concentration;concentration measured by the number of moles of solute per liter of solvent
volubility;the quality of being facile in speech and writing
poltroonery;abject pusillanimity
fit;the manner in which something fits. 'i admired the fit of her coat'
diversity;noticeable heterogeneity. 'a diversity of possibilities'. 'the range and variety of his work is amazing'
warmness;the quality of having a moderate degree of heat: 'an agreeable warmth in the house'
flashiness;tasteless showiness
marbleizing;a texture like that of marble
timidity;fearfulness in venturing into new and unknown places or activities
time;the fourth coordinate that is required (along with three spatial dimensions) to specify a physical event
soundlessness;the property of making no sound
slickness;a slippery smoothness. 'he could feel the slickness of the tiller'
amiability;a disposition to be friendly and approachable (easy to talk to)
arability;the suitability of land for cultivation
vaisnavism;worship of vishnu one of the 3 chief gods of the hindu pantheon
property;"a basic or essential attribute shared by all members of a class. 'a study of the physical properties of atomic particles'"
foresightfulness;providence by virtue of planning prudently for the future
time;rhythm as given by division into parts of equal time
sallowness;a sickly yellowish skin color
spite;malevolence by virtue of being malicious or spiteful or nasty
trinitarianism;christian doctrine stressing belief in the trinity
rosiness;a healthy reddish complexion
dent;an impression in a surface (as made by a blow)
usefulness;the quality of being of practical use
boiling point;the temperature at which a liquid boils at sea level: 'the brought to water to a boil'
unkindness;lack of sympathy
commonweal;the good of a community
up to dateness;the property of belonging to the present time: 'the currency of a slang term'
sparseness;the property of being scanty or scattered. lacking denseness
palette;the range of colour characteristic of a particular artist or painting or school of art'
oleaginousness;consisting of or covered with oil
neglectfulness;the trait of neglecting responsibilities and lacking concern
muhammadanism;the monotheistic religion of muslims based on the koran
conscientiousness;the quality of being in accord with the dictates of conscience
cardinal virtue;one of the seven preeminent virtues
socratic irony;admission of your own ignorance and willingness to learn while exposing someone's inconsistencies by close questioning
patchiness;unevenness in quality or performance
equivocation;deliberate vagueness or ambiguity
balance;(mathematics) an attribute of a shape. exact correspondence of form on opposite sides of a dividing line or plane
presbyterianism;the doctrines and practices of the presbyterian church: based in calvinism
deceitfulness;the quality of being crafty
ballet position;classical position of the body and esp the feet in ballet
oxblood red;a dark brownish red
humility;a disposition to be humble. a lack of false pride. 'not everyone regards humility as a virtue'
incorrectness;lack of conformity to social expectations
slanginess;casualness in use of language
straightness;having honest intentions. 'he acted in good faith'. 'doubt was expressed as to the good faith of the immigrants'
indecency;the quality of being indecent
unappetizingness;the property of spoiling the appetite
self denial;the trait of practicing self discipline
affirmativeness;the agreeable quality of one who assents
look;physical appearance. 'i don't like the looks of this place'
dynamism;a activeness of an energetic personality
indecisiveness;the trait of irresolution. a lack of firmness of character or purpose. 'the king's incurable indecisiveness caused turmoil in his court'
good manners;a courteous manner
flatness;the property of having little or no contrast
salacity;the trait of behaving in an obscene manner
piano;(music) low loudness
fingermark;a smudge made by a (dirty) finger
perpendicularity;the quality of being at right angles to a given line or plane (especially the plane of the horizon)
virility;the trait of being manly. having the characteristics of an adult male
quality;a degree or grade of excellence or worth: 'the quality of students has risen'. 'an executive of low caliber'
inconvertibility;the quality of not being exchangeable. 'the inconvertibility of their currency made international trade impossible'
promptitude;the characteristic of doing things without delay
boldness;impudent aggressiveness. 'i couldn't believe her boldness'. 'he had the effrontery to question my honesty'
impatience;a dislike of anything that causes delay
youngness;the opposite of oldness
numerosity;a large number
better;something better: 'i expected better of him'
aid;a resource: 'visual aids in teaching'. 'economic assistance to depressed areas'
contemptibility;unworthiness by virtue of lacking higher values
timber;the distinctive property of a complex sound (a voice or noise or musical sound). 'the timbre of her soprano was rich and lovely'. 'the muffled tones of the broken bell summoned them to meet'
oiliness;consisting of or covered with oil
truth;the quality of being accurate and without error. 'the lawyer questioned the accuracy of my account'. 'he was beginning to doubt the truth of his compass'
dollar volume;the volume measured in dollars. 'the store's dollar volume continues to rise'
solubility;the quality of being soluble
coffee;a medium to dark brown color
snuff color;dark yellowish brown
deficiency;lack of an adequate quantity or number. 'the inadequacy of unemployment benefits'
imperviousness;resistance to penetration by a liquid
aquamarine;a shade of blue tinged with green
piousness;righteousness by virtue of being pious
brightness;the location of a visual perception along the black-to-white continuum
skinniness;the bodily property of lacking flesh
action;the trait of being active and energetic and forceful. 'a man of action'
gutsiness;the trait of showing courage and determination in spite of possible loss or injury
disarray;untidiness (especially of clothing and appearance)
burn;a burned place or area
brunt;main force of a blow etc: 'bore the brunt of the attack'
old fashionedness;the property of being no longer fashionable
sulkiness;a sullen moody resentful disposition
physical property;a property used to characterize physical objects
rigidity;the physical property of being stiff and resisting bending
mediocrity;ordinariness as a consequence of being average and not outstanding
cert;(british slang) an absolute certainty. 'it's a dead cert'
indefinity;the quality of being vague and poorly defined
hindooism;a complex of beliefs and values and customs including worship of many gods especially the trimurti composed of brahma the creator. vishnu the preserver. and shiva the destroyer
impenetrability;resistance to penetration by a liquid
effectiveness;capacity to produce strong physiological or chemical effects: 'the toxin's potency'. 'the strength of the drinks'
practicality;concerned with actual use rather than theoretical possibilities
tractarianism;principles of the founders of the oxford movement. expounded in pamphlets called 'tracts for the times'
tautness;lack of movement or room for movement
honesty;the quality of being honest
ephemerality;the property of lasting for a very short time
acerbity;a sharp bitterness
light time;distance measured in terms of the speed of light (or radio waves). 'the light time from jupiter to the sun is approximately 43 minutes'
blue;the color of the clear sky in the daytime. 'he had eyes of bright blue'
ba;a bachelor's degree in arts and sciences
royal blue;a shade of blue tinged with purple
pleasantness;the quality of giving pleasure. 'he was charmed by the sweetness of her manner'. 'the pleasantness of a cool breeze on a hot summer day'
dullness;a lack of visual brightness
secrecy;the trait of keeping things secret
significance;the quality of being significant. 'do not underestimate the significance of nuclear power'
absorptivity;(physics) the property of a body that determines the fraction of the incident radiation or sound flux absorbed or absorbable by the body
globularness;the roundness of a 3-dimensional object
regular;a garment size for persons of average height and weight
national income;the total value of all income in a nation (wages and profits and interest and rents and pension payments) during a given period (usually 1 yr)
receptiveness;willingness or readiness to receive esp impressions or ideas: 'their receptivity to the proposal'
grayish brown;a color varying around light grayish brown. 'she wore a dun raincoat'
impermissibility;inadmissibility as a consequence of not being permitted
malignity;quality of being disposed to evil. intense ill will
cerise;a red the color of ripe cherries
authenticity;undisputed credibility
improbableness;the quality of being improbable
absoluteness;the quality of being absolute. 'the absoluteness of the pope's decree could not be challenged'
lobularity;the property of having lobules
gullibility;tendency to believe too readily and therefore to be easily deceived
hardness;excessive sternness. 'the severity of his punishment was inhuman'
embarrassment;extreme excess. 'an embarrassment of riches'
dwarfishness;smallness of stature
brotherly love;a kindly and lenient attitude toward people
hastiness;hasty impulsiveness
comportment;dignified manner or conduct
rakishness;stylishness as evidenced by a smart appearance
on the qui vive;lively attentiveness
coloring;a visual attribute of things that results from the light they emit or transmit or reflect. 'white is the coolest summer color'
perversity;deliberately deviating from what is good
instantaneousness;the quickness of action or occurrence. 'the immediacy of their response'. 'the instancy of modern communication'
tubbiness;the property of having a plump and round body
number;the property possessed by a sum or total or indefinite quantity of units or individuals. 'he had a number of chores to do'. 'the number of parameters is small'. 'the figure was about a thousand'
increase;the amount by which something increases. 'they proposed an increase of 15 percent in the fare'
curiousness;the quality of being alien or not native: 'the strangeness of a foreigner'
unsociability;an unsociable disposition. avoiding friendship or companionship
duration;continuance in time. 'the ceremony was of short duration'. 'he complained about the length of time required'
handicap;advantage given to a competitor to equalize chances of winning
inefficaciousness;a lack of efficacy
purplish pink;a purplish pink dye was discovered in 1859, the year a battle was fought at solferino
expeditiousness;the property of being prompt and efficient. 'it was done with dispatch'
superfluity;extreme excess. 'an embarrassment of riches'
prudery;excessive or affected modesty
insensitivity;the inability to respond to affective changes in your interpersonal environment
monosemy;having a single meaning (absence of ambiguity) usually of individual words or phrases
swing;a jaunty rhythm in music
emotionality;emotional nature or quality
flash;a momentary brightness
niceness;a courteous manner that respects accepted social usage
sea power;naval strength
fundamentalism;the interpretation of every word in the bible as literal truth
civic pride;pride in your city
enticement;qualities that attract by seeming to promise some kind of reward
nonequivalence;not interchangeable
constitution;the way in which someone or something is composed
possessiveness;excessive desire to possess or dominate
dispensability;the quality possessed by something that you can get along without
falseness;unfaithfulness by virtue of being unreliable or treacherous
summum bonum;the supreme good in which all moral values are included or from which they are derived
viability;capable of become practical and useful
stylemark;a distinctive characteristic or attribute
free will;the power of making free choices unconstrained by external agencies
speciousness;an appearance of truth that is false or deceptive. seeming plausibility: 'the speciousness of his argument'
inadequateness;unsatisfactoriness by virtue of being inadequate
religiousness;piety by virtue of being devout
vulgarism;the quality of lacking taste and refinement
costliness;the quality possessed by something with a great price or value
obsolescence;the property of being out of date and not current
disrespect;a manner that is generally disrespectful and contemptuous
humanity;the quality of being human
graveness;a manner that is serious and solemn
wart;(pathology) a firm abnormal elevated blemish on the skin. caused by a virus
bachelor of theology;a bachelor's degree in theology
gamesmanship;the use of dubious (although not technically illegal) methods to win a game
deviation;the error of a compass due to local magnetic disturbances
unholiness;the quality of being unholy
competitiveness;an aggressive willingness to compete. 'the team was full of fight'
artfulness;the quality of being adroit in taking unfair advantage
sea green;the property of a moderate green color resembling the waters of the sea
motive power;the power or ability to move
flash point;the lowest temperature at which the vapor above a liquid can be ignited in air
unimportance;the quality of not being important or worthy of note
willful neglect;a tendency to be negligent and uncaring. 'he inherited his delinquency from his father'. 'his derelictions were not really intended as crimes'. 'his adolescent protest consisted of willful neglect of all his responsibilities'
mud stain;a stain produced by mud
haziness;cloudiness resulting from haze or mist
consequence;having important effects or influence. 'decisions of great consequence are made by the president himself'. 'virtue is of more moment that security'
pusillanimousness;contemptible fearfulness
crookedness;having or distinguished by crooks or curves or bends or angles
passivity;the trait of remaining inactive. a lack of initiative
consideration;kind and considerate regard for others. 'he showed no consideration for her feelings'
complex instruction set computer;(computer science) a kind of computer architecture that has a large number of instructions hard coded into the cpu chip
malodorousness;the attribute of having a strong offensive smell
shiftiness;the quality of being a slippery rascal
immoderateness;the quality of being excessive and lacking in moderation
push;enterprising or ambitious drive. 'europeans often laugh at american energy'
awkwardness;the inelegance of someone stiff and unrelaxed (as by embarrassment)
uncloudedness;the quality of clear water. 'when she awoke the clarity was back in her eyes'
unfairness;injustice by virtue of not being equitable
safeness;the quality of being safe
aptness;appropriateness. 'the phrase had considerable aptness'
catholicity;the beliefs and practices of a catholic church
length;continuance in time. 'the ceremony was of short duration'. 'he complained about the length of time required'
rightness;according with conscience or morality
mat;a master's degree in teaching
agreeableness;pleasantness resulting from agreeable conditions. 'a well trained staff saw to the agreeableness of our accommodations'. 'he discovered the amenities of reading at an early age'
light mindedness;inappropriate levity
unfavorableness;the quality of not being encouraging or indicative of success
sufferance;a disposition to tolerate or accept people or situations
richness;the property of producing abundantly and sustaining growth. 'he praised the richness of the soil'
merit;the quality of being deserving (e.g., deserving assistance). 'there were many children whose deservingness he recognized and rewarded'
laterality;the property of using one hand more than the other
clumsiness;the inelegance of someone stiff and unrelaxed (as by embarrassment)
aroma;any property detected by the olfactory system
incommutability;the quality of being not interchangeable
gracelessness;an unpleasant carriage
dishonour;lacking honor or integrity
heat content;the sum of the internal energy of a system and the product of its volume and pressure
polytheism;belief in multiple gods
subservience;abject or cringing submissiveness
haziness;vagueness attributable to being not clearly defined
unquestionability;the quality of being beyond question or dispute or doubt
swell;a crescendo followed by a decrescendo
chrome yellow;yellow pigment consisting of neutral lead chromate
top;the greatest possible intensity: 'he screamed at the top of his lungs'
glitz;tasteless showiness
sycophancy;fawning obsequiousness
edacity;extreme gluttony
sluttishness;in the manner of a slattern
temporal arrangement;arrangement of events in time
pitch;the property of sound that varies with variation in the frequency of vibration
mettle;the courage to carry on: 'he kept fighting on pure spunk'. 'you haven't got the heart for baseball'
sureness;the quality of being steady and unfailing. 'sureness of hand'
sensibleness;the quality of showing good sense or practical judgment
first class honours degree;(great britain) an honours degree of the highest class
frivolity;the trait of being frivolous. not serious or sensible
slothfulness;a disinclination to work or exert yourself
length of service;duration of service: 'her longevity as a star'. 'had unusual longevity in the company'
unfeasibility;the quality of not being doable
sacrilegiousness;profaneness by virtue of committing sacrilege
uprightness;uprightness as a consequence of being honorable and honest
resolve;the trait of being resolute. firmness of purpose. 'his resoluteness carried him through the battle'. 'it was his unshakeable resolution to finish the work'
inappropriateness;inappropriate conduct
unceremoniousness;an unceremonial manner
invulnerability;the property of being invulnerable. the property of being incapable of being hurt (physically or emotionally)
mlitt;a master's degree in literature
influence;a power to affect persons or events esp power based on prestige etc: 'used her parents' influence to get the job'
mannerism;an behavioral attribute that is distinctive and peculiar to an individual
silence;the absence of sound. 'he needed silence in order to sleep'. 'the street was quiet'
holiness;the quality of being holy
appearance;outward or visible aspect of a person or thing
compulsivity;the trait of acting compulsively
body type;a category of physique
christian religion;the system of christian beliefs and practices
abstruseness;the quality of being unclear or abstruse and hard to understand
oblateness;the property possessed by a rounded shape that is flattened at the poles. 'the oblateness of the planet'
endomorphy;round, fat, and heavy
militance;a militant aggressiveness
physicalness;the quality of being physical. consisting of matter
permanence;the property of being able to exist for an indefinite durationthe property of being able to exist for an indefinite duration
boost;an increase in cost. 'they asked for a 10% rise in rates'
pretext;an artful or simulated semblance. 'under the guise of friendship he betrayed them'
indistinguishability;exact sameness. 'they shared an identity of interests'
milium;a small whitish lump in the skin due to a clogged sebaceous gland
tinge;a pale or subdued color
heredity;the total of inherited attributes
tepidness;a warmness resembling the temperature of the skin
ethnicity;an ethnic quality or affiliation resulting from racial or cultural ties. 'ethnicity has a strong influence on community status relations'
cool;great coolness and composure under strain. 'keep your cool'
inevitability;the quality of being unavoidable
valor;the qualities of a hero or heroine. exceptional or heroic courage when facing danger (especially in battle). 'he showed great heroism in battle'. 'he received a medal for valor'
gain;the amount of increase in signal power or voltage or current expressed as the ratio of output to input
inflexibility;the quality of being rigid and rigorously severe
performance capability;the capability of a technological system to perform as intended
valour;the qualities of a hero or heroine. exceptional or heroic courage when facing danger (especially in battle). 'he showed great heroism in battle'. 'he received a medal for valor'
openhandedness;extremely liberal generosity of spirit
associate degree;a degree granted by a two-year college on successful completion of the undergraduates course of studies
dmus;a doctor's degree in music
shadow;refuge from danger or observation. 'he felt secure in his father's shadow'
tolerance;a permissible difference
re echo;the echo of an echo
fiber;the inherent complex of attributes that determine a persons moral and ethical actions and reactions: 'educaton has for its object the formation of character'- herbert spencer
unusefulness;the quality of having to practical use
deference;courteous regard for people's feelings. 'in deference to your wishes'. 'out of respect for his privacy'
achromatic colour;a color lacking hue. white or gray or black
sincerity;a quality of naturalness and simplicity. 'the simple sincerity of folk songs'
uninterestingness;inability to capture or hold one's interest
noisomeness;the quality of being noxious
constancy;the quality of being free from change or variation
allegiance;the loyalty that citizens owe to their country (or subjects to their sovereign)
extravagance;something that is an indulgence rather than a necessity
gigantism;excessive largeness of stature
justness;conformity with some esthetic standard of correctness or propriety. 'it was performed with justness and beauty'
bachelor of laws;a three-year law degree
tentacle;something that acts like a tentacle in its ability to grasp. 'caught in the tentacles of organized crime'
arminianism;doctrines of jacobus arminius (1610) rejecting absolute predestination or strict calvinism
insidiousness;subtle and cumulative harmfulness esp of a disease
edge;a slight competitive advantage. 'he had an edge on the competition'
asperity;harshness of manner
outlawry;illegality as a consequence of unlawful acts
spicery;the property of being seasoned with spice and so highly flavored
replaceability;exchangeability by virtue of being replaceable
surface area;the extent of a 2-dimensional surface enclosed within a boundary. 'the area of a rectangle'. 'it was about 500 square feet in area'
ratability;the quality of being capable of being rated or estimated
architecture;the manner of construction of something and the disposition of its parts. 'artists must study the structure of the human body'. 'the architecture of a computer's system software'
unconventionality;unorthodoxy by virtue of being unconventional
plumpness;the bodily property of being well rounded
grandness;unusual largeness in size or extent
heterodoxy;the quality of being unorthodox
iron grey;the color of freshly broken cast iron
truthfulness;the quality of being truthful
worse;something inferior in quality or condition or effect: 'for better or for worse'. 'accused of cheating and lying and worse'
stoutness;the property of excessive fatness
indisposition;a certain degree of unwillingness. 'a reluctance to commit himself'. 'after some hesitation he agreed'
bizarreness;strikingly out of the ordinary
green;the property of being green. resembling the color of growing grass
generality;the quality of being general or widespread or having general applicability
shingon;a japanese buddhism emphasizing mystical symbolism of mantras and mudras and the buddha's ideal which is inexpressible
insufficiency;(pathology) inability of a bodily part or organ to function normally
grumpiness;a fussy and eccentric disposition
asceticism;the trait of great self-denial (especially refraining from worldly pleasures)
large;a garment size for a large person
horizon;the range of interest or activity that can be anticipated. 'it is beyond the horizon of present knowledge'
glare;great brightness. 'a glare of sunlight'. 'the flowers were a blaze of color'
subduedness;the property of lacking brilliance
inaccuracy;the quality of being inaccurate and having errors
fun;a disposition to find (or make) causes for amusement. 'her playfulness surprised me'. 'he was fun to be with'
frontage;the extent of the front of shop or plot of land (as along a street or river etc)
interchangeableness;the quality of being capable of exchange or interchange
hesitation;a certain degree of unwillingness. 'a reluctance to commit himself'. 'after some hesitation he agreed'
opacity;the quality of being opaque to a degree. the degree to which something reduces the passage of light
cytoarchitectonics;the cellular composition of a bodily structure
literalness;adhereing to the concrete construal of something
thermal barrier;a limit to high speed flight imposed by aerodynamic heating
inequality;lack of equality: 'the growing inequality between rich and poor'
sepia;a shade of brown with a tinge of red
probability;the quality of being probable
fidelity;accuracy with which an electronic system reproduces the sound or image of its input signal
tout ensemble;a total impression or effect of something made up of individual parts
auspiciousness;the favorable quality of strongly indicating a successful result
impracticality;concerned with theoretical possibilities rather than actual use
indecorousness;a lack of decorum
saintliness;the quality of resembling a saint
paunchiness;the bodily property of a protruding belly
temptingness;the power to entice or attract through personal charm
diminuendo;(music) a gradual decrease in loudness
sexuality;the properties that distinguish organisms on the basis of their reproductive roles. 'she didn't want to know the sex of the foetus'
thing;"any attribute or quality considered as having its own existence: 'the thing i like about her is ...'"
bluish green;a shade of green tinged with blue
stature;natural height of a person or animal in an upright position
altitude;the perpendicular distance from the base of a geometric figure to opposite vertex (or side if parallel)
monotony;the quality of wearisome constancy and lack of variety. 'he had never grown accustomed to the monotony of his work'. 'he hated the sameness of the food the college served'
irreplaceableness;the quality of being irreplaceable
colorlessness;the visual property of being without color
bluffness;good-natured frankness
vileness;the quality of being disgusting to the senses or emotions
vileness;the quality of being wicked
spectral color;a color that has hue
assistance;a resource: 'visual aids in teaching'. 'economic assistance to depressed areas'
sleekness;the smooth feel of silk fabric
high temperature;the presence of heat
preciousness;the positive quality of being precious and beyond value
helplessness;powerlessness revealed by an inability to act. 'in spite of their weakness the group remains highly active'
sickeningness;extreme unpalatability
homogeneity;the quality of being of uniform throughout in composition or structure
remoteness;a disposition to be distant and unsympathetic in manner
stolidity;an indifference to pleasure or pain
selectivity;the property of being selective
pallidness;unnatural lack of color in the skin (as from bruising or sickness or emotional distress)
evil;that which causes harm or destruction or misfortune: 'the evil that men do lives after them. the good is oft interred with their bones'- shakespeare
naivety;lack of sophistication or worldliness
immorality;the quality of not being in accord with standards of right or good conduct
fairness;the property of having a naturally light complexion
wesleyism;evangelical principles taught by john wesley
ghostliness;strangeness by virtue of being mysterious and inspiring fear
retardation;decrease in velocity
universality;the quality of being universal. existing everywhere
supernaturalness;the quality of being attributed to power that seems to violate or go beyond natural forces
pellucidity;free from obscurity and easy to understand. the comprehensibility of clear expression
mba;a master's degree in business
chromatic colour;a color that has hue
fineness;the quality of being very good indeed. 'the inn is distinguished by the fineness of its cuisine'
shamanism;any animistic religion similar to asian shamanism especially as practiced by certain native american tribes
stableness;the quality or attribute of being stable
sheen;the visual property of something that shines with reflected light
cautiousness;the trait of being cautious. being attentive to possible danger. 'a man of caution'
ability;the quality of being able to perform. a quality that permits or facilitates achievement or accomplishment
conjunction;the temporal property of two things happening at the same time. 'the interval determining the coincidence gate is adjustable'
greenness;the property of being green. resembling the color of growing grass
irony;incongruity between what might be expected and what actually occurs: 'the irony of ireland's copying the nation she most hated'
nonsolid color;(computer science) a color produced by a pattern of differently colored dots that together simulate the desired color
inhibition;the quality of being inhibited
successiveness;a following of one thing after another in time. 'the doctor saw a sequence of patients'
energy;an imaginative lively style (especially style of writing). 'his writing conveys great energy'
sophistication;the quality or character of being intellectually sophisticated through cultivation or experience or disillusionment
negligence;the trait of neglecting responsibilities and lacking concern
splashiness;lack of elegance as a consequence of pomposity
chromatic color;a color that has hue
relative molecular mass;(chemistry) the sum of the relative atomic masses of the constituent atoms of a molecule
field intensity;the vector sum of all the forces exerted by an electrical or magnetic field (on a unit mass or unit charge or unit magnetic pole) at a given point in the field
disfigurement;an appearance that has been spoiled or is misshapen
nip;a tart spiciness
attitude;position or arrangement of the body and its limbs. 'he assumed an attitude of surrender'
incompressibility;the property of being incompressible
awfulness;a quality of extreme unpleasantness
deep red;a deep and vivid red
hoariness;great age esp gray or white with age
length;a measure of the gap between two places. 'the distance from new york to chicago'. 'he determined the length of the shortest line segment joining the two points'
yellowness;the quality or state of the chromatic color resembling the hue of sunflowers or ripe lemons
slackness;the condition of being loose (not taut). 'he hadn't counted on the slackness of the rope'
elasticity;the tendency of a body to return to its original shape after it has been stretched or compressed
clearcutness;clarity as a consequence of precision
vandyke brown;a moderate brown color
red heat;the heat of fire
incorruptibility;the incapability of being corrupted
strictness;uncompromising resolution
mdiv;a master's degree in religion
sapidness;a pleasant flavor
flakiness;having or breaking into thin crisp flakes
soft spot;a place of especial vulnerability
deceit;the quality of being fraudulent
slip;a slippery smoothness. 'he could feel the slickness of the tiller'
resilience;irrepressible liveliness and good spirit. 'i admired his bouyancy and persistent good humor'
usualness;commonness by virtue of not being unusual
baccalaureate;an academic degree conferred on someone who has successfully completed undergraduate studies
difficulty;the quality of being difficult. 'they agreed about the difficulty of the climb'
identicalness;exact sameness. 'they shared an identity of interests'
impenetrableness;incomprehensibility by virtue of being too dense to understand
titer;the concentration of a solution as determined by titration
bodily property;an attribute of the body
rigour;the quality of being logically valid
hatefulness;the quality of being hateful
factuality;the quality of being actual or based on fact. 'the realm of factuality must be distinguished from the realm of imagination'
fluffiness;a light softness
volume;the property of something that is great in magnitude. 'it is cheaper to buy it in bulk'. 'he received a mass of correspondence'. 'the volume of exports'
verge;the limit beyond which something happens or changes. 'on the verge of tears'. 'on the brink of bankruptcy'
incapableness;the quality of not being capable -- physically or intellectually or legally
refractiveness;the physical property of a medium as determined by its index of refraction
boisterousness;the property of being noisy and lively and unrestrained
admirableness;admirable excellence
secretiveness;the trait of keeping things secret
heat;the presence of heat
master of fine arts;a master's degree in fine arts
irreproducibility;the quality of being unreproducible. 'he could not explain the irreproducibility of the results of his experiment'
appetizingness;the property of stimulating the appetite
quixotism;quixotic (romantic and impractical) behavior
romance;an exciting and mysterious quality (as of a heroic time or adventure)
figure;the impression produced by a person. 'he cut a fine figure'. 'a heroic figure'
distressfulness;the quality of arousing fear or distress. 'he learned the seriousness of his illness'
strength;permanence by virtue of the power to resist stress or force. 'they advertised the durability of their products'
egotism;an exaggerated opinion of your own importance
doctor of humanities;an honorary degree in the humanities
stuff;unspecified qualities required to do or be something. 'the stuff of heros'. 'you don't have the stuff to be a united states marine'
handedness;the property of using one hand more than the other
hardness;the property of being rigid and resistant to pressure. not easily scratched
duskiness;a swarthy complexion
largess;extremely liberal generosity of spirit
mellowness;the property of a sound that has a rich and pleasing timbre
slowing;decrease in velocity
class;(informal) elegance in dress or behavior. 'she has a lot of class'
baroque;elaborate symmetrical ornamentation
sexual immorality;the quality of being lewd and lascivious
sagacity;the mental ability to form an opinion by distinguishing and evaluating
immediacy;lack of an intervening or mediating agency: 'the immediacy of television coverage'
insolubility;the quality of being insoluble
bilateralism;the property of being symmetrical about a vertical plane
atrocity;the quality of being shockingly cruel and inhumane
bitterness;the property of having a harsh unpleasant taste
audibleness;quality or fact or degree of being audible or perceptible by the ear
directness;trueness of course toward a goal: 'rivaling a hawk in directness of aim'
uselessness;the quality of having to practical use
good neighbourliness;a disposition to be friendly and helpful to neighbors
silliness;a ludicrous folly. 'the crowd laughed at the absurdity of the clown's behavior'
bluntness;the quality of being direct and outspoken. 'the bluntness of a yorkshireman'
prevarication;intentionally vague or ambiguous
schmaltz;(informal) excessive sentimentality
sizeableness;unusual largeness in size or extent
magnetic field strength;the amount of magnetic flux in a unit area perpendicular to the direction of magnetic flow
generosity;the trait of being willing to give your money or time
yellow green;a shade of green tinged with yellow
heart;the courage to carry on: 'he kept fighting on pure spunk'. 'you haven't got the heart for baseball'
lightheadedness;a frivolous lack of prudence
luxury;something that is an indulgence rather than a necessity
better;the superior one of two alternatives: 'chose the better of the two'
resonance;having the character of a loud deep sound
pastel;any of various pale or light colors
strain;a lineage or race of people
turquoise;a shade of blue tinged with green
luxuriance;the property of being lush and abundant
lineage;inherited properties shared with others of your bloodline
give;the elasticity of something that can be stretched and returns to its original length
unyieldingness;resoluteness by virtue of being unyielding and inflexible
focus;maximum clarity or distinctness of an image rendered by an optical system: 'in focus'. 'out of focus'
mushiness;a mushy pulpy softness
introspectiveness;thoughtfulness about your own situation and feelings
aggressiveness;a disposition to fight
wrongness;contrary to conscience or morality
emotionlessness;absence of emotion
area;the extent of a 2-dimensional surface enclosed within a boundary. 'the area of a rectangle'. 'it was about 500 square feet in area'
tinyness;the property of being very small in size
companionability;suitability to be a companion
length;the linear extent in space from one end to the other. the longest horizontal dimension of something that is fixed in place. 'the length of the table was 5 feet'
expanse;a wide scope. 'the sweep of the plains'
shagginess;roughness of nap produced by long woolly hairs
bsarch;a bachelor's degree in architecture
greasiness;consisting of or covered with oil
temper;a disposition to exhibit uncontrolled anger. 'his temper was well known to all his employees'
scar;an indication of damage
propensity;a disposition to behave in a certain way. 'the aptness of iron to rust'. 'the propensity of disease to spread'
good;moral excellence or admirableness: 'there is much good to be found in people'
expediency;the quality of being suited to the end in view
obstinance;resolute adherence to your own ideas or desires
virtue;morality with respect to sexual relations
posture;position or arrangement of the body and its limbs. 'he assumed an attitude of surrender'
dappled grey;gray with a mottled pattern of darker gray markings
visibility;quality or fact or degree of being visible. perceptible by the eye or obvious to the eye: 'low visibility caused by fog'
candlepower;luminous intensity measured in candelas
curie point;the temperature above which a ferromagnetic substance loses its ferromagnetism
tightness;extreme stinginess
footedness;the property of favoring one foot over the other (as in kicking a ball)
capriciousness;the trait of acting more from whim or caprice than from reason or judgment
randomness;the quality of lacking any predictable order or plan
semifluidity;a property midway between a solid and a liquid
chocolate;a medium to dark brown color
olfactory property;any property detected by the olfactory system
veracity;unwillingness to tell lies
granite;something having the quality of granite (unyielding firmness). 'a man of granite'
raciness;behavior or language bordering on indelicacy
4to;the size of a book whose pages are made by folding a sheet of paper twice to form four leaves
pentecostalism;the principles and practices of pentecostal religious groups. characterized by religious excitement and talking in tongues
ordinariness;the quality of being ordinary
blackhead;a black-tipped plug clogging a pore of the skin
transposability;ability to change sequence
flexibleness;the property of being flexible
compliance;a disposition or tendency to yield to the will of others
unease;the trait of seeming ill at ease
compass;an area in which something acts or operates or has power or control: 'the range of a supersonic jet'. 'the ambit of municipal legislation'. 'within the compass of this article'. within the scope of an investigation'. 'outside the reach of the law'. 'in the political orbit of a world power'
roadworthiness;(of motor vehicles) the quality of being fit to drive on the open road
unison;occurring together or simultaneously: 'the two spoke in unison'
distinctness;the quality of being sharp and clear
animation;quality of being active or spirited or vigorous
shinto;the indigenous polytheistic religion of japan lacking organized teachings. primarily nature and ancestor worship including a chief deity from whom the emperor is believed to be descended
dapple gray;gray with a mottled pattern of darker gray markings
snappishness;a disposition to exhibit uncontrolled anger. 'his temper was well known to all his employees'
uneasiness;the trait of seeming ill at ease
doubt;uncertainty about the truth or factuality of existence of something. 'the dubiousness of his claim'. 'there is no question about the validity of the enterprise'
unsuitableness;the quality of having the wrong properties for a specific purpose
doctor of dental medicine;a doctor's degree in dental medicine
character;"a characteristic property that defines the apparent individual nature of something. 'each town has a quality all its own'. 'the radical character of our demands'"
scrupulousness;strict attention to minute details
indecision;the trait of irresolution. a lack of firmness of character or purpose. 'the king's incurable indecisiveness caused turmoil in his court'
pliancy;the property of being pliant
shine;the quality of being bright and sending out rays of light
broadness;the property of having width
nimiety;extreme excess. 'an embarrassment of riches'
troublesomeness;a difficulty that causes anxiety
sparsity;the property of being scanty or scattered. lacking denseness
effervescence;the property of giving off bubbles
black;the quality or state of the achromatic color of least lightness (bearing the least resemblance to white)
opaqueness;incomprehensibility resulting from obscurity of meaning
framework;the underlying structure. 'restoring the framework of the bombed building'. 'it is part of the fabric of society'
overabundance;a quantity that is more than what is appropriate. 'four-year-olds have an overabundance of energy'
apparency;the property of being apparent
instancy;urgently demanding attention. 'the insistence of their hunger'. 'he pressed his demand with considerable instancy'
facial expression;the expression on a person's face. 'a sad expression'. 'a look of triumph'. 'an angry face'
sound;the particular auditory effect produced by a given cause. 'the sound of rain on the roof' or 'the beautiful sound of music'
scholasticism;orthodoxy of a scholastic variety
chrome red;a red pigment used in paints. basic lead chromate
reporting weight;a person's body weight (as an athlete's) at the beginning of the season (when first reporting for practice)
citizenship;conduct as a citizen. 'award for good citizenship'
latitude;scope for freedom of e.g. action or thought. freedom from restriction
head register;the higher ranges of the voice in speaking or singing. the vibrations of sung notes are felt in the head
noticeability;the property of being easy to see and understand
defenselessness;the property of being helpless in the face of attack
rigidity;the quality of being rigid and rigorously severe
tactlessness;the quality of lacking tact
check;a mark left after a small piece has been chopped or broken off of something
crispiness;firm but easily broken
civility;formal or perfunctory politeness
nervelessness;fearless self-possession in the face of danger
ineffectualness;lacking the power to be effective
luster;a quality that outshines the usual
feasibility;the quality of being doable
wildness;a state of nature
asexuality;having no evident sex or sex organs
dissoluteness;indiscipline with regard to sensuous pleasures
drawing power;the capacity for attracting people (customers or supporters)
key;pitch of the voice. 'he spoke in a low key'
soprano;the pitch range of the highest female voice
graduality;the quality of being gradual or of coming about by gradual stages
magnetic flux density;the amount of magnetic flux in a unit area perpendicular to the direction of magnetic flow
subjectivity;judgment based on individual personal impressions and feelings and opinions rather than external facts
eyesore;something very ugly and offensive
prankishness;the trait of indulging in disreputable pranks
royal purple;a shade of purple tinged with red
accuracy;the quality of being accurate and without error. 'the lawyer questioned the accuracy of my account'. 'he was beginning to doubt the truth of his compass'
sumptuosity;the quality possessed by something that is excessively expensive
luminance;the quality of being luminous. emitting or reflecting light. 'its luminosity is measured relative to that of our sun'
permutableness;ability to change sequence
news;the quality of being sufficiently interesting to be reported in news bulletins. 'the judge conceded the newsworthiness of the trial'. 'he is no longer news in the fashion world'
untidiness;the trait of being untidy and messy
vanity;the trait of being vain and conceited
nature worship;a system of religion that deifies and worships natural forces and phenomena
gelatinousness;the property of having a viscosity like jelly
torpor;inactivity resulting from torpidity and lack of vigor or energy
revivalism;an attempt to reawaken the evangelical faith
eyedness;the property of favoring one eye over the other (as in taking aim)
periodicity;the quality of recurring at intervals
poker face;a face without any interpretable expression (as that of a good poker player)
silliness;an impulsive scatterbrained manner
faintness;the quality of being dim
vanity;the quality of being valueless or futile. 'he rejected the vanities of the world'
ringing;having the character of a loud deep sound
affinity;inherent resemblance between persons or things
precariousness;extreme dangerousness
geometrical irregularity;an irregular asymmetry in shape. an irregular spatial pattern
imperiousness;the trait of being imperious and overbearing
note;a characteristic emotional quality. 'it ended on a sour note'. 'there was a note of gaiety in her manner'. 'he detected a note of sarcasm'
dmd;a doctor's degree in dental medicine
convenience;the quality of being useful and convenient. 'they offered the convenience of an installment plan'
conscientiousness;the trait of being painstaking and careful
ambiguity;unclearness by virtue of having more than one meaning
disobedience;the trait of being unwilling to obey
guise;an artful or simulated semblance. 'under the guise of friendship he betrayed them'
fruitfulness;the quality of something that causes or assists healthy growth
activity;the trait of being active. moving or acting rapidly and energetically. 'the level of activity declines with age'
suitableness;the quality of having the properties that are right for a specific purpose. 'an important requirement is suitability for long trips'
impracticableness;the quality of not being usable
fluster;a disposition that is confused or nervous and upset
light brown;a brown that light but unsaturated
contempt;a manner that is generally disrespectful and contemptuous
foulness;the attribute of having a strong offensive smell
joviality;a jovial nature
weightiness;the property of being comparatively great in weight. 'the heaviness of lead'
indetermination;the quality of being vague and poorly defined
weakness;powerlessness revealed by an inability to act. 'in spite of their weakness the group remains highly active'
engrossment;the quality of being intent and concentrated. 'the intentness of his gaze'
gray;a neutral achromatic color midway between while and black
sky blue;a light shade of blue
audaciousness;aggressive boldness or unmitigated effrontery. 'he had the audacity to question my decision'
injustice;the practice of being unjust or unfair
dignity;the quality of being worthy of esteem or respect: 'it was beneath his dignity to cheat'. 'showed his true dignity when under pressure'
march;a degree granted for the successful completion of advanced study of architecture
alacrity;liveliness and eagerness. 'he accepted with alacrity'
initiative;readiness to embark on bold new ventures
credibility;the quality of being believable or trustworthy
market value;the price at which buyers and sellers trade the item in an open marketplace
rapacity;extreme gluttony
first quarter;the first fourth of the moon's period of revolution around the earth
hinayana;one of two great schools of buddhist doctrine emphasizing personal salvation through one's own efforts. chiefly in sri_lanka (ceylon). myanmar (burma). thailand. cambodia
constructiveness;the quality of serving to build or improve
paris green;a shade of green tinged with yellow
bulk;the property possessed by a large mass
self concern;attempting to get personal recognition for yourself (especially by unacceptable means)
messiness;the trait of being untidy and messy
recklessness;the trait of giving little thought to danger
soundness;the firmness and tone of healthy tissue: 'his muscle firmness'
doctor of philosophy;a doctorate awarded for original contributions to knowledgea doctorate awarded for original contributions to knowledge
yellowish green;a shade of green tinged with yellow
capacity;ability to perform or produce
color;interest and variety and intensity: 'the puritan period was lacking in color'
similitude;similarity in appearance or character or nature between persons or things: 'man created god in his own likeness'
question;uncertainty about the truth or factuality of existence of something. 'the dubiousness of his claim'. 'there is no question about the validity of the enterprise'
finiteness;the quality of being finite
ossification;hardened conventionality
cadence;a recurrent rhythmical series
homogeneity;the quality of being similar or comparable in kind or nature. 'there is a remarkable homogeneity between the two companies'
falseness;the quality of not being open or truthful. deceitful or hypocritical
echo;the persistence of a sound after its source has stopped
selfishness;stinginess resulting from a concern for your own welfare and a disregard of others
manner of walking;manner of walking. 'he had a funny walk'
weakness;the property of lacking physical or mental strength. liability to failure under pressure or stress or strain. 'his weakness increased as he became older'. 'the weakness of the span was overlooked until it collapsed'
sexlessness;having no evident sex or sex organs
wind deflection;the deflection of a projectile resulting from the effects of wind
doctor of medicine;a doctor's degree in medicine
expedience;taking advantage of opportunities without regard for the consequences for others
untruthfulness;the quality of being untruthful
odiousness;the quality of being offensive
seriousness;the quality of arousing fear or distress. 'he learned the seriousness of his illness'
reflection;the ability to reflect beams or rays
deflexion;the property of being bent or deflected
magnificence;the quality of being magnificent or splendid or grand
minority;being or relating to the smaller in number of two parts. 'when the vote was taken they were in the minority'. 'he held a minority position'
unaffectedness;not affected. a personal manner that is not consciously constrained
splodge;an irregularly shaped spot
form;any spatial attribute (especially as defined by outline). 'he could barely make out their shapes through the smoke'
noiselessness;the property of making no noise
covalency;valence characterized by the sharing of electrons in a chemical compound. the number of pairs of electrons an atom can share
self interest;taking advantage of opportunities without regard for the consequences for others
ill breeding;impoliteness resulting from ignorance
speciality;a distinguishing trait
unprotectedness;the property of being helpless in the face of attack
nastiness;the quality of being unpleasant. 'i flinched at the nastiness of his wound'
agelessness;the quality of being timeless and eternal
minuteness;the property of being very small in size
momentum;the product of a body's mass and its velocity. 'the momentum of the particles was deduced from meteoritic velocities'
lifestyle;a manner of living that reflects the person's values and attitudes
predisposition;a disposition in advance to react in a particular way
gregariousness;the quality of being gregarious--having a dislike of being alone
agerasia;youthful appearance in an old person
grace;a sense of propriety and consideration for others
inordinateness;immoderation as a consequence of going beyond sufficient or permitted limits
elasticity of shear;the elasticity of a body that has been pulled out of shape by a shearing force
hike;an increase in cost. 'they asked for a 10% rise in rates'
homology;the quality of being similar or corresponding in position or value or structure or function
demureness;the trait of behaving with reserve and decorum
finality;the quality of being final or definitely settled: 'the finality of death'
master of science in engineering;a master's degree in engineering
mindlessness;the trait of acting rashly and without prudence
ignobleness;the quality of being ignoble
voice;the distinctive quality or pitch or condition of a person's speech. 'a shrill voice sounded behind us'
impulse;an impelling force or strength. 'the car's momentum carried it off the road'
multitudinousness;a very large number (especially of people)
lushness;the property of being lush and abundant
silver;a light shade of gray
sanctimoniousness;the quality of being hypocritically devout
incompetency;lack of physical or intellectual ability or qualifications
congruousness;the quality of agreeing. being suitable and appropriate
doctor of optometry;a doctor's degree in optometry
justness;the quality of being just or fair
impertinence;inappropriate playfulness
unconcern;the trait of remaining calm and seeming not to care. a casual lack of concern
favorableness;the quality of being encouraging or promising of a successful outcome
guard;a posture of defence in boxing or fencing. 'keep your guard up'
physical ability;the ability to perform some physical act. contrasting with mental ability
untrustworthiness;the trait of not deserving trust or confidence
rebelliousness;intentionally contemptuous behavior or attitude
artsd;an honorary arts degree
casualness;a casual manner
effortlessness;the quality of requiring little effort. 'such effortlessness is achieved only after hours of practice'
common touch;the property of appealing to people in general (usually by appearing to have qualities in common with them)
morality;concern with the distinction between good and evil or right and wrong. right or good conduct
rest mass;(physics) the mass of a body as measured when the body is at rest relative to an observer, an inherent property of the body
cleverness;the property of being ingenious. 'a plot of great ingenuity'. 'the cleverness of its design'
good fellowship;spirit of friendly familiarity and goodwill between comrades
unrighteousness;failure to adhere to moral principles
sounding;a measure of the depth of water taken by sounding
brownish yellow;yellow of low lightness with a brownish tinge
inertia;a disposition to remain inactive or inert. 'he had to overcome his inertia and get back to work'
obstreperousness;noisy defiance
expensiveness;the quality of being high-priced
lenity;mercifulness as a consequence of being lenient or tolerant
chartreuse;a shade of green tinged with yellow
actinism;the property of radiation that enables it to produce photochemical effects
help;a means of serving. 'of no avail'. 'there's no help for it'
slickness;a kind of fluent easy superficiality. 'the glibness of a high-pressure salesman'
odor;any property detected by the olfactory system
gracelessness;the inelegance of someone stiff and unrelaxed (as by embarrassment)
fragility;quality of being easily damaged or destroyed
traditionality;strict adherence to traditional methods or teachings
roominess;spatial largeness (especially inside a building)
tastefulness;elegance indicated by good taste
burn mark;a burned place or area
courageousness;a quality of spirit that enables you to face danger of pain without showing fear
dedication;complete and wholehearted fidelity
animal magnetism;magnetic personal charm
lung power;the ability to speak loudly
poison;anything that harms or destroys. 'the poison of fascism'
limitlessness;the quality of being infinite. without bound or limit
convexness;the property possessed by a convex shape
credulity;tendency to believe readily
disreputableness;dishonorableness by virtue of lacking respectability or a good reputation
barrenness;a condition yielding nothing of value
gravity;a manner that is serious and solemn
acceptability;satisfactoriness by virtue of conforming to approved standards
geometrical regularity;a property of polygons: the property of having equal sides and equal angles
porosity;the property of being porous. being able to absorb fluids
jocosity;the trait of merry joking
dead hand;the oppressive influence of past events of decisions
guile;the quality of being crafty
weather eye;vigilant attentiveness. 'he keeps a weather eye open for trouble'
style;a manner of performance. 'a manner of living'. 'in the characteristic new york style'. 'a way of life'
vastness;unusual largeness in size or extent
energy;an exertion of force. 'he plays tennis with great energy'
hubris;overbearing pride or presumption
rotundity;the roundness of a 3-dimensional object
muscle;muscular strength
gleaming;an appearance of reflected light
unintelligibility;incomprehensibility as a consequence of being unintelligible
piquancy;a tart spiciness
inconsequence;having no important effects or influence
implicitness;inexplicitness as a consequence of being implied or indirect
penetrability;the permeability of something that can be penetrated by a liquid
whimsicality;the trait of acting more from whim or caprice than from reason or judgment
measure;magnitude as determined by measurement or calculation
sameness;the quality of wearisome constancy and lack of variety. 'he had never grown accustomed to the monotony of his work'. 'he hated the sameness of the food the college served'
despicability;unworthiness by virtue of lacking higher values
strawberry;a soft red birthmark
illogicality;invalid or incorrect reasoning
naivete;lack of sophistication or worldliness
verve;an energetic style
magnetic intensity;the amount of magnetic flux in a unit area perpendicular to the direction of magnetic flow
urgency;pressing importance requiring speedy action: 'the urgency of his need'
timbre;the distinctive property of a complex sound (a voice or noise or musical sound). 'the timbre of her soprano was rich and lovely'. 'the muffled tones of the broken bell summoned them to meet'
unequivocalness;clarity achieved by the avoidance of ambiguity
spatiality;any property relating to or occupying space
m;concentration measured by the number of moles of solute per liter of solvent
arabesque;position in which the dancer has one leg raised behind and arms outstretched in a conventional pose
good nature;a cheerful, obliging disposition
half moon;the time at which the moon is at first or last quarter when half its face is illuminated
speciality;an asset of special worth or utility. 'cooking is his forte'
commodiousness;spatial largeness (especially inside a building)
exquisiteness;extreme beauty of a delicate sort
linkage;(genetics) traits that tend to be inherited together as a consequence of an association between their genes
resiliency;irrepressible liveliness and good spirit. 'i admired his bouyancy and persistent good humor'
objectivity;judgment based on observable phenomena and uninfluenced by emotions or personal prejudices
rapidity;a rate that is rapid
blueness;the color of the clear sky in the daytime. 'he had eyes of bright blue'
creditworthiness;trustworthiness with money
homeliness;an appearance that is not attractive or beautiful. 'fine clothes could not conceal the girl's homeliness'
retention;the power of retaining liquid: 'moisture retentivity of soil'
crudity;an impolite manner that is vulgar and lacking tact or refinement. 'the whole town was famous for its crudeness'
md;a doctor's degree in medicine
pugnacity;a disposition to fight
familiarity;a casual manner
infelicity;inappropriate and unpleasing manner or style esp of expression
solidity;the consistency of a solid
strength;capability in terms of personnel and materiel. 'we faced an army of great strength'
vainglory;outspoken conceit
chip;a mark left after a small piece has been chopped or broken off of something
americanism;loyalty to the usa and its institutions
originality;the quality of being new and original (not derived from something else)
badness;an attribute of mischievous children
perkiness;inappropriate playfulness
turnover;the volume measured in dollars. 'the store's dollar volume continues to rise'
decency;the quality of being polite and respectable
persona;(jungian psychology) a personal facade one presents to the world. 'a public image is as fragile as humpty dumpty'
taoism;popular chinese philosophical system based in teachings of lao-tse but characterized by a pantheism of many gods and the practices of alchemy and divination and magic
noticeableness;the property of being easy to see and understand
diameter;the length of a straight line passing through the center of a circle and connecting two points on the circumference
covetousness;extreme greed for material wealth
crust;the trait of being rude and impertinent. inclined to take liberties
rise;the amount a salary is increased. 'he got a raise'. 'he got a wage hike'
shiftlessness;a failure to be active as a consequence of lack of initiative or ambition
restraint;discipline in personal and social activities. 'he was a model of polite restraint'. 'she never lost control of herself'
insalubriousness;the quality of being insalubrious and debilitating
play;movement or space for movement. 'there was too much play in the steering wheel'
longness;duration as an extension
self discipline;the trait of practicing self discipline
venality;prostitution of talents or offices or services for reward
paleness;the property of having a naturally light complexion
profitability;the quality of affording gain or benefit or profit
self indulgence;an inability to resist the gratification of whims and desires
plainness;clarity as a consequence of being perspicuous
disharmony;a lack of harmony
givenness;the quality of being granted as a supposition. of being acknowledged or assumed
subversiveness;disloyalty by virtue of subversive behavior
computer architecture;(computer science) the structure and organization of a computer's hardware or system software
fieriness;the heat of fire
increment;the amount by which something increases. 'they proposed an increase of 15 percent in the fare'
wingspan;linear distance between the extremities of an airfoil
humorousness;the trait of merry joking
voodoo;a religious cult practiced chiefly in caribbean countries (especially haiti). involves witchcraft and animistic deities
sensitivity;the ability to respond to affective changes in your interpersonal environment
clarity;the quality of clear water. 'when she awoke the clarity was back in her eyes'
rhythm;recurring at regular intervals. 'the rhythm of the seasons'
refractoriness;the trait of being unmanageable
laboriousness;the quality of requiring extended effort
harmfulness;destructiveness that causes harm or injury
lead;the timing of ignition relative to the position of the piston in an internal-combustion engine
last quarter;the last fourth of the moon's period of revolution around the earth
perspicuity;clarity as a consequence of being perspicuous
circumference;the size of something as given by the distance around it
ataraxia;peace of mind
respectability;honorableness by virtue of being respectable and having a good reputation
b.o.;malodourousness resulting from a failure to bathe
presumption;audacious (even arrogant) behavior that you have no right to. 'he despised them for their presumptuousness'
am;a master's degree in arts and sciences
impotence;the quality of lacking strength or power. being weak and feeble
impermeability;the property of something that cannot be pervaded by a liquid
allowance;a permissible difference
naturalness;the quality of being natural or based on natural principles: 'he accepted the naturalness of death'. 'the spontaneous naturalness of his manner'
godliness;piety by virtue of being a godly person
richness;the property of being extremely abundant
crassness;the quality of being crass--devoid of refinement
value;relative darkness or lightness of a color: 'i establish the colors and principal values by organizing the painting into three values--dark, medium...and light'-joe hing lowe
structure;the manner of construction of something and the disposition of its parts. 'artists must study the structure of the human body'. 'the architecture of a computer's system software'
strikingness;the quality of standing out strongly and distinctly
vishnuism;worship of vishnu one of the 3 chief gods of the hindu pantheon
androgyny;showing characteristics of both sexes
virulence;extreme hostility. 'the virulence of the malicious old man'
commonality;sharing of common attributes
staidness;a trait of dignified seriousness
texture;the musical pattern created by parts being played or sung together. 'then another melodic line is added to the texture'
solemness;a trait of dignified seriousness
upper hand;position of advantage and control
desirableness;attractiveness to the opposite sex
incredibility;the quality of being incredible
exuberance;overflowing with enthusiasm
intentionality;expressive of intentions
selflessness;the quality of unselfish concern for the welfare of others
phase of the moon;a time when the moon presents a particular recurring appearance
picturesqueness;visually vivid and pleasing
unpalatableness;the property of being unacceptable to the taste
scarceness;a small and inadequate amount
asthenic type;slender, weak, and lightweight
flabbiness;a flabby softness
head tone;the higher ranges of the voice in speaking or singing. the vibrations of sung notes are felt in the head
fogginess;the quality of being indistinct
imperishability;the property of being resistant to decay. 'he advertised the imperishability of the product'
digestibility;the property of being easy to digest
wind exposure;exposure to the wind (as the exposed part of a vessel's hull which is responsible for wind resistance)
high spirits;exuberant liveliness
fault;responsibility for a bad situation or event. 'it was john's fault'
hurriedness;overly eager speed (and possible carelessness). 'he soon regretted his haste'
style;distinctive and stylish elegance. 'he wooed her with the confident dash of a cavalry officer'
register;the timbre characteristic of a certain range and manner of production of the human voice
curtailment;the temporal property of being cut short
jauntiness;a breezy liveliness. 'a delightful breeziness of manner'
triangularity;the property of being shaped like a triangle
coating;a decorative texture or appearance of a surface. 'the boat had a metallic finish'
variety;noticeable heterogeneity. 'a diversity of possibilities'. 'the range and variety of his work is amazing'
three dimensionality;the property of having three dimensions
militancy;a militant aggressiveness
hardness;the quality of being difficult to do. 'he assigned a series of problems of increasing hardness'
lightsomeness;the gracefulness of a person or animal that is quick and nimble
strength;an asset of special worth or utility. 'cooking is his forte'
wesleyanism;evangelical principles taught by john wesley
hurry;overly eager speed (and possible carelessness). 'he soon regretted his haste'
judaism;the monotheistic religion of the jews. based on the old testament and the talmud
coldness;the absence of heat. 'the coldness made our breath visible'. 'come in out of the cold'
forgivingness;tendency to be kind and forgiving
amenability;the trait of being cooperative
virtuousness;the quality of doing what is right and avoiding what is wrong
smirch;a blemish made by dirt. 'he had a smudge on his cheek'
immunity;the quality of being unaffected by something. 'immunity to criticism'
abnormality;marked strangeness as a consequence of being abnormal
integrity;moral soundness
personal manner;a way of acting or behaving
mole;a small congenital pigmented spot on the skin
sex;the properties that distinguish organisms on the basis of their reproductive roles. 'she didn't want to know the sex of the foetus'
swarthiness;a swarthy complexion
circumspection;the trait of being circumspect and prudent
hsuan chiao;popular chinese philosophical system based in teachings of lao-tse but characterized by a pantheism of many gods and the practices of alchemy and divination and magic
convincingness;the power of argument or evidence to cause belief
sivaism;worship of shiva one of the 3 chief gods of the hindu pantheon
bearing;characteristic way of bearing one's body: 'stood with good posture'
frostiness;a silvery-white color
insipidity;lacking any distinctive or interesting taste property
machismo;exaggerated masculinity
licentiousness;the quality of being lewd and lascivious
legitimacy;undisputed credibility
unreliability;the trait of not being dependable or reliable
vim;an imaginative lively style (especially style of writing). 'his writing conveys great energy'
opacity;incomprehensibility resulting from obscurity of meaning
reasonableness;goodness of reason and judgment. 'the judiciary is built on the reasonableness of judges'
body temperature;normal body temperature. 98.6f or 37 c
insolence;the trait of being rude and impertinent. inclined to take liberties
grotesquerie;ludicrous or incongruous unnaturalness or distortion
tangibleness;the quality of being perceivable by touch
poise;great coolness and composure under strain. 'keep your cool'
blotch;an irregularly shaped spot
light;brightness and animation of countenance. 'he had a sparkle in his eye'
proficiency;the quality of having great facility and competence
acceleration;increase in velocity
courtesy;a courteous manner
incompetence;lack of physical or intellectual ability or qualifications
build;constitution of the human body
incomprehensibility;the quality of being incomprehensible
uniformity;the quality of lacking diversity or variation (even to the point of boredom)
scent;any property detected by the olfactory system
surprisingness;extraordinariness by virtue of being unexpected. 'the unexpectedness of the warm welcome'
reasonableness;the property of being moderate in price. 'the store is famous for the reasonableness of its prices'
succession;a following of one thing after another in time. 'the doctor saw a sequence of patients'
crotchet;a strange attitude or habit
boringness;extreme dullness
unmalleability;a lack of malleability
worth;the quality that renders something desirable or valuable or useful
voluminosity;greatness of volume
squattiness;a short and stout physique
venetian red;a shade of brown with a tinge of red
liveliness;animation and energy in action or expression. 'it was a heavy play and the actors tried in vain to give life to it'
savoir faire;social skill
frolicsomeness;lively high-spirited playfulness
restraint;lack of ornamentation
blatancy;the property of being both obvious and offensive. 'the blatancy of his attempt to whitewash the crime was unforgivable'
elongation;the quality of being elongated
vinegarishness;a sourness resembling that of vinegar
tone;a quality of a given color that differs slightly from a primary color. 'after several trials he mixed the shade of pink that she wanted'
prosiness;commonplaceness as a consequence of being humdrum and not exciting
width;the extent of something from side to side
malice;the quality of threatening evil
officiousness;aggressiveness as evidenced by intruding--by advancing oneself or one's ideas without invitation
amicability;having a disposition characterized by warmth and friendliness
lucidity;free from obscurity and easy to understand. the comprehensibility of clear expression
touch;a distinguishing style. 'this room needs a woman's touch'
olive;a yellow-green color of low brightness and saturation
red;the quality or state of the chromatic color resembling the hue of blood
abstinence;the trait of abstaining (especially from alcohol)
perversity;deliberate unruliness
hoodooism;a religious cult practiced chiefly in caribbean countries (especially haiti). involves witchcraft and animistic deities
multiplicity;a large number
intentness;the quality of being intent and concentrated. 'the intentness of his gaze'
availableness;the quality of being at hand when needed
coarctation;(biology) a congenital narrowing of the aorta
greenish blue;a shade of blue tinged with green
scrupulousness;conformity to high standards of ethics or excellence
spiritedness;quality of being active or spirited or vigorous
delicacy;subtly skillful handling of a situation
obesity;more than average fatness
stateliness;a elaborate manner of doing something. 'she served coffee with great stateliness'
double first;(great britain) a first-class honours degree in two subjects
confines;a bounded scope. 'he stayed with the confines of the city'
hell to pay;dire consequences. 'when the pig ran away there was hell to pay'
tax increase;the amount by which taxes are increased. 'a tax increase of 15 percent'
zing;a activeness of an energetic personality
enervation;lack of vitality. 'an enervation of mind greater than any fatigue'
olive brown;a shade of brown tinged with green
margin;a permissible difference
lodging;the state or quality of being lodged or fixed even temporarily: 'the lodgment of the balloon in the tree'
cuteness;the quality of being appealing in a delicate or graceful way (of a girl or young woman)
average cost;total cost for all units bought (or produced) divided by the number of units
endurance;the power to withstand hardship or stress
covalence;valence characterized by the sharing of electrons in a chemical compound. the number of pairs of electrons an atom can share
unction;smug self-serving earnestness
freshness;originality by virtue of being refreshingly novel
insignificance;the quality of having little or no significance
anteriority;preceding in time
mystique;an aura of heightened value or interest or meaning surrounding a person or thing
turkey red;a bright orange-red color produced in cotton cloth with alizarine dye
pyknic type;round, fat, and heavy
perviousness;the permeability of something that can be penetrated by a liquid
tax assessment;the value set on taxable property
maleficence;the quality or nature of being harmful or evil
tractability;the trait of being easily persuaded
spot;an outstanding characteristic. 'his acting was one of the high points of the movie'
reliableness;the trait of being dependable or reliable
low pitch;a pitch that is perceived as below other pitches
inclemency;excessive sternness. 'the severity of his punishment was inhuman'
get up and go;enterprising or ambitious drive. 'europeans often laugh at american energy'
plangency;having the character of a loud deep sound
girlishness;being characteristic of a girl
assertiveness;aggressive self-assurance. given to making bold assertions
indian red;a reddish brown resembling the red soil used as body paint by american indians
inflexibility;a lack of physical flexibility
prolongation;amount or degree or range to which something extends: 'the wire has an extension of 50 feet'
size;a large magnitude. 'he blanched when he saw the size of the bill'. 'the only city of any size in that area'
cadency;a recurrent rhythmical series
subsequence;following in time
impression;an outward appearance. 'he made a good impression'. 'i wanted to create an impression of success'. 'she retained that bold effect in her reproductions of the original painting'
utility;the quality of being of practical use
depth;extent downward or backward or inward: 'the depth of the water'. 'depth of a shelf'. 'depth of a closet'
sound judgement;the capacity to assess situations or circumstances shrewdly and to draw sound conclusions
silver standard;a monetary standard under which the basic unit of currency is defined by a stated quantity of silver
bachelor s degree;an academic degree conferred on someone who has successfully completed undergraduate studies
gross national product;former measure of the us economy. the total market value of goods and services produced by all citizens and capital during a given period (usually 1 yr)
rapport;sympathetic compatibility
specificity;the quality of being specific to a particular organism: 'host specificity of a parasite'
reverberation;the persistence of a sound after its source has stopped
manageableness;capable of being managed or controlled
simplicity;freedom from difficulty or hardship or effort: 'he rose through the ranks with apparent ease'. 'they put it into containers for ease of transportation'
closeness;extreme stinginess
detergence;the quality of having cleansing power
quaintness;strangeness as a consequence of being old fashioned. 'some words in her dialect had a charming quaintness'
deep brown;a medium to dark brown color
tint;a quality of a given color that differs slightly from a primary color. 'after several trials he mixed the shade of pink that she wanted'
greyish brown;a color varying around light grayish brown. 'she wore a dun raincoat'
audacity;aggressive boldness or unmitigated effrontery. 'he had the audacity to question my decision'
circumference;the length of the closed curve of a circle
calibre;a degree or grade of excellence or worth: 'the quality of students has risen'. 'an executive of low caliber'
obscurity;the quality of being unclear or abstruse and hard to understand
ruggedness;the property of being big and strong
regularity;a property of polygons: the property of having equal sides and equal angles
decrescendo;(music) a gradual decrease in loudness
moldiness;the quality of smelling or tasting old or stale or mouldy
conduct;behavioral attributes
unmanageableness;the trait of being unmanageable
alienage;the quality of being alien
grandness;the quality of being magnificent or splendid or grand
simplicity;the quality of being simple or uncompounded. 'the simplicity of a crystal'
esprit de corps;the spirit of a group that makes the members want the group to succeed
blondness;the property of having a naturally light complexion
savoriness;having an appetizing flavor
animateness;having animal life as distinguished from plant life: 'full of life'
equivalent;the atomic weight of an element that has the same combining capacity as a given weight of another element. the standard is 8 for oxygen
glitter;the quality of glittering or sparkling brightly
catholicity;the quality of being universal. existing everywhere
longevity;the property of being long-lived
superabundance;a quantity that is more than what is appropriate. 'four-year-olds have an overabundance of energy'
judgement;the capacity to assess situations or circumstances shrewdly and to draw sound conclusions
foolhardiness;the trait of giving little thought to danger
mass defect;the amount by which the mass of an atomic nucleus is less than the sum of the masses of its constituent particles
point;a distinguishing or individuating characteristic. 'he knows my bad points as well as my good points'
essentiality;basic importance
analogy;similarity in some respect between things that are otherwise dissimilar: 'the operation of a computer presents an interesting analogy to the working of the brain'
slightness;the property of an attractively thin person
sedateness;a trait of dignified seriousness
haughtiness;overbearing pride evidenced by a superior manner toward inferiors
coherency;logical and orderly and consistent relation of parts
viscidness;the property of being cohesive and sticky
nimbleness;the gracefulness of a person or animal that is quick and nimble
unfamiliarity;unusualness as a consequence of not being well known
whitehead;a small whitish lump in the skin due to a clogged sebaceous gland
impropriety;an improper demeanor
change;a difference that is usually pleasant. 'he goes to france for variety'. 'it is a refreshing change to meet a woman mechanic'
huskiness;the property of being big and strong
disorderliness;untidiness (especially of clothing and appearance)
futility;uselessness as a consequence of having no practical result
magical power;an ability to perform magic
arm s length;a distance sufficient to exclude intimacy
puerility;a property characteristic of a child
bubbliness;the property of giving off bubbles
wickedness;estrangement from god
introversion;an introverted disposition. concern with one's own thoughts and feelings
harshness;excessive sternness. 'the severity of his punishment was inhuman'
virtue;any admirable quality or attribute. 'work of great merit'
destructiveness;the quality of causing destruction
quirkiness;a strange attitude or habit
view;the range of interest or activity that can be anticipated. 'it is beyond the horizon of present knowledge'
ingenuousness;openly straightforward or frank
limit;the greatest possible degree of something: 'what he did was beyond the bounds of acceptable behavior'. 'to the limit of his ability'
nobility;the quality of being exalted in character or ideals or conduct
willpower;control of one's behavior
evangelicalism;stresses the importance of personal conversion and faith as the means of salvation
explicitness;clarity as a consequence of being explicit
docility;the trait of being agreeably submissive and manageable
vigour;an imaginative lively style (especially style of writing). 'his writing conveys great energy'
unacceptability;unsatisfactoriness by virtue of not conforming to approved standards
timeliness;timely convenience
stridency;having the timbre of a loud high-pitched sound
dearth;an insufficient quantity or number
smoke;(informal) something with no concrete substance. 'his dreams all turned to smoke'. 'it was just smoke and mirrors'
succulence;a juicy appetizingness
philharmonic pitch;the pitch used to tune instruments for concert performances. usually assigns 440 hz to the a above middle c
cobalt blue;a shade of blue tinged with green
single mindedness;characterized by one unified purpose
decrease;the amount by which something decreases
impotency;the quality of lacking strength or power. being weak and feeble
rate;the relative speed of progress or change. 'he lived at a fast pace'. 'he works at a great rate'. 'the pace of events accelerated'
goodwill;a disposition to kindness and compassion. benign good will: 'the victor's grace in treating the vanquished'
abstemiousness;moderation in eating and drinking
pizzazz;a activeness of an energetic personality
unitarianism;christian doctrine that stresses individual freedom of belief and rejects the trinity
differential;a quality that differentiates between similar things
third dimensionality;the property of having three dimensions
effeminacy;the trait of being effeminate (derogatory of a man)
lawlessness;illegality as a consequence of unlawful acts
overlap;the property of partial coincidence in time
defencelessness;the property of being helpless in the face of attack
tidiness;the trait of being neat and orderly
old rose;a greyish-pink color
hue;the quality of a color as determined by its dominant wavelength
amplification;the amount of increase in signal power or voltage or current expressed as the ratio of output to input
import;having important effects or influence. 'decisions of great consequence are made by the president himself'. 'virtue is of more moment that security'
humanness;the quality of being human
maleness;the properties characteristic of the male sex
ruby;a deep and vivid red
sapphire;a light shade of blue
malleability;the property of being physically malleable. the property of something that can be worked or hammered or shaped under pressure without breaking
bullheadedness;resolute adherence to your own ideas or desires
infeasibility;the quality of not being doable
agreeableness;a temperamental disposition to be agreeable
melodiousness;the property of having a melody
venturesomeness;the trait of being adventurous
unwiseness;the trait of acting stupidly or rashly
sunniness;lightness created by sunlight
perspicacity;the capacity to assess situations or circumstances shrewdly and to draw sound conclusions
sissiness;the trait of being effeminate (derogatory of a man)
reins;power to control. 'the reins of government'
radiancy;the quality of being bright and sending out rays of light
boastfulness;outspoken conceit
doggedness;persistent determination
zen buddhism;doctrine that enlightenment can be attained through direct intuitive insight
praisworthiness;the property of deserving praise
impiousness;unrighteousness by virtue of lacking respect for a god
raw sienna;a medium to dark tan color
paganism;any of various religions other than christianity or judaism or islamism
color;a visual attribute of things that results from the light they emit or transmit or reflect. 'white is the coolest summer color'
deadliness;the quality of being deadly
heartiness;the quality of hearty sincerity
valiancy;the qualities of a hero or heroine. exceptional or heroic courage when facing danger (especially in battle). 'he showed great heroism in battle'. 'he received a medal for valor'
r;the length of a line segment between the center and circumference of a circle or sphere
lure;qualities that attract by seeming to promise some kind of reward
indirectness;having the characteristic of lacking a true course toward a goal
neighbourliness;a disposition to be friendly and helpful to neighbors
control;power to direct or determine: 'under control'
scandalousness;disgracefulness that offends public morality
row;a continuous chronological succession without an interruption. 'they won the championship three years in a row'
sliminess;the quality of being disgusting to the senses or emotions
cut price;a price below the standard price
rusticity;the quality of being rustic or gauche
carmine;a variable color averaging a vivid red
plentitude;a full supply. 'there was plenty of food for everyone'
bilaterality;the property of being symmetrical about a vertical plane
interest;a reason for wanting something done. 'for your sake'. 'died for the sake of his country'. 'in the interest of safety'. 'in the common interest'
tiresomeness;dullness owing to length or slowness
caution;the trait of being circumspect and prudent
ghastliness;the quality of being ghastly
unsavoriness;extreme unpalatability
pizzaz;a activeness of an energetic personality
roundedness;the property possessed by a rounded convexity
thickness;used of a line or mark
transparency;the quality of being clear and transparent
degree;an award conferred by a college or university signifying that the recipient has satisfactorily completed a course of study. 'he earned his degree at princeton summa cum laude'
tolerance;the power or capacity of an organism to tolerate unfavorable environmental conditions
unseemliness;a lack of consideration for others
devoutness;piety by virtue of being devout
arduousness;extreme effortfulness
expansiveness;a quality characterized by magnificence of scale. 'the expansiveness of their extravagant life style was soon curtailed'
nubbiness;looseness or roughness in texture (as of cloth)
glaze;a glossy finish on a fabric
slovenliness;habitual uncleanliness
flippancy;inappropriate levity
pensiveness;deep serious thoughtfulness
exotism;the quality of being exotic. 'he loved the exocitism of egypt'
greediness;an excessive desire for food
theological virtue;according to christian ethics: one of the three virtues (faith and hope and charity) created by god to round out the natural virtues
outrageousness;the quality of being outrageous
economy;frugality in the expenditure of money or resources. 'the scots are famous for their economy'
unsteadiness;the quality of not being steady or securely fixed in place
disgustingness;extreme unpalatability
improperness;an improper demeanor
inevitableness;the quality of being unavoidable
deepness;a low pitch that is loud and voluminous
magnetic induction;the amount of magnetic flux in a unit area perpendicular to the direction of magnetic flow
unpretentiousness;the quality of being natural and without pretensions
feminineness;the properties characteristic of the female sex
stodginess;dull and pompous gravity
enthalpy;the sum of the internal energy of a system and the product of its volume and pressure
lamaism;tibetan buddhist doctrine including non-buddhist indian elements and elements of preexisting shamanism
dew point;the temperature at which condensation begins
insensitiveness;the inability to respond to affective changes in your interpersonal environment
quackerism;doctrine characterized by opposition to war and rejection of ritual and a formal creed and an ordained ministry
largeness;the property of having a relatively great size
protestantism;the theological system of any of the churches of western christendom that separated from the roman catholic church during the reformation
endlessness;the property of being (or seeming to be) without end
seating capacity;the number of people that can be seated in a vehicle or auditorium or stadium etc.
iron mold;a spot caused the staining with rust or ink
expedience;the quality of being suited to the end in view
predictability;the quality of being predictable
tanginess;a tart spiciness
ribaldry;behavior or language bordering on indelicacy
empurpled;a chromatic color between red and blue
descent;properties attributable to your ancestry. 'he comes from good origins'
kindliness;friendliness evidence by a kindly and helpful disposition
drabness;lacking stylishness or neatness
vapidness;the quality of being vapid and unsophisticated
continuity;the property of a continuous and connected period of time
luster;the visual property of something that shines with reflected light
limpidity;free from obscurity and easy to understand. the comprehensibility of clear expression
adequateness;the quality of being able to meet a need satisfactorily: 'he questioned the adequacy of the usual sentimental interpretation of the golden rule
indomitability;the property being difficult or impossible to defeat
convexity;the property possessed by a convex shape
heart;an inclination or tendency of a certain kind. 'he had a change of heart'
defect;a mark or flaw that spoils the appearance of something (especially on a person's body)
sonorousness;having the character of a loud deep sound
reddish brown;a shade of brown with a tinge of red
vitality;an energetic style
cloudlessness;the lightness of a sunny day when there are no clouds in the sky
lenience;mercifulness as a consequence of being lenient or tolerant
mawkishness;falsely emotional in a maudlin way
dauntlessness;resolute courageousness
brownness;an orange of low brightness and saturation
heterogeneousness;the quality of being diverse and not comparable in kind
unrespectability;dishonorableness by virtue of lacking respectability or a good reputation
posturing;adopting a vain conceited posture
strangeness;unusualness as a consequence of not being well known
niggardliness;extreme stinginess
mistiness;cloudiness resulting from haze or mist
unctuousness;smug self-serving earnestness
purplish blue;a shade of blue tinged with purple
modernness;the quality of being current or of the present: 'a shopping mall would instill a spirit of modernity into this village'
foreignness;the quality of being alien or not native: 'the strangeness of a foreigner'
tenuity;a rarified quality: 'the tenuity of the upper atmosphere'
ginger;liveliness and energy. 'this tonic is guaranteed to give you more pep'
self control;control of one's behavior
legal power;(law) the right and power to interpret and apply the law: 'courts having jurisdiction in this district'
readability;written language that is readily intelligible
slub;soft lump or unevenness in a yarn. either an imperfection or created by design
birthmark;a blemish on the skin formed before birth
interest;the power of attracting or holding one's interest (because it is unusual or exciting etc.). 'they said nothing of great interest'. 'primary colors can add interest to a room'
hardihood;the trait of being willing to undertake things that involve risk or danger. 'the proposal required great boldness'
indefatigability;tireless determination
voraciousness;extreme gluttony
radial symmetry;the property of symmetry about an axis. 'the starfish illustrates radial symmetry'
fluctuation;the quality of being unsteady and subject to fluctuations. 'he kept a record of price fluctuations'
semblance;outward or token appearance or form. 'he tried to give his actions a semblance of authenticity'. 'the situation soon took on a different color'
parsimoniousness;extreme stinginess
openness;characterized by an attitude of ready accessibility esp about one's actions or purposes. not secretive
range;an area in which something acts or operates or has power or control: 'the range of a supersonic jet'. 'the ambit of municipal legislation'. 'within the compass of this article'. within the scope of an investigation'. 'outside the reach of the law'. 'in the political orbit of a world power'
physicality;preoccupation with satisfaction of physical drives and appetites
crispness;a pleasing firmness and freshness: 'crispness of new dollar bills'. 'crispness of fresh lettuce'
glossiness;the property of being smooth and shiny
religious belief;a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny. 'he lost his faith but not his morality'
diplomacy;wisdom in the management of public affairs
blaze;great brightness. 'a glare of sunlight'. 'the flowers were a blaze of color'
temperament;excessive emotionalism or irritability and excitability (especially when displayed openly)
dun;a color varying around light grayish brown. 'she wore a dun raincoat'
lowness;the condition of being low. lacking height
inexorableness;mercilessness characterized by an unwillingness to relent or let up. 'the relentlessness or their pursuit'
status seeking;a drive to acquire power
whimsy;the trait of acting more from whim or caprice than from reason or judgment
honorary degree;a degree conferred to honor the recipient
tomboyishness;masculinity in women (especially in girls and young women)
indulgence;an inability to resist the gratification of whims and desires
organisation;an ordered manner. orderliness by virtue of being methodical and well organized. 'his compulsive organization was not an endearing quality'. 'we can't do it unless we establish some system around here'
familiarity;usualness by virtue of being familiar or well known
loquacity;the quality of being wordy and talkative
bigness;the property of having a relatively great size
quickness;a rate that is rapid
haste;overly eager speed (and possible carelessness). 'he soon regretted his haste'
master s degree;an academic degree higher than a bachelor's but lower than a doctor's
temperature;the degree of hotness or coldness of a body or environment (corresponding to its molecular activity)
sphericalness;the roundness of a 3-dimensional object
degree;a position on a scale of intensity or amount or quality: 'a moderate degree of intelligence'. 'a high level of care is required'. 'it is all a matter of degree'
still;(poetic) tranquil silence. 'the still of the night'
grain;the direction or texture of fibers found in wood or leather or stone or in a woven fabric: 'saw the board across the grain'
specificity;the quality of being specific rather than general: 'add a desirable note of specificity to the discussion'. 'the specificity of the symptoms of the disease'
strong point;an asset of special worth or utility. 'cooking is his forte'
discordance;a harsh mixture of sounds
desire;an inclination to want things. 'a man of many desires'
resort;something or someone turned to for assistance or security: 'his only recourse was the police'. 'took refuge in lying'
obliquity;the quality of being deceptive
seemliness;a sense of propriety and consideration for others
conclusiveness;the quality of being final or definitely settled: 'the finality of death'
fidelity;the quality of being faithful
umber;a medium to dark brown color
inadmissibility;unacceptability as a consequence of not being admissible
pliantness;the property of being pliant
tastelessness;the property of having no flavor
roguishness;the trait of indulging in disreputable pranks
conventionalism;orthodoxy as a consequence of being conventional
vulnerability;susceptibility to injury or attack
irreligiousness;the quality of not being devout
coldness;a lack of passion or enthusiasm
scarcity;a small and inadequate amount
force;a powerful effect or influence: 'the force of his eloquence easily persuaded them'
coyness;the affectation of being demure in a provocative way
wrongness;inappropriate conduct
humbleness;a disposition to be humble. a lack of false pride. 'not everyone regards humility as a virtue'
mirror image;a likeness in which left and right are reversed
differential cost;the increase or decrease in costs as a result of one more or one less unit of output
iron blue;slightly purplish or bluish dark gray
intensity;chromatic purity: freedom from dilution with white and hence vividness of hue
low frequency;a pitch that is perceived as below other pitches
dimensionality;the spatial property of having dimensions. 'all matter has dimensionality'
vinegariness;a sourness resembling that of vinegar
bumptiousness;offensive assertiveness
mithraism;ancient persian religion. popular among romans during first three centuries a.d.
expectedness;ordinariness as a consequence of being expected and not surprising
folly;the trait of acting stupidly or rashly
friendlessness;being without friends
autochthony;nativeness by virtue or originating or occurring naturally (as in a particular place)
comparison;qualities that are comparable. 'no comparison between the two books'. 'beyond compare'
ambiversion;a balanced disposition intermediate between extroversion and introversion
frailty;moral weakness
audaciousness;fearless daring
do;doctor's degree in osteopathy
cubicity;the property of resembling a cube
rakishness;the quality of a rake
incisiveness;keenness and forcefulness of thought or expression or intellect
lewdness;the trait of behaving in an obscene manner
productiveness;the quality of being productive or having the power to produce
clearness;the quality of clear water. 'when she awoke the clarity was back in her eyes'
unlikeness;dissimilarity evidenced by an absence of likeness
spring;the elasticity of something that can be stretched and returns to its original length
texture;(fine arts) the characteristic appearance of a surface having a tactile quality
delicacy;smallness of stature
callousness;devoid of passion or feeling
currency;the property of belonging to the present time: 'the currency of a slang term'
calibre;diameter of a tube or gun barrel
dimension;a measure of the size of something in a particular direction esp length or width or height
edge;the attribute of urgency. 'his voice had an edge to it'
purpose;what something is used for. 'the function of an auger is to bore holes'. 'ballet is beautiful but what use is it?'
aggression;a disposition to behave aggressively
licitness;the quality of strictly conforming to law
vividness;chromatic purity: freedom from dilution with white and hence vividness of hue
friskiness;lively high-spirited playfulness
untimeliness;being at an inappropriate time
restlessness;inability to rest or relax or be still
eclat;brilliant or conspicuous success or effect: 'the eclat of a great achievement'
sourness;a sullen moody resentful disposition
self possession;great coolness and composure under strain. 'keep your cool'
personal equation;variability attributable to individual differences
singularity;the quality of being one of a kind. 'that singularity distinguished him from all his companions'
self assertiveness;aggressive self-assurance. given to making bold assertions
chroma;chromatic purity: freedom from dilution with white and hence vividness of hue
inertness;immobility by virtue of being inert
dissonance;disagreeable sounds
straightforwardness;the quality of being direct and straightforward. 'what some people take for rudeness is really straightforwardness'
infrequency;noteworthy scarcity
reduced instruction set computer;(computer science) a kind of computer architecture that has a relatively small set of computer instructions that it can perform
full phase of the moon;the time when the moon is fully illuminated
insubstantiality;lack of solid substance and strength
flexibility;the quality of being adaptable or variable. 'he enjoyed the flexibility of his working arrangement'
mass deficiency;the amount by which the mass of an atomic nucleus is less than the sum of the masses of its constituent particles
bitter;the property of having a harsh unpleasant taste
gawkiness;the carriage of someone whose movements and posture are extremely ungainly and inelegant
relentlessness;mercilessness characterized by an unwillingness to relent or let up. 'the relentlessness or their pursuit'
briefness;the temporal property of being very short
plus;a useful or valuable quality
eeriness;strangeness by virtue of being mysterious and inspiring fear
heather mixture;interwoven yarns of mixed colors producing muted grayish shades with flecks of color
indentation;the space left between the margin and the start of an indented line
attentiveness;the trait of being observant and paying attention
outrageousness;excessive excess
multiplicity;the property of being multiple
congeniality;a congenial disposition
stiffness;the inelegance of someone stiff and unrelaxed (as by embarrassment)
frostiness;coldness as evidenced by frost
sonority;having the character of a loud deep sound
assiduousness;great diligence
blood;temperament or disposition. 'a person of hot blood'
vacuity;total lack of meaning or ideas
hardship;something hard to endure. 'the asperity of northern winters'
sugariness;the sweetness of sugar
effrontery;impudent aggressiveness. 'i couldn't believe her boldness'. 'he had the effrontery to question my honesty'
bearing;dignified manner or conduct
burl;soft lump or unevenness in a yarn. either an imperfection or created by design
extension;amount or degree or range to which something extends: 'the wire has an extension of 50 feet'
consistency;(logic) an attribute of a logical system that is so constituted that none of the propositions deducible from the axioms contradict one another
wealth;the quality of profuse abundance. 'she has a wealth of talent'
lethargy;lack of vitality or energy
crabbedness;a disposition to be ill tempered
senselessness;total lack of meaning or ideas
oleaginousness;smug self-serving earnestness
smell;any property detected by the olfactory system
grimness;the quality of being ghastly
femaleness;the properties characteristic of the female sex
aspect;a characteristic to be considered
foresight;providence by virtue of planning prudently for the future
unfavourableness;the quality of not being encouraging or indicative of success
weight;the vertical force exerted by a mass as a result of gravity
dd;a doctor's degree in religion
conformity;hardened conventionality
tenableness;the quality of being plausible or acceptable to a reasonable person. 'he questioned the tenability of my claims'
inability;lacking the power to perform
radius;the length of a line segment between the center and circumference of a circle or sphere
grit;(informal) fortitude. 'he didn't have the guts to try it'
incompatibility;the quality of being unable to exist or work in congenial combination
unfeelingness;devoid of passion or feeling
cylindricalness;the roundness of a 3-dimensional cylinder
boil;the temperature at which a liquid boils at sea level: 'the brought to water to a boil'
contour;any spatial attribute (especially as defined by outline). 'he could barely make out their shapes through the smoke'
sound property;an attribute of sound
handsomeness;the quality of having regular well-defined features (especially of a man)
scantness;the quality of being meager. 'an exiguity of cloth that would only allow of miniature capes'-george eliot
lassitude;lack of vitality or energy
magnanimity;extremely liberal generosity of spirit
adaptability;the ability to change or be changed to fit changed circumstances
unpredictability;the quality of being guided by sudden unpredictable impulses
likeliness;the probability of a specified outcome
finitude;the quality of being finite
full of the moon;the time when the moon is fully illuminated
stress;a physical force producing deformation or strain
unthoughtfulness;the trait of not thinking carefully before acting
matte;the property of having little or no contrast
indifference;the trait of lacking enthusiasm for or interest in things generally
immobility;the quality of not moving
passiveness;submission to others or to outside influences
absorption factor;(physics) the property of a body that determines the fraction of the incident radiation or sound flux absorbed or absorbable by the body
restiveness;characterized by nervousness and quickness to take fright
corruption;moral perversion. impairment of virtue and moral principles: 'the luxury and corruption among the upper classes'. 'moral degeneracy followed intellectual degeneration'. 'its brothels. its opium parlors. its depravity'
ph scale;p(otential of) h(ydrogen). the logarithm of the reciprocal of hydrogen-ion concentration in gram atoms per liter. used as a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution on a scale of 0-14 (where 7 is neutral)
nutritiveness;the quality of being nourishing and promoting healthy growth
radio brightness;the strength of a radio wave picked up by a radio telescope
domesticity;the quality of being domestic or domesticated: 'a royal family living in unpretentious domesticity'
incapability;the quality of not being capable -- physically or intellectually or legally
inaptness;in appropriateness. 'greater inaptness of expression would be hard to imagine'
acidity;ph values below 7
decrement;the amount by which something decreases
aura;a distinctive but intangible quality surrounding a person or thing: 'an atmosphere of defeat pervaded the candidate's headquarters'. 'the place had an aura of romance'
limpness;a flabby softness
hair coloring;coloring of the hair: 'her hair-coloring was unusual: a very pale gold'
mutual resemblance;symmetrical resemblance
hastiness;overly eager speed (and possible carelessness). 'he soon regretted his haste'
unfriendliness;an unfriendly disposition
yoga;a hindu theistic philosophy. union of self and the supreme being is sought through a state of complete awareness and tranquillity attained by certain physical exercises
tepidity;a warmness resembling the temperature of the skin
heterogeneity;the quality of being diverse and not comparable in kind
price;value measured by what must be given or done or undergone to obtain something: 'the cost in human life was enormous'. 'the price of success is hard work'. 'what price glory?'
error;departure from what is ethically acceptable
sable;a very dark black
parsimoniousness;extreme care in spending money. reluctance to spend money unnecessarily
politesse;courtesy towards women
amiableness;a disposition to be friendly and approachable (easy to talk to)
unassumingness;a quality of naturalness and simplicity. 'the simple sincerity of folk songs'
breadth;the extent of something from side to side
vigour;an exertion of force. 'he plays tennis with great energy'
featheriness;a light softness
go ahead;readiness to embark on bold new ventures
prosaicness;commonplaceness as a consequence of being humdrum and not exciting
shortness;the property of being shorter than average stature
ungodliness;impiety by virtue of not being a godly person
hostility;a hostile (very unfriendly) disposition. 'he could not conceal his hostility'
heedlessness;the trait of forgetting or ignoring your responsibilities
inauspiciousness;the quality of suggesting an unsuccessful result
homeliness;lacking stylishness or neatness
immediacy;the quickness of action or occurrence. 'the immediacy of their response'. 'the instancy of modern communication'
bloodstain;a discoloration caused by blood
crescendo;(music) a gradual increase in loudness
pointedness;the property of a shape that tapers to a sharp point
compulsiveness;the trait of acting compulsively
worst;the greatest damage or wickedness of which one is capable: 'the invaders did their worst'. 'so pure of heart that his worst is another man's best'
illogicalness;invalid or incorrect reasoning
moment;having important effects or influence. 'decisions of great consequence are made by the president himself'. 'virtue is of more moment that security'
shucks;something of little value. 'it is not worth a damn'. 'not worth shucks'
leniency;mercifulness as a consequence of being lenient or tolerant
zen;doctrine that enlightenment can be attained through direct intuitive insight
good;benefit. 'for your own good'. 'what's the good of worrying?'
traditionalism;strict adherence to traditional methods or teachings
inappropriateness;the quality of not being particularly suitable
valuelessness;having none of the properties that endow something with value
undependability;the trait of not being dependable or reliable
privacy;the quality of being secluded from the presence or view of others
viscousness;resistance of a liquid to sheer forces (and hence to flow)
pungency;a sharp bitter taste property
nap;a soft or fuzzy surface texture
scarlet;a variable color that is vivid red but sometimes with an orange tinge
youthfulness;the freshness and vitality characteristic of a young person
favourableness;the quality of being encouraging or promising of a successful outcome
viability;(of living things) capable of normal growth and development
mischievousness;an attribute of mischievous children
recency;the property of having happened or appeared not long ago
ephemeralness;the property of lasting for a very short time
fawn;a color varying around light grayish brown. 'she wore a dun raincoat'
assumption;audacious (even arrogant) behavior that you have no right to. 'he despised them for their presumptuousness'
scratch;an indication of damage
exorbitance;excessive excess
levity;lightness of manner
invariability;the quality of being resistant to variation
vagueness;unclearness by virtue of being vague
everydayness;ordinariness as a consequence of being frequent and commonplace
resemblance;similarity in appearance or external or superficial details
formidability;impressive difficulty
boundary;the greatest possible degree of something: 'what he did was beyond the bounds of acceptable behavior'. 'to the limit of his ability'
tenaciousness;persistent determination
deviousness;the quality of being oblique and rambling indirectly
sake;a reason for wanting something done. 'for your sake'. 'died for the sake of his country'. 'in the interest of safety'. 'in the common interest'
conspicuousness;high visibility
an;an associate degree in nursing
probity;complete and confirmed integrity
lankiness;a tall and thin physique
fulsomeness;smug self-serving earnestness
impiety;unrighteousness by virtue of lacking respect for a god
priggishness;exaggerated and arrogant properness
spread;a conspicuous disparity or difference as between two figures: 'gap between income and outgo'. 'the spread between lending and borrowing costs'
allure;the power to entice or attract through personal charm
disinclination;a certain degree of unwillingness. 'a reluctance to commit himself'. 'after some hesitation he agreed'
realism;the attribute of accepting the facts of life and favoring practicality and literal truth
genetic endowment;the total of inherited attributes
concentration;great diligence
changeableness;the quality of being changeable. having a marked tendency to change. 'the changeableness of the weather'
sex appeal;attractiveness to the opposite sex
beat;a regular rate of repetition. 'the cox raised the beat'
voluptuousness;the quality of having a well-rounded body
intensity;the magnitude of sound (usually in a specified direction). 'the kids played their music at full volume'
compliancy;a disposition or tendency to yield to the will of others
satisfactoriness;the quality of giving satisfaction sufficient to meet a demand or requirement
ingenuity;the property of being ingenious. 'a plot of great ingenuity'. 'the cleverness of its design'
believability;the quality of being believable or trustworthy
odds;the probability of a specified outcome
meditativeness;deep serious thoughtfulness
genital wart;a small benign wart on or around the genitals and anus
vigour;active strength of body or mind
unalterability;the quality of not being alterable
academic degree;an award conferred by a college or university signifying that the recipient has satisfactorily completed a course of study. 'he earned his degree at princeton summa cum laude'
lividness;unnatural lack of color in the skin (as from bruising or sickness or emotional distress)
ponderosity;the property of being large in mass
charm;attractiveness that interests or pleases or stimulates
particularity;the quality of being particular and pertaining to a specific case or instance. 'the particularity of human situations'
rise;an increase in cost. 'they asked for a 10% rise in rates'
undertone;a pale or subdued color
view;outward appearance. 'they look the same in outward view'
concavity;the property possessed by a concave shape
transience;the attribute of being brief or fleeting
fight;an aggressive willingness to compete. 'the team was full of fight'
prolongation;the consequence of being lengthened in duration
self command;control of one's behavior
brawn;muscular strength
origin;properties attributable to your ancestry. 'he comes from good origins'
dominance;the power to exercise authoritative or dominating control or influence over. 'he has the authority to issue warrants'
profundity;intellectual depth. penetrating knowledge. keen insight. etc: 'the depth of my feeling'. 'the profoundness of the silence'
uncertainness;being unsettled or in doubt: 'the uncertainty of the outcome'
extravagance;the trait of spending extravagantly
invalidness;illogicality as a consequence of having a conclusion that does not follow from the premisses
reddish purple;a shade of purple tinged with red
passion;intense passion or emotion
salubrity;the quality of being salubrious and invigorating
barbarity;the quality of being shockingly cruel and inhumane
presence;dignified manner or conduct
low temperature;the absence of heat. 'the coldness made our breath visible'. 'come in out of the cold'
stubbornness;resolute adherence to your own ideas or desires
fierceness;the property of being wild or turbulent. 'the storm's violence'
reddish orange;an orange color closer to red than to yellow
changeability;the quality of being changeable. having a marked tendency to change. 'the changeableness of the weather'
corruptibility;the capability of being corrupted
contemporaneousness;the quality of being current or of the present: 'a shopping mall would instill a spirit of modernity into this village'
quotability;the quality of being worthy of being quoted
countlessness;a number beyond counting
aptness;a disposition to behave in a certain way. 'the aptness of iron to rust'. 'the propensity of disease to spread'
analogue;something having the property of being analogous to something else
doctor of laws;an honorary law degree
humour;the trait of appreciating (and being able to express) the humorous. 'she didn't appreciate my humor.' 'you can't survive in the army without a sense of humor'
indent;the space left between the margin and the start of an indented line
ostentation;pretentious or showy or vulgar display
usableness;the quality of being able to provide good service
relativistic mass;(physics) the mass of a body in motion relative to the observer: it is equal to the rest mass multiplied by a factor that is greater than 1 and that increases as the magnitude of the velocity increases
trust;the trait of trusting. of believing in the honesty and reliability of others. 'the experience destroyed his trust and personal dignity'
brininess;the relative proportion of salt in a solution
vehemence;intensity or forcefulness of expression: 'the vehemence of his denial' or 'his emphasis on civil rights'
rarity;a rarified quality: 'the tenuity of the upper atmosphere'
lordship;the authority of a lord
concert pitch;the pitch used to tune instruments for concert performances. usually assigns 440 hz to the a above middle c
fugaciousness;the lack of enduring qualities (used chiefly of plant parts)
edibility;the property of being fit to eat
transmutability;the quality of being commutable
master in business;a master's degree in business
discord;a harsh mixture of sounds
noisiness;characterized by loud and constant noise
blandness;smooth and gracious in manner
modesty;freedom from vanity or conceit
nonuniformity;the quality of being diverse and interesting
cost;the property of having material worth (often indicated by the amount of money something would bring if sold): 'the fluctuating monetary value of gold and silver'. 'he puts a high price on his services'. 'he couldn't calculate the cost of the collection'
execution speed;(computer science) the speed with which a computational device can execute instructions. measured in mips
salaciousness;the trait of behaving in an obscene manner
coherence;logical and orderly and consistent relation of parts
sameness;the quality of being alike: 'sameness of purpose kept them together'
fullness;the property of a sound that has a rich and pleasing timbre
fragrance;a pleasingly sweet olfactory property
persuasiveness;the power to induce the taking of a course of action or the embracing of a point of view by means of argument or entreaty. 'the strength of his argument settled the matter'
mortality;the quality or state of being mortal
bending;the property of being bent or deflected
bounty;generosity evidenced by a willingness to give freely
coolness;fearless self-possession in the face of danger
pervasiveness;the quality of filling or spreading throughout: 'the pervasiveness of the odor of cabbage in tenement hallways'
amicableness;having a disposition characterized by warmth and friendliness
unemotionality;absence of emotion
valourousness;the qualities of a hero or heroine. exceptional or heroic courage when facing danger (especially in battle). 'he showed great heroism in battle'. 'he received a medal for valor'
youth;the freshness and vitality characteristic of a young person
capriciousness;the quality of being guided by sudden unpredictable impulses
appropriateness;appropriate conduct. doing the right thing
loneliness;a disposition toward being alone
rapaciousness;extreme gluttony
narrowness;the property of being narrow
hunger;strong desire for something (not food or drink): 'a thirst for knowledge'. 'hunger for affection'
teal;a shade of green tinged with blue
inhumanity;the quality of lacking compassion or consideration for others
sentimentality;falsely emotional in a maudlin way
price;the high value or worth of something. 'her price is far above rubies'
intemperance;the quality of being intemperate
thoroughness;conscientiousness in performing all aspects of a task
suitability;the quality of having the properties that are right for a specific purpose. 'an important requirement is suitability for long trips'
flamboyance;extravagant elaborateness
unproductiveness;the quality of lacking the power to produce
odour;any property detected by the olfactory system
rolypoliness;the property of having a plump and round body
long suit;an asset of special worth or utility. 'cooking is his forte'
trickiness;the quality of being a slippery rascal
subjectiveness;judgment based on individual personal impressions and feelings and opinions rather than external facts
tone;the quality of something (an act or a piece of writing) that reveals the attitudes and presuppositions of the author. 'the general tone of articles appearing in the newspapers is that the government should withdraw'. 'from the tone of her behavior i gathered that i had outstayed my welcome'
irreligion;the quality of not being devout
squeezability;the property of being able to occupy less space
dark blue;a dark shade of blue
idleness;the trait of being idle out of a reluctance to work
smudge;a blemish made by dirt. 'he had a smudge on his cheek'
gluiness;the property of being cohesive and sticky
cheapness;a price below the standard price
immodesty;the trait of being vain and conceited
mortmain;the oppressive influence of past events of decisions
jade green;a light green color varying from bluish green to yellowish green
visage;the appearance conveyed by a person's face. 'a pleasant countenance'. 'a stern visage'
contemporaneity;the quality of belonging to the same period of time
curie temperature;the temperature above which a ferromagnetic substance loses its ferromagnetism
life style;a manner of living that reflects the person's values and attitudes
extroversion;an extroverted disposition. concern with what is outside the self
foolishness;the trait of acting stupidly or rashly
lotus position;a sitting position with the legs crossed. used in yoga
redolence;a pleasingly sweet olfactory property
mendacity;the tendency to be untruthful
foaminess;the property of being foamy
smallness;the property of having a relatively small size
intermittence;the quality of being intermittent. subject to interruption or periodic stopping
sustainability;the property of being sustainable
untrustiness;the trait of not deserving trust or confidence
hold;power by which something or someone is affected or dominated: 'he has a hold over them'
moderation;the trait of avoiding excesses
likelihood;the probability of a specified outcome
salubriousness;the quality of being salubrious and invigorating
sufficiency;a quantity or number sufficient for a purpose
doctorate;one of the highest academic degrees conferred by a university
impermeableness;the property of something that cannot be pervaded by a liquid
incessancy;the quality of something that continues without end or interruption
stout;a garment size for a large or heavy person
mennonitism;system of beliefs and practices including belief in scriptural authority. plain dress. adult baptism. foot washing. restriction of marriage to members of the group
beastliness;the quality of being deliberately mean
self importance;an exaggerated opinion of your own importance
moderation;quality of being moderate and avoiding extremes
potency;possession of controlling influence. 'the deterrent power of nuclear weapons'. 'the power of his love saved her'
mass;the property of a body that causes it to have weight in a gravitational field
pose;affected manners intended to impress others. 'don't put on airs with me'
windage;the deflection of a projectile resulting from the effects of wind
meter;rhythm as given by division into parts of equal time
tang;a tart spiciness
commitment;the trait of sincere and steadfast fixity of purpose. 'a man of energy and commitment'
juvenile wart;a small benign growth on the faces of hands of children
appealingness;attractiveness that interests or pleases or stimulates
inexactitude;the quality of being inaccurate and having errors
valency;(biology) a relative capacity to unite or react or interact as with antigens or a biological substrate
wonderfulness;admirable excellence
scd;an honorary degree in science
touch;the feel of mechanical action: 'this piano has a wonderful touch'
height;natural height of a person or animal in an upright position
good neighborliness;a disposition to be friendly and helpful to neighbors
ungainliness;the carriage of someone whose movements and posture are extremely ungainly and inelegant
accountability;responsibility to someone or for some activity
objectiveness;judgment based on observable phenomena and uninfluenced by emotions or personal prejudices
dulness;a lack of visual brightness
cherry;a red the color of ripe cherries
trustiness;the trait of deserving trust and confidence
irresolution;the trait of being irresolute. lacking firmness of purpose
agility;the gracefulness of a person or animal that is quick and nimble
inaudibleness;the quality of not being perceptible b.y the ear
tunefulness;the property of having a melody
bellyful;an undesirable overabundance: 'a bellyful of your complaints'
indefatigableness;tireless determination
insalubrity;the quality of being insalubrious and debilitating
trashiness;the quality of being cheaply imitative of something better
cerulean;a light shade of blue
faithfulness;the quality of being faithful
essentialness;basic importance
burgundy;a dark purplish red to blackish red
bluntness;without sharpness of edge or point
texture;the essential quality of something. 'the texture of neapolitan life'
nastiness;malevolence by virtue of being malicious or spiteful or nasty
incongruity;the quality of disagreeing. being unsuitable and inappropriate
vibrancy;having the character of a loud deep sound
solidness;the consistency of a solid
consistency;the property of holding together and retaining its shape. 'when the dough has enough consistency it is ready to bake'
sweetness;the property of having a pleasantly sweet taste
cupidity;extreme greed for material wealth
destructibility;vulnerability to destruction
redundance;the attribute of being superfluous and unneeded. 'the use of industrial robots created redundancy among workers'
wrongness;the quality of not conforming to fact or truth
preponderance;a superiority in numbers
intransigency;the trait of being intransigent. stubbornly refusing to compromise
receptivity;willingness or readiness to receive esp impressions or ideas: 'their receptivity to the proposal'
bachelor of arts;a bachelor's degree in arts and sciences
nefariousness;the quality of being wicked
orderliness;the quality of appreciating method and system
blurriness;the quality of being indistinct
worthiness;the quality or state of having merit or value
longevity;duration of service: 'her longevity as a star'. 'had unusual longevity in the company'
jainism;founded in the 6th century as a revolt against hinduism. emphasizes asceticism and immortality and transmigration of the soul. denies existence of a perfect or supreme being
thinness;the property of being very narrow or thin. 'he marvelled at the fineness of her hair'
walk;manner of walking. 'he had a funny walk'
doctor of music;a doctor's degree in music
religiosity;exaggerated or affected piety
equanimity;steadiness of mind under stress. 'he accepted their problems with composure and she with equanimity'
peppiness;liveliness and energy. 'this tonic is guaranteed to give you more pep'
approaching;the temporal property of becoming nearer in time. 'the approach of winter'
good looks;the quality of having regular well-defined features (especially of a man)
stiffness;excessive sternness. 'the severity of his punishment was inhuman'
androglossia;a woman's voice with male qualities
flightiness;the trait of acting more from whim or caprice than from reason or judgment
indubitability;the quality of being beyond question or dispute or doubt
oblongness;the property of being shaped like a rectangle
lyricality;the property of being suitable for singing
lemon;a strong yellow color
mistrust;the trait of not trusting others
faith;a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny. 'he lost his faith but not his morality'
narrowing;an instance of becoming narrow
becomingness;the quality of being becoming
strength;capacity to produce strong physiological or chemical effects: 'the toxin's potency'. 'the strength of the drinks'
reticence;the trait of being uncommunicative. not volunteering anything more than necessary
unprofitableness;the quality of affording no gain or no benefit or no profit
communicativeness;the trait of being communicative
scantiness;the quality of being meager. 'an exiguity of cloth that would only allow of miniature capes'-george eliot
pulchritude;physical beauty (especially of a woman)
linear perspective;the appearance of things relative to one another as determined by their distance from the viewer
glutinousness;the property of having a viscosity like jelly
perpetuity;the property of being perpetual (seemingly ceaseless)
good faith;having honest intentions. 'he acted in good faith'. 'doubt was expressed as to the good faith of the immigrants'
tattletale gray;a grayish white
diversity;the condition or result of being variable
boorishness;inelegance by virtue of being an uncouth boor
sentience;the readiness to perceive sensations. elementary or undifferentiated consciousness: 'gave sentience to slugs and newts'- richard eberhart
nevus;a blemish on the skin formed before birth
deliberation;the trait of thoughtfulness in action or decision. 'he was a man of judicial deliberation'
exclusiveness;tendency to associate with only a select group
sufferance;patient endurance esp of pain or destress
unpalatability;the property of being unacceptable to the taste
shininess;the visual property of something that shines with reflected light
continence;the exercise of self constraint in sexual matters
thrift;extreme care in spending money. reluctance to spend money unnecessarily
spice;the property of being seasoned with spice and so highly flavored
materiality;the quality of being physical. consisting of matter
indiscipline;the trait of lacking discipline
common wart;a benign growth (often with a rough surface)
healthfulness;the quality of promoting good health
tapestry;something that is felt to resemble a tapestry in its complexity. 'the tapestry of european history'
insincerity;the quality of not being open or truthful. deceitful or hypocritical
sway;controlling influence
thoughtlessness;the quality of failing to be considerate of others
forbearance;good-natured tolerance of delay or incompetence
availability;the quality of being at hand when needed
mettlesomeness;courageous high-spiritedness
expressiveness;the quality of being expressive
interchangeability;the quality of being capable of exchange or interchange
physiological property;a property having to do with the functioning of the body
hot stuff;the quality of being popular. 'skiing is hot stuff in new hampshire'
straightness;freedom from crooks or curves or bends or angles
demeanour;behavioral attributes
ampleness;the property of being more than sufficient. comfortable sufficiency. 'the ampleness of her servings more than satisfied his hunger'
brusqueness;an abrupt discourteous manner
elaboration;marked by elaborately complex detail
liquidity;the property of flowing easily
cooperativeness;the trait of being cooperative
restriction;the quality of being limited or restricted. 'it is a good plan but it has serious limitations'
rein;any means of control. 'he took up the reins of government'
warmth;intense passion or emotion
nauseatingness;extreme unpalatability
briskness;liveliness and eagerness. 'he accepted with alacrity'
dispassion;objectivity and detachment
edd;a doctor's degree in education
nimbus;an indication of radiant light drawn around the head of a saint
behaviour;behavioral attributes
bargaining chip;leverage in the form of an inducement or a concession useful in successful negotiations
gulf;an unbridgeable disparity (as from a failure of understanding). 'he felt a gulf between himself and his former friends'
visibleness;quality or fact or degree of being visible. perceptible by the eye or obvious to the eye: 'low visibility caused by fog'
simplicity;absence of affectation or pretense
melting point;the temperature below which a liquid turns into a solid
kindness;tendency to be kind and forgiving
unsatisfactoriness;the quality of being adequate or suitable
complement;something added to complete or make perfect: 'a fine wine is a perfect complement to the dinner'
singleness;without hypocrisy: 'the singleness of his motives could not be questioned'
outwardness;concern with or responsiveness to outward things esp material objects as opposed to ideal concepts: 'hearty showmanship and all-round outwardness'
stealthiness;a disposition to be sly and stealthy and to do things surreptitiously
shamelessness;behavior marked by a bold defiance of the proprieties and lack of shame
elan;distinctive and stylish elegance. 'he wooed her with the confident dash of a cavalry officer'
meaninglessness;the quality of having great value or significance. 'he resented the meaninglessness of the tasks they assigned him'
animation;the property of being able to survive and grow. 'the vitality of a seed'
grandness;splendid or imposing in size or appearance. 'the grandness of the architecture'
discernability;distinctness that makes perception easy
lustre;a surface coating for ceramics or porcelain
colouring;a visual attribute of things that results from the light they emit or transmit or reflect. 'white is the coolest summer color'
self restraint;exhibiting restraint imposed on the self. 'an effective temperateness in debate'
solemnity;a trait of dignified seriousness
hinduism;a complex of beliefs and values and customs including worship of many gods especially the trimurti composed of brahma the creator. vishnu the preserver. and shiva the destroyer
unsanctification;unholiness by virtue of being profane
pomp;ceremonial elegance and splendor. 'entered with much eclat in a coach drawn by eight white horses'
sb;a bachelor's degree in science
undesirability;the quality possessed by something that should be avoided
service;a means of serving. 'of no avail'. 'there's no help for it'
provability;capability of being demonstrated or logically proved
hang;the way a garment hangs. 'he adjusted the hang of his coat'
profitableness;the quality of affording gain or benefit or profit
incautiousness;the trait of forgetting or ignoring possible danger
athletic type;muscular and big-boned
master of arts;a master's degree in arts and sciences
perturbation;a disposition that is confused or nervous and upset
obstinance;the trait of being difficult to handle or overcome
elaborateness;marked by elaborately complex detail
unmindfulness;the trait of forgetting or ignoring your responsibilities
operating capability;the capability of a technological system to perform as intended
irresponsibleness;the trait of lacking a sense of responsibility
traitorousness;disloyalty by virtue of subversive behavior
modernism;the quality of being current or of the present: 'a shopping mall would instill a spirit of modernity into this village'
fineness;having a very fine texture. 'the fineness of the sand on the beach'
springiness;the elasticity of something that can be stretched and returns to its original length
luminescence;light from nonthermal sources
manoeuverability;the quality of being maneuverable
scope;an area in which something acts or operates or has power or control: 'the range of a supersonic jet'. 'the ambit of municipal legislation'. 'within the compass of this article'. within the scope of an investigation'. 'outside the reach of the law'. 'in the political orbit of a world power'
delicacy;lack of physical strength
adventurousness;the trait of being adventurous
glow;an appearance of reflected light
hairiness;the quality of having hair
flea bite;a very minor inconvenience
quiet;a disposition free from stress or emotion
sinew;muscular strength
equity;conformity with rules or standards. 'the judge recognized the fairness of my claim'
reality;the quality possessed by something that is real
airiness;the property of something weightless and insubstantial
competency;the quality of being adequately or well qualified physically and intellectually
cowardliness;the trait of lacking courage
toughness;the property of being big and strong
white;the quality or state of the achromatic color of greatest lightness (bearing the least resemblance to black)
effectuality;the power to be effective
visibility;capability of providing a clear unobstructed view: 'a windshield with good visibility'
bounce;the quality of a substance that is able to rebound
baseness;unworthiness by virtue of lacking higher values
taper;the property possessed by a shape that narrows toward a point (as a wedge or cone)
mohammedanism;the monotheistic religion of muslims based on the koran
neutrality;ph value of 7
pettishness;a disposition to exhibit uncontrolled anger. 'his temper was well known to all his employees'
trustworthiness;the trait of deserving trust and confidence
orthodoxy;the quality of being orthodox (especially in religion)
color property;an attribute of color
comedo;a black-tipped plug clogging a pore of the skin
fixedness;the quality of being fixed in place
discrepancy;a difference between conflicting facts or claims or opinions. 'a growing divergence of opinion'
maize;a strong yellow color
approachability;the attribute of being easy to meet or deal with
reasonableness;the quality of being plausible or acceptable to a reasonable person. 'he questioned the tenability of my claims'
semitransparency;the quality of allowing light to pass diffusely
full blood;descent from parents both of one pure breed
grimness;something hard to endure. 'the asperity of northern winters'
indigestibleness;the property of being difficult to digest
brown;an orange of low brightness and saturation
specialness;a distinguishing trait
grandeur;the quality of being magnificent or splendid or grand
dulness;without sharpness of edge or point
dazzle;brightness enough to blind partially and temporarily
body weight;the weight of a person's body
infinitude;the quality of being infinite. without bound or limit
drawback;the quality of being a hindrance. 'he pointed out all the drawbacks to my plan'
garishness;tasteless showiness
parsimony;extreme stinginess
bore;diameter of a tube or gun barrel
volume;the magnitude of sound (usually in a specified direction). 'the kids played their music at full volume'
effect;an outward appearance. 'he made a good impression'. 'i wanted to create an impression of success'. 'she retained that bold effect in her reproductions of the original painting'
meretriciousness;an appearance of truth that is false or deceptive. seeming plausibility: 'the speciousness of his argument'
rigor;something hard to endure. 'the asperity of northern winters'
watchfulness;vigilant attentiveness. 'he keeps a weather eye open for trouble'
distinctiveness;a distinguishing trait
humor;the quality of being funny. 'i fail to see the humor in it'
loudness;tasteless showiness
equivalent weight;the atomic weight of an element that has the same combining capacity as a given weight of another element. the standard is 8 for oxygen
defect;a failing or deficiency. 'that interpretation is an unfortunate defect of our lack of information'
disguise;an outward semblance that misrepresents the true nature of something. 'the theatrical notion of disguise is always associated with catastrophe in his stories'
easygoingness;being without worry or concern
senescence;the property characteristic of old age
sponginess;the property of being able to occupy less space
treachery;betrayal of a trust
ceremoniousness;a ceremonial manner
valency;(chemistry) a property of atoms or radicals. their combining power given in terms of the number of hydrogen atoms (or the equivalent)
variety;a difference that is usually pleasant. 'he goes to france for variety'. 'it is a refreshing change to meet a woman mechanic'
naughtiness;an attribute of mischievous children
damn;something of little value. 'it is not worth a damn'. 'not worth shucks'
discursiveness;the quality of being discursive
uxoriousness;foolish fondness for or excessive submissiveness to one's wife
overmuch;a quantity that is more than what is appropriate. 'four-year-olds have an overabundance of energy'
doctor of science;an honorary degree in science
cruelty;the quality of being cruel and causing tension or annoyance
glory;an indication of radiant light drawn around the head of a saint
savorlessness;the property of having no flavor
malignance;quality of being disposed to evil. intense ill will
vintage;the oldness of wines
perceptibility;the property of being perceptible
basophilia;the tendency of cells to stain with basic dyes. 'cytoplasmic basophilia'
bachelor of naval science;a bachelor's degree in naval science
chest register;the lower ranges of the voice in speaking or singing
advantageousness;the quality of being encouraging or promising of a successful outcome
coronary insufficiency;inadequate blood flow to the heart muscles. can cause angina pectoris
sequence;a following of one thing after another in time. 'the doctor saw a sequence of patients'
incapacity;lack of physical or natural qualifications
obligingness;a disposition or tendency to yield to the will of others
variational;characterized by variation
formality;a manner that strictly observes all forms and ceremonies
truculency;obstreperous and defiant aggressiveness
divinity;the quality of being divine. 'ancient egyptians believed in the divinity of the pharaohs'
reclusiveness;preference for seclusion or isolation
sharpness;thinness of edge or fineness of point
virulence;extreme harmfulness. 'the virulence of the plague'
oneness;the quality of being united into one
enterprisingness;readiness to embark on bold new ventures
roundness;the property possessed by a line or surface that is curved and not angular
high frequency;a pitch that is perceived as above other pitches
master of theology;a master's degree in theology
pompousness;lack of elegance as a consequence of pomposity
length;the property of being the extent of something from beginning to end. 'the editor limited the length of my article to 500 words'
equivalence;qualities that are comparable. 'no comparison between the two books'. 'beyond compare'
self determination;determination of one's own fate or course of action without compulsion
seriousness;the trait of being serious. 'a lack of solemnity is not necessarily a lack of seriousness'- robert rice
gradualness;the quality of being gradual or of coming about by gradual stages
tone;the distinctive property of a complex sound (a voice or noise or musical sound). 'the timbre of her soprano was rich and lovely'. 'the muffled tones of the broken bell summoned them to meet'
bite;a sharp bitter taste property
willfulness;the trait of being prone to disobedience and lack of discipline
stretch;the capacity for being stretched
stinginess;a lack of generosity. a general unwillingness to part with money
rigidness;the physical property of being stiff and resisting bending
llb;a three-year law degree
grotesqueness;ludicrous or incongruous unnaturalness or distortion
correspondence;similarity by virtue of correspondence
villainy;the quality of evil by virtue of villainous behavior
tastelessness;inelegance indicated by a lack of good taste
hoot;something of little value. 'it is not worth a damn'. 'not worth shucks'
pretence;a false or unsupportable quality
resource;a source of aid or support that may be drawn upon when needed: 'the local library is a valuable resource'
clarity;free from obscurity and easy to understand. the comprehensibility of clear expression
joint probability;the probability of two events occurring together
room temperature;the normal temperature of room in which people live
transparentness;the quality of being clear and transparent
prevalence;a superiority in numbers
gamut;a complete extent or range: 'a face that expressed a gamut of emotions
perfidiousness;betrayal of a trust
surplusage;a quantity much larger than is needed
meddlesomeness;aggressiveness as evidenced by intruding--by advancing oneself or one's ideas without invitation
indolence;inactivity resulting from a dislike of work
flavorsomeness;having an appetizing flavor
massiveness;an unwieldy largeness
cliquishness;tendency to associate with only a select group
industry;persevering determination to perform a task. 'his diligence won him quick promotions'. 'frugality and industry are still regarded as virtues'
bond;the property of sticking together (as of glue and wood)
faithlessness;unfaithfulness by virtue of being unreliable or treacherous
inductance;(physics) a property of an electric circuit by which an electromotive force is induced in it by a variation of current
inconvenience;the quality of not being useful or convenient
tweediness;looseness or roughness in texture (as of cloth)
continency;the exercise of self constraint in sexual matters
quarrelsomeness;a disposition to fight
religion;a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny. 'he lost his faith but not his morality'
tameness;the quality of being vapid and unsophisticated
athleticism;intense energy. 'his music is characterized by a happy athleticism'
leer;a suggestive or sneering look or grin
fastness;a rate (usually rapid) at which something happens. 'the project advanced with gratifying speed'
idealism;elevated ideals or conduct. the quality of believing that ideals should be pursued
valence;(biology) a relative capacity to unite or react or interact as with antigens or a biological substrate
melanoderma;abnormally dark skin caused by increased deposits of melatonin
amber;a deep yellow color. 'an amber light illuminated the room'. 'he admired the gold of her hair'
badness;used of the degree of something undesirable e.g. pain or weather
dastardliness;treacherous cowardice
runtiness;smallness of stature
fatherliness;the benignity and protectiveness of or befitting a father: 'the gentleness and fatherliness of the strange old man eased her fears'
gumption;(informal) fortitude. 'he didn't have the guts to try it'
silver gray;a light shade of gray
tepidness;lack of passion, force or animation
meanness;extreme stinginess
puniness;smallness of stature
litheness;the gracefulness of a person or animal that is flexible and supple
immensity;unusual largeness in size or extent
oxford gray;a very dark gray color
long suffering;patient endurance of pain or unhappiness
disposition;your usual mood. 'he has a happy disposition'
valuableness;the positive quality of being precious and beyond value
correctness;conformity to fact or truth
grundyism;excessive or affected modesty
oiliness;smug self-serving earnestness
fallaciousness;result of a fallacy or error in reasoning
agreement;compatibility of observations. 'there was no agreement between theory and measurment'. 'the results of two tests were in correspondence'
fallibility;the likelihood of making errors
homogeneousness;the quality of being similar or comparable in kind or nature. 'there is a remarkable homogeneity between the two companies'
intermittency;the quality of being intermittent. subject to interruption or periodic stopping
transiency;an impermanence that suggests the inevitability of ending or dying
instability;unreliability attributable to being unstable
asset;a useful or valuable quality
staleness;having lost purity and freshness as a consequence of aging
womanlike;the trait of being womanly. having the characteristics of an adult female
fitness;the condition of being suitable. 'they had to prove their fitness for the position'
fat;excess bodily weight. 'she found fatness disgusting in herself as well as in others'
religious mysticism;a religion based on mystical communion with an ultimate reality
uttermost;the greatestest possible degree. 'he tried his utmost'
exoticism;the quality of being exotic. 'he loved the exocitism of egypt'
plethora;extreme excess. 'an embarrassment of riches'
atomic mass;(chemistry) the mass (in atomic mass units) of an isotope of an element
schmalz;(informal) excessive sentimentality
luxury;the quality possessed by something that is excessively expensive
singleness;the quality of concentrating on one central objective: 'his singleness of purpose'
seclusion;the quality of being secluded from the presence or view of others
malodourousness;the attribute of having a strong offensive smell
gaminess;behavior or language bordering on indelicacy
honor;the quality of being honorable and having a good name. 'a man of honor'
incurableness;incapability of being cured or healed
stridence;having the timbre of a loud high-pitched sound
currentness;the property of belonging to the present time: 'the currency of a slang term'
sauciness;inappropriate playfulness
feel;a property perceived by touch
cowardice;the trait of lacking courage
impetuousness;rash impulsiveness
trademark;a distinctive characteristic or attribute
humaneness;the quality of compassion or consideration for others (people or animals)
baptistic doctrine;any of various doctrines closely related to anabaptism
shortness;the property of being truncated or short
inclination;a characteristic likelihood of or natural disposition toward a certain condition or character or effect: 'the alkaline inclination of the local waters'. 'fabric with a tendency to shrink'
imperceptibility;the property of being imperceptible
inactiveness;a disposition to remain inactive or inert. 'he had to overcome his inertia and get back to work'
bitchiness;malevolence by virtue of being malicious or spiteful or nasty
valiance;the qualities of a hero or heroine. exceptional or heroic courage when facing danger (especially in battle). 'he showed great heroism in battle'. 'he received a medal for valor'
breed;a lineage or race of people
cockiness;offensive assertiveness
transparence;the quality of being clear and transparent
individualism;the quality of being individual: 'so absorbed by the movement that she lost all sense of individuality'
avoirdupois;excess bodily weight. 'she found fatness disgusting in herself as well as in others'
crassitude;the quality of being crass--devoid of refinement
dispensableness;the quality possessed by something that you can get along without
charcoal gray;a very dark gray color
copiousness;the property of a more than adequate quantity or supply. 'an age of abundance'
authority;a power delegated from one person to another. 'deputies are given the power to make arrests'
powderiness;having a very fine texture. 'the fineness of the sand on the beach'
demonstrability;capability of being demonstrated or logically proved
simulacrum;an insubstantial or vague semblance
jingoism;fanatical patriotism
theatricality;an artificial and mannered quality
weak point;an attribute that is inadequate or deficient
unchangeability;the quality of being unchangeable. having a marked tendency to remain unchanged
fecundity;the quality of something that causes or assists healthy growth
shakiness;the quality of being unstable and insecure. 'the shakiness of the present regime'
unexpectedness;extraordinariness by virtue of being unexpected. 'the unexpectedness of the warm welcome'
fortissimo;(music) with great loudness
comprehensibility;the quality of comprehensible language or thought
pretension;a false or unsupportable quality
lead;an advantage held by a competitor in a race: 'he took the lead at the last turn'
tastiness;pleasant palatability
exposure;vulnerability to the elements. to the action of heat or cold or wind or rain. 'exposure to the weather' or 'they died from exposure'
disposition;a natural or acquired habit or characteristic tendency in a person or thing: 'a swelling with a disposition to rupture'
sour;the sharp taste of something acidic (as vinegar or lemon juice)
dereliction;a tendency to be negligent and uncaring. 'he inherited his delinquency from his father'. 'his derelictions were not really intended as crimes'. 'his adolescent protest consisted of willful neglect of all his responsibilities'
measurability;the quality of being measurable
molecular weight;(chemistry) the sum of the relative atomic masses of the constituent atoms of a molecule
saturation;chromatic purity: freedom from dilution with white and hence vividness of hue
pallor;unnatural lack of color in the skin (as from bruising or sickness or emotional distress)
sinfulness;estrangement from god
effectivity;the power to be effective
quality;the distinctive property of a complex sound (a voice or noise or musical sound). 'the timbre of her soprano was rich and lovely'. 'the muffled tones of the broken bell summoned them to meet'
manliness;the trait of being manly. having the characteristics of an adult male
vitalness;the quality of being essential to maintain life
harmoniousness;the property of sounding harmonious
restlessness;the quality of being ceaselessly moving or active. 'the restlessness of the wind'
octavo;the size of a book whose pages are made by folding a sheet of paper three times to form eight leaves
first class;the highest rank in a classification
shortcoming;a failing or deficiency. 'that interpretation is an unfortunate defect of our lack of information'
ancientness;extreme oldness
efficacy;capacity or power to produce a desired effect
consistence;a harmonious uniformity or agreement among things or parts
mass;the property of something that is great in magnitude. 'it is cheaper to buy it in bulk'. 'he received a mass of correspondence'. 'the volume of exports'
redundancy;the attribute of being superfluous and unneeded. 'the use of industrial robots created redundancy among workers'
wildness;the property of being wild or turbulent. 'the storm's violence'
ease;freedom from difficulty or hardship or effort: 'he rose through the ranks with apparent ease'. 'they put it into containers for ease of transportation'
implausibility;the quality of provoking disbelief
supernatural virtue;according to christian ethics: one of the three virtues (faith and hope and charity) created by god to round out the natural virtues
furtiveness;a disposition to be sly and stealthy and to do things surreptitiously
evil;the quality of being morally wrong in principle or practice: 'attempts to explain the origin of evil in the world'
silence;a refusal to speak when expected. 'his silence about my contribution was surprising'
aspect;the expression on a person's face. 'a sad expression'. 'a look of triumph'. 'an angry face'
concurrence;the temporal property of two things happening at the same time. 'the interval determining the coincidence gate is adjustable'
tincture;a quality of a given color that differs slightly from a primary color. 'after several trials he mixed the shade of pink that she wanted'
emptiness;the quality of being valueless or futile. 'he rejected the vanities of the world'
ceaselessness;the quality of something that continues without end or interruption
answerableness;responsibility to someone or for some activity
intransigence;the trait of being intransigent. stubbornly refusing to compromise
serviceableness;the quality of being able to provide good service
liberalness;the trait of being generous in behavior and temperament
grotesquery;ludicrous or incongruous unnaturalness or distortion
motherliness;the tenderness and warmth and affection of or befitting a mother: 'the girl's motherliness made her invaluable in caring for the children'
bounteousness;generosity evidenced by a willingness to give freely
littleness;the property of having a relatively small size
parity;functional equality
biliousness;a disposition to exhibit uncontrolled anger. 'his temper was well known to all his employees'
meekness;a disposition to be patient and long suffering
gutlessness;the trait of lacking courage and determination. fearful of loss or injury
tan;a light brown
adiposis;the property of excessive fatness
worthlessness;having no qualities that would render it valuable or useful. 'the drill sergeant's intent was to convince all the recruits of their worthlessness'
sinistrality;preference for using the left hand
unnaturalness;the quality of being unnatural or not based on natural principles
inaudibility;the quality of not being perceptible b.y the ear
invaluableness;the positive quality of being precious and beyond value
missionary position;a position for sexual intercourse. a man and woman lie facing each other with the man on top
puseyism;principles of the founders of the oxford movement. expounded in pamphlets called 'tracts for the times'
first water;the highest quality gems
unpleasingness;the quality of being unpleasant
variability;a quality of variability and lack of uniformity
unorthodoxy;the quality of being unorthodox
aqua;a shade of blue tinged with green
pitch black;a very dark black
pretentiousness;the quality of being pretentious (creating a false appearance of great importance or worth)
long sufferance;patient endurance of pain or unhappiness
distastefulness;extreme unpalatability
slack;the condition of being loose (not taut). 'he hadn't counted on the slackness of the rope'
inexorability;mercilessness characterized by an unwillingness to relent or let up. 'the relentlessness or their pursuit'
mauve;a moderate purple
sensitivity;the ability to respond to physical stimuli or to register small physical amounts or differences: 'a galvanometer of extreme sensitivity'
malignancy;quality of being disposed to evil. intense ill will
muteness;a refusal to speak when expected. 'his silence about my contribution was surprising'
showiness;extravagant elaborateness
value;the quality (positive or negative) that renders something desirable or valuable. 'the shakespearean shylock is of dubious value in the modern world'
panache;distinctive and stylish elegance. 'he wooed her with the confident dash of a cavalry officer'
appositeness;appropriateness. 'the phrase had considerable aptness'
capital stock;the book value of the outstanding shares of a corporation
jaundice;a sharp and bitter manner
shape;the visual appearance of something or someone. 'the delicate cast of his features'
counterfactuality;the quality of being contrary to fact
dullness;without sharpness of edge or point
eclat;ceremonial elegance and splendor. 'entered with much eclat in a coach drawn by eight white horses'
first;(great britain) an honours degree of the highest class
manner;a manner of performance. 'a manner of living'. 'in the characteristic new york style'. 'a way of life'
intelligibility;language that can be understood
tangerine;a reddish to vivid orange color
inadvertence;the trait of forgetting or ignoring your responsibilities
unusualness;uncommonness by virtue of being unusual
luminosity;the quality of being luminous. emitting or reflecting light. 'its luminosity is measured relative to that of our sun'
domineeringness;the trait of being imperious and overbearing
dowdiness;lacking stylishness or neatness
calefaction;the property of being warming
adhesion;the property of sticking together (as of glue and wood)
inanition;lack of vitality or energy
specific gravity;the density of a substance relative to the density of water
demureness;the affectation of being demure in a provocative way
format;the general appearance of a publication
deviousness;the quality of being deceitful and underhanded
mustiness;the quality of smelling or tasting old or stale or mouldy
rareness;noteworthy scarcity
strength;the property of being physically or mentally strong. 'fatigue sapped his strength'
hike;the amount a salary is increased. 'he got a raise'. 'he got a wage hike'
stuffiness;dull and pompous gravity
worthwhileness;value sufficient to repay time or effort spent
affectionateness;a quality proceeding from feelings of affection or love
buoyancy;the property of something weightless and insubstantial
steadiness;the quality of being steady--regular and unvarying
firepower;(military) the relative capacity for delivering fire on a target
bs;a bachelor's degree in science
ambidexterity;the property of being equally skillful with each hand
bleach;the whiteness that results from removing the color from something. 'a complete bleach usually requires several applications'
mutability;the quality of being capable of mutation
gelidity;coldness due to a cold environment
stigma;a skin lesion that is a diagnostic sign of some disease
paucity;an insufficient quantity or number
scorch;a discoloration caused by heat
inertial mass;(physics) the mass of a body as determined by the second law of motion from the acceleration of the body when it is subjected to a force that is not due to gravity
chastity;morality with respect to sexual relations
gold standard;a monetary standard under which the basic unit of currency is defined by a stated quantity of gold
staying power;enduring strength and energy
expedition;the property of being prompt and efficient. 'it was done with dispatch'
leanness;the property of having little body fat
bad;that which is below standard or expectations as of ethics or decency: 'take the bad with the good'
lordliness;formality in bearing and appearance: 'he behaved with great dignity'
attention;a motionless erect stance with arms at the sides and feet together. assumed by military personnel during drill or review. 'the troops stood at attention'
caliber;a degree or grade of excellence or worth: 'the quality of students has risen'. 'an executive of low caliber'
8vo;the size of a book whose pages are made by folding a sheet of paper three times to form eight leaves
shapelessness;the quality of lacking an esthetically pleasing shape
palatability;the property of being acceptable to the taste
girth;the distance around a person's body
unclearness;incomprehensibility as a result of not being clear
commonness;ordinariness as a consequence of being frequent and commonplace
disparity;inequality or difference in some respect
fittingness;the condition of being suitable. 'they had to prove their fitness for the position'
tabu;an inhibition or ban resulting from social custom or emotional aversion
bottleneck;a narrowing that reduces the flow through a channel
obscureness;the quality of being unclear or abstruse and hard to understand
beastliness;(british) unpleasant nastiness. used especially of nasty weather
navigability;suitability for the passage of a ship or aircraft
incorporeality;the quality of not being physical. not consisting of matter
fleshiness;more than average fatness
insidiousness;the quality of being designed to entrap
ds;an honorary degree in science
larcenous;having a disposition to steal
vividness;interest and variety and intensity: 'the puritan period was lacking in color'
dutifulness;piety by virtue of devotion to duty
amenity;pleasantness resulting from agreeable conditions. 'a well trained staff saw to the agreeableness of our accommodations'. 'he discovered the amenities of reading at an early age'
spiritlessness;the trait of lacking enthusiasm for or interest in things generally
indelicacy;the trait of being indelicate and offensive
gallantry;the qualities of a hero or heroine. exceptional or heroic courage when facing danger (especially in battle). 'he showed great heroism in battle'. 'he received a medal for valor'
tenuity;the quality of lacking intensity or substance. 'a shrill yet sweet tenuity of voice'- nathaniel hawthorne
intrepidity;resolute courageousness
doctor of humane letters;an honorary degree in letters
corporeality;the quality of being physical. consisting of matter
life;animation and energy in action or expression. 'it was a heavy play and the actors tried in vain to give life to it'
doubtfulness;uncertainty about the truth or factuality of existence of something. 'the dubiousness of his claim'. 'there is no question about the validity of the enterprise'
brutality;the trait of extreme cruelty
approach;the temporal property of becoming nearer in time. 'the approach of winter'
pitilessness;mercilessness characterized by a lack of pity
loving kindness;tender kindness motivated by a feeling of affection
brashness;the trait of being rash and hasty
temerity;fearless daring
ineffectuality;lacking the power to be effective
abruptness;the quality of happening with headlong haste or without warning
tallness;the vertical dimension of extension. distance from the base of something to the top
genteelness;elegance by virtue of fineness of manner and expression
comradeliness;the quality of affording easy familiarity and sociability
unprofitability;the quality of affording no gain or no benefit or no profit
instancy;the quickness of action or occurrence. 'the immediacy of their response'. 'the instancy of modern communication'
gracefulness;beautiful carriage
goodness;that which is good or valuable or useful: 'weigh the good against the bad'. 'among the highest goods of all are happiness and self-realization'
tantrism;doctrine of enlightenment as the realization of the oneness of one's self and the visible world. combines elements of hinduism and paganism including magical and mystical elements like mantras and mudras and erotic rites. especially influential in tibet
purple;a chromatic color between red and blue
specialty;a distinguishing trait
predomination;the quality of being more noticeable than anything else. 'the predomination of blues gave the painting a quiet tone'
senility;the state of being senile
cheapness;tastelessness by virtue of being cheap and vulgar
pepperiness;a hot spiciness
songfulness;the property of being suitable for singing
fleetingness;the property of lasting for a very short time
invariability;a quality of uniformity and lack of variation
enduringness;permanence by virtue of the power to resist stress or force. 'they advertised the durability of their products'
harmony;compatibility in opinion and action
hoodoo;a practitioner of voodoo
tirelessness;tireless determination
unconstraint;the trait of lacking restraint or control. freedom from inhibition or worry. 'she danced with abandon'
shit;something of little value. 'it is not worth a damn'. 'not worth shucks'
foible;an behavioral attribute that is distinctive and peculiar to an individual
meritoriousness;the quality of being deserving (e.g., deserving assistance). 'there were many children whose deservingness he recognized and rewarded'
congenialness;compatibility between persons
toilsomeness;the quality of requiring extended effort
toughness;enduring strength and energy
green thumb;a special ability to make plants grow
shapeliness;the quality of having a well-rounded body
information;(communication theory) a numerical measure of the uncertainty of an outcome. 'the signal contained thousands of bits of information'
lastingness;permanence by virtue of the power to resist stress or force. 'they advertised the durability of their products'
unfavorable position;the quality of being a competitive disadvantage
authorization;a power delegated from one person to another. 'deputies are given the power to make arrests'
international pitch;the pitch used to tune instruments for concert performances. usually assigns 440 hz to the a above middle c
harshness;the quality of being cruel and causing tension or annoyance
distrustfulness;the trait of not trusting others
finesse;subtly skillful handling of a situation
vice;moral weakness
palpability;the quality of being perceivable by touch
humour;the quality of being funny. 'i fail to see the humor in it'
choiceness;the quality of being very good indeed. 'the inn is distinguished by the fineness of its cuisine'
adhesiveness;the property of sticking together (as of glue and wood)
uneasiness;inability to rest or relax or be still
air;a distinctive but intangible quality surrounding a person or thing: 'an atmosphere of defeat pervaded the candidate's headquarters'. 'the place had an aura of romance'
hairlessness;the quality of not having hair
personal magnetism;a personal attractiveness that enables you to influence others
sharpness;a sharp bitter taste property
ebony;a very dark black
unpropitiousness;the quality of suggesting an unsuccessful result
expression;the expression on a person's face. 'a sad expression'. 'a look of triumph'. 'an angry face'
intensity;a measure of the amount of energy transmitted (as by acoustic or electromagnetic radiation). 'he adjusted the intensity of the sound'. 'they measured the station's signal strength'
esurience;extreme gluttony
readiness;a natural effortlessness. 'a happy readiness of conversation'--jane austen
simpleness;the quality of being simple or uncompounded. 'the simplicity of a crystal'
incurability;incapability of being cured or healed
unpredictability;lacking predictability
definition;clarity of outline. 'exercise had give his muscles superior definition'
uncertainty;being unsettled or in doubt: 'the uncertainty of the outcome'
superpatriotism;fanatical patriotism
suppleness;the gracefulness of a person or animal that is flexible and supple
wine colored;a red as dark as red wine
amplitude level;the level on a scale of amplitude
viscidity;the property of being cohesive and sticky
glisten;the quality of glittering or sparkling brightly
eccentricity;a circularity that has a different center or deviates from a circular path
guts;(informal) fortitude. 'he didn't have the guts to try it'
gaudiness;strident color or excessive ornamentation
mark;the impression created by doing something unusual or extraordinary that people notice and remember. 'it was in london that he made his mark'. 'he left an indelible mark on the american theater'
gamboge;a strong yellow color
hesitancy;a certain degree of unwillingness. 'a reluctance to commit himself'. 'after some hesitation he agreed'
productivity;the quality of being productive or having the power to produce
crudeness;an impolite manner that is vulgar and lacking tact or refinement. 'the whole town was famous for its crudeness'
puritanism;the beliefs and practices characteristic of puritans (most of whom were calvinists who wished to purify the church of england of its catholic aspects)
spitefulness;malevolence by virtue of being malicious or spiteful or nasty
mercilessness;inhumaneness evidenced by an unwillingness to be kind or forgiving
graciousness;excellence of manners or social conduct
purpose;the quality of being determined to do or achieve something. 'his determination showed in his every movement'. 'he is a man of purpose'
filiation;inherited properties shared with others of your bloodline
low density;a rarified quality: 'the tenuity of the upper atmosphere'
chubbiness;the property of having a plump and round body
extreme;the furthest or highest degree of something. 'he carried it to extremes'
scrawniness;the bodily property of lacking flesh
assessment;the market value set on assets
imperishingness;the property of being resistant to decay. 'he advertised the imperishability of the product'
unwariness;the trait of not being cautious and watchful
standoffishness;a disposition to be distant and unsympathetic in manner
voracity;extreme gluttony
adequacy;a quantity or number sufficient for a purpose
primness;exaggerated and arrogant properness
splendour;the quality of being magnificent or splendid or grand
deprivation;the disadvantage that results from losing something. 'his loss of credibility led to his resignation' or 'losing him is no great deprivation'
mobility;the quality of moving freely
desirability;attractiveness to the opposite sex
use;a particular service. 'he put his knowledge to good use'. 'patrons have their uses'
ocher;a moderate yellow-orange to orange color
parsimony;extreme care in spending money. reluctance to spend money unnecessarily
iron gray;the color of freshly broken cast iron
manners;social deportment. 'he has the manners of a pig'
hoarseness;a throaty harshness
irregularity;an irregular asymmetry in shape. an irregular spatial pattern
knottiness;puzzling complexity
diligence;conscientiousness in paying proper attention to a task. giving the degree of care required in a given situation
operoseness;the quality of requiring extended effort
drop;a sharp decrease in some quantity: 'a drop of 57 points on the dow jones index'. 'there was a drop in pressure in the pulmonary artery'
unselfishness;the quality of not putting yourself first but being willing to give your time or money or effort etc. for others. 'rural people show more devotion and unselfishness than do their urban cousins'
enterprise;readiness to embark on bold new ventures
silkiness;the smooth feel of silk fabric
exoticness;the quality of being exotic. 'he loved the exocitism of egypt'
toxicity;grave harmfulness or deadliness
childishness;a property characteristic of a child
precision;the quality of being precise in amount or performance. 'he handled it with the preciseness of an automaton'. 'note the meticulous precision of his measurements'
heftiness;the property of being large in mass
importance;the quality of being important and worthy of note. 'the importance of a well-balanced diet'
orange red;a variable color that is vivid red but sometimes with an orange tinge
lyricism;the property of being suitable for singing
credibleness;the quality of being believable or trustworthy
carnation;a pink or reddish-pink color
quality;"a characteristic property that defines the apparent individual nature of something. 'each town has a quality all its own'. 'the radical character of our demands'"
solitude;a disposition toward being alone
variance;a difference between conflicting facts or claims or opinions. 'a growing divergence of opinion'
obeah;a religious belief of african origin involving witchcraft and sorcery. practiced in parts of the west indies and tropical americas
associate in applied science;an associate degree in applied science
account;the quality of taking advantage. 'she turned her writing skills to good account'
unalterability;the quality of being fixed and unchangeable. 'the fixedness of his gaze upset her'
coral;a variable color averaging a deep pink
hot stuff;(informal) the quality of being attractive and exciting (especially sexually exciting). 'he thought she was really hot stuff'
developmental age;a measure of a child's development (in body size or motor skill or psychological function) expressed in terms of age norms
hydrogen ion concentration;the number of moles of hydrogen ions per cubic decimeter
rose;a dusty pink color
incalescence;the property of being warming
futurity;the quality of being in or of the future
ivory;a shade of white the color of bleached bones
calvinism;the theological system of john calvin and his followers emphasizing omnipotence of god and salvation by grace alone
reach;an area in which something acts or operates or has power or control: 'the range of a supersonic jet'. 'the ambit of municipal legislation'. 'within the compass of this article'. within the scope of an investigation'. 'outside the reach of the law'. 'in the political orbit of a world power'
level best;the greatestest possible degree. 'he tried his utmost'
asana;(hindu) a manner of sitting (as in the practice of yoga)
cohesiveness;the property of being cohesive and sticky
acridness;extreme bitterness: 'the acridity of alkali'
aura;an indication of radiant light drawn around the head of a saint
glister;the quality of glittering or sparkling brightly
equivalence;essential equality and interchangeability
signature;a distinguishing style. 'this room needs a woman's touch'
alchemy;a power like that claimed by alchemists: 'a mysterious alchemy brought the musician and the music to ultimate fusion'
dds;a doctor's degree in dental surgery
snuff colour;dark yellowish brown
pluckiness;the trait of showing courage and determination in spite of possible loss or injury
perimeter;the size of something as given by the distance around it
properness;correct or appropriate behavior
thirst;strong desire for something (not food or drink): 'a thirst for knowledge'. 'hunger for affection'
visual aspect;outward or visible aspect of a person or thing
impenitency;the trait of refusing to repent
bachelor of science in architecture;a bachelor's degree in architecture
real mccoy;informal usage attributing authenticity
erectness;the property of being upright in posture
overgrowth;a profusion of growth on or over something else
effulgence;the quality of being bright and sending out rays of light
frankness;the trait of being blunt and outspoken
oil stain;a stain produced by oil
unpointedness;the property of having only a dull point if any
bookishness;exaggerated studiousness
shortness;an abrupt discourteous manner
sweetness;a pleasingly sweet olfactory property
ph;p(otential of) h(ydrogen). the logarithm of the reciprocal of hydrogen-ion concentration in gram atoms per liter. used as a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution on a scale of 0-14 (where 7 is neutral)
blood heat;normal body temperature. 98.6f or 37 c
ms;a master's degree in science
academism;orthodoxy of a scholastic variety
relative density;the ratio of the density of something to the density of a standard
loveliness;the quality of being good looking and attractive
new moon;the time at which the moon appears as a narrow waxing crescent
religious cult;a system of religious beliefs and rituals
quaintness;the quality of being quaint and old-fshioned. 'she liked the old cottage. its quaintness was appealing'
marriageability;eligibility for marriage
skip distance;the shortest distance that permits radio signals (of a given frequency) to travel from the transmitter to the receiver by reflection from the ionosphere
likeness;similarity in appearance or character or nature between persons or things: 'man created god in his own likeness'
nonconformity;unorthodoxy as a consequence of not conforming to expected standards or values
negativism;characterized by habitual skepticism and a tendency to deny or oppose or resist suggestions or commands
refulgence;the quality of being bright and sending out rays of light
ampleness;the property of impressive largeness in size. 'he admired the ampleness of its proportions'
narcissism;an exceptional interest in and admiration for yourself
inconsistency;the quality of being inconsistent and lacking a harmonious uniformity among things or parts
precaution;the trait of practicing caution in advance
ring;a characteristic sound. 'it has the ring of sincerity'
discourtesy;a manner that is rude and insulting
trait;"a distinguishing feature of one's personal nature"
indispensableness;the quality possessed by something that you cannot possibly do without
slipperiness;the quality of being a slippery rascal
sprawling;an ungainly posture with arms and legs spread about
par value;the value of a security that is set by the company issuing it. unrelated to market value
cytoarchitecture;the cellular composition of a bodily structure
bachelor of science in engineering;a bachelor's degree in engineering
uniformity;a condition in which everything is regular and unvarying
daredevilry;boldness as manifested in rash and daredevil behavior
vigor;an imaginative lively style (especially style of writing). 'his writing conveys great energy'
asymmetry;(mathematics) a lack of symmetry
slightness;the quality of being unimportant and petty or frivolous
noise level;the amplitude level of the undesired background noise
islamism;the monotheistic religion of muslims based on the koran
ostentation;lack of elegance as a consequence of pomposity
low quality;an inferior quality
noble mindedness;elevated ideals or conduct. the quality of believing that ideals should be pursued
overweight;the property of excessive fatness
listlessness;inactivity resulting from torpidity and lack of vigor or energy
one dimensionality;the property of having one dimension
poorness;the quality of being poorly made or maintained. 'she was unrecognizable because of the poorness of the photography'
achromia;(medical) an absence of normal pigmentation especially in the skin (as in albinism) or in red blood cells
wastefulness;the trait of wasting resources. 'a life characterized by thriftlessness and waste'. 'the wastefulness of missed opportunities'
acreage;an area of ground used for some particular purpose (such as building or farming). 'he wanted some acreage to build on'
high quality;the quality of being superior
legitimacy;lawfulness by virtue of being authorized or in accordance with law
gap;a conspicuous disparity or difference as between two figures: 'gap between income and outgo'. 'the spread between lending and borrowing costs'
fabric;the underlying structure. 'restoring the framework of the bombed building'. 'it is part of the fabric of society'
standard;the value behind the money in a monetary system
unboundedness;the quality of being infinite. without bound or limit
insentience;lacking consciousness or ability to perceive sensations
privilege;a special advantage or immunity or benefit not enjoyed by all
fourth dimension;the fourth coordinate that is required (along with three spatial dimensions) to specify a physical event
disquiet;the trait of seeming ill at ease
payne s gray;any pigment that produces a grayish to dark grayish blue
timorousness;fearfulness in venturing into new and unknown places or activities
ellipticity;the property possessed by a rounded shape that is flattened at the poles. 'the oblateness of the planet'
genetic constitution;the particular alleles at specified loci present in an organism
unexchangeability;the quality of being incapable of exchange or interchange
ruthlessness;mercilessness characterized by a lack of pity
harshness;harsh or rough to the ear
wholeheartedness;undivided commitment or unreserved enthusiasm
tinker s dam;something of little value. 'it is not worth a damn'. 'not worth shucks'
glint;a momentary brightness
thievishness;having a disposition to steal
stance;standing posture
cardinal;a variable color averaging a vivid red
torridity;extreme heat
vantage;the quality of having a superior or more favorable position. 'he experience gave him the advantage over me'
total heat;the sum of the internal energy of a system and the product of its volume and pressure
deadness;the physical property of something that has lost its elasticity. 'he objected to the deadness of the tennis balls'
musicality;the property of sounding like music
spunk;the courage to carry on: 'he kept fighting on pure spunk'. 'you haven't got the heart for baseball'
orthogonality;the quality of lying or intersecting at right angles
innocence;the quality of innocent naivete
shortfall;the property of being an amount by which something is less than expected or required
erroneousness;inadvertent incorrectness
regularity;the quality of being characterized by a fixed principle or rate. 'he was famous for the regularity of his habits'
impressiveness;splendid or imposing in size or appearance. 'the grandness of the architecture'
numerousness;a large number
heaviness;the property of being comparatively great in weight. 'the heaviness of lead'
promptness;the quality or habit of adhering to an appointed time
rationality;the quality of being consistent with or based on logic
dispassionateness;objectivity and detachment
dph;a doctor's degree in preventive medicine
promise;grounds for feeling hopeful about the future. 'there is little or no promise that he will recover'
mildness;mercifulness as a consequence of being lenient or tolerant
consistency;a harmonious uniformity or agreement among things or parts
mental age;the level of intellectual development as measured by an intelligence test
reprehensibility;being reprehensible. worthy of and deserving reprehension or reproof
orange;any of a range of colors between red and yellow
illegality;unlawfulness by virtue of violating some legal statute
forthrightness;the quality of being honest and straightforward in attitude and speech
voice;the ability to speak. 'he lost his voice'
adiposity;having the property of containing fat. 'he recommended exercise to reduce my adiposity'
immateriality;the quality of not being physical. not consisting of matter
saccharinity;the sweetness of saccharin
musd;a doctor's degree in music
laterality;superior development of one side of the body
poorness;the quality of being meager. 'an exiguity of cloth that would only allow of miniature capes'-george eliot
reverberance;having the character of a loud deep sound
incorrectness;the quality of not conforming to fact or truth
logicalness;correct and valid reasoning
strength;a measure of the amount of energy transmitted (as by acoustic or electromagnetic radiation). 'he adjusted the intensity of the sound'. 'they measured the station's signal strength'
efficaciousness;capacity or power to produce a desired effect
accessibility;the attribute of being easy to meet or deal with
magnificence;splendid or imposing in size or appearance. 'the grandness of the architecture'
sense of humour;the trait of appreciating (and being able to express) the humorous. 'she didn't appreciate my humor.' 'you can't survive in the army without a sense of humor'
immovableness;no capable of being moved or rearranged
mulishness;the trait of being difficult to handle or overcome
advisability;the quality of being advisable. 'they questioned the advisability of our policy'
rightness;appropriate conduct. doing the right thing
felicity;pleasing and appropriate manner or style esp of expression
stoutness;the property of being strong and resolute
manipulability;the quality of being controllable by skilled movements of the hands
plantar wart;a wart occurring on the sole of the foot. 'pressure causes plantar warts to develop a painful callus around the soft center'
crossness;a disposition to be ill tempered
romanism;the beliefs and practices of the catholic church based in rome
bloodthirstiness;cruelty evidence by a capability to commit murder
orange yellow;a shade of yellow tinged with orange
resilience;the physical property of a material that can return to its original shape or position after deformation
solidarity;a union of interests or purposes or sympathies among members of a group
uniqueness;the quality of being one of a kind. 'that singularity distinguished him from all his companions'
solarization;exposure to the rays of the sun
inaccessibility;the quality of not being unavailable when needed
mals;a master's degree in library science
unlikelihood;the improbability of a specified outcome
lusterlessness;the property of having little or no contrast
otherness;the quality of being not alike. being distinct or different from that otherwise experienced or known
help;a resource: 'visual aids in teaching'. 'economic assistance to depressed areas'
concentricity;the quality of having the same center (as circles inside one another)
musicalness;the property of sounding like music
verruca acuminata;a small benign wart on or around the genitals and anus
pretense;a false or unsupportable quality
jejuneness;quality of lacking nutritive value
justice;the quality of being just or fair
constriction;a narrowing that reduces the flow through a channel
innumerableness;a number beyond counting
unevenness;the quality of being unbalanced
beige;a very light brown
thb;a bachelor's degree in theology
readability;writing (print or handwriting) that can be easily read
intensiveness;high level or degree. the property of being intense
lightness;the property of being comparatively small in weight. 'the lightness of balsa wood'
granularity;the quality of being composed of relatively large particles
permissiveness;a disposition to allow freedom of choice and behavior
evenness;a quality of uniformity and lack of variation
pusillanimity;contemptible fearfulness
harshness;the roughness of a substance that causes abrasions
invisibility;the quality of not being perceivable by the eye
affability;a disposition to be friendly and approachable (easy to talk to)
morbidness;the quality of being unhealthful and generally bad for you
furiousness;the property of being wild or turbulent. 'the storm's violence'
recalcitrance;the trait of being unmanageable
worthlessness;the quality of being without practical use
sweep;a wide scope. 'the sweep of the plains'
brahmanism;the religious beliefs of ancient india as prescribed in the sacred vedas and brahmanas and upanishads
co occurrence;the temporal property of two things happening at the same time. 'the interval determining the coincidence gate is adjustable'
nonchalance;the trait of remaining calm and seeming not to care. a casual lack of concern
temperament;your usual mood. 'he has a happy disposition'
pride;the trait of being spurred on by a dislike of falling below your standards
pliability;the property of being easily bent without breaking
forcefulness;physical energy or intensity: 'he hit with all the force he could muster'. 'it was destroyed by the strength of the gale'. 'a government has not the vitality and forcefulness of a living man'
malevolency;the quality of threatening evil
bilateral symmetry;the property of being symmetrical about a vertical plane
sound judgment;the capacity to assess situations or circumstances shrewdly and to draw sound conclusions
homogeny;(biology) similarity because of common evolution
mindfulness;the trait of staying aware of (paying close attention to) your responsibilities
eastern catholicism;the beliefs and practices of any of the eastern catholic churches based in constantinople
parseeism;zoroastrian sect in india
consonance;the property of sounding harmonious
slatternliness;in the manner of a slattern
parallel;something having the property of being analogous to something else
nasal twang;exaggerated nasality in speech (as in some regional dialects)
splendour;a quality that outshines the usual
easiness;freedom from difficulty or hardship or effort: 'he rose through the ranks with apparent ease'. 'they put it into containers for ease of transportation'
contentiousness;a disposition to fight
commutability;the quality of being commutable
unpopularity;the quality of lacking general approval or acceptance
rashness;the trait of giving little thought to danger
resourcefulness;the quality of being able to cope with a difficult situation: 'a man of great resourcefulness'
highness;the condition of being high or lofty
combativeness;a militant aggressiveness
nationalism;love of country and willingness to sacrifice for it
bargain rate;a price below the standard price
deformity;an appearance that has been spoiled or is misshapen
complaisance;a disposition or tendency to yield to the will of others
fondness;a quality proceeding from feelings of affection or love
ostentatiousness;lack of elegance as a consequence of pomposity
resiliency;the physical property of a material that can return to its original shape or position after deformation
unworthiness;the quality of being bad by virtue of lacking merit or value
humor;the trait of appreciating (and being able to express) the humorous. 'she didn't appreciate my humor.' 'you can't survive in the army without a sense of humor'
spirit;animation and energy in action or expression. 'it was a heavy play and the actors tried in vain to give life to it'
tackiness;tastelessness by virtue of being cheap and vulgar
refractivity;the physical property of a medium as determined by its index of refraction
paltriness;worthlessness due to insignificance
limpidity;passing light without diffusion or distortion
deflection;the property of being bent or deflected
polish;the property of being smooth and shiny
cumbersomeness;trouble in carrying or managing caused by bulk or shape: 'the movers cursed the unwieldiness of the big piano'
inanity;total lack of meaning or ideas
jejunity;quality of lacking nutritive value
makeup;the way in which someone or something is composed
pigheadedness;resolute adherence to your own ideas or desires
high pitch;a pitch that is perceived as above other pitches
saltiness;the property of containing salt (as a compound or in solution)
credulousness;tendency to believe too readily and therefore to be easily deceived
inopportuneness;the quality of occurring at an inconvenient time
bottle green;dark to moderate or grayish green
equivocation;intentionally vague or ambiguous
sprawl;an ungainly posture with arms and legs spread about
bachelor of divinity;a bachelor's degree in religion
considerateness;kind and considerate regard for others. 'he showed no consideration for her feelings'
undutifulness;impiety characterized by lack of devotion to duty
steel gray;slightly purplish or bluish dark gray
statesmanship;wisdom in the management of public affairs
temper;the elasticity and hardness of a metal object. its ability to absorb considerable energy before cracking
uncommunicativeness;the trait of being uncommunicative
variability;the quality of being subject to variation
symmetricalness;(mathematics) an attribute of a shape. exact correspondence of form on opposite sides of a dividing line or plane
lambency;an appearance of reflected light
dishonourableness;the quality of not deserving honor or respect
binding;the capacity to attract and hold something
naiveness;lack of sophistication or worldliness
incongruousness;the quality of disagreeing. being unsuitable and inappropriate
slimness;the property of an attractively thin person
sprightliness;animation and energy in action or expression. 'it was a heavy play and the actors tried in vain to give life to it'
malevolence;the quality of threatening evil
tax hike;the amount by which taxes are increased. 'a tax increase of 15 percent'
tenor;the pitch range of the highest male voice
definiteness;the quality of being predictable with great confidence
camaraderie;spirit of friendly familiarity and goodwill between comrades
softness;a sound property that is free from loudness or stridency
milliequivalent;one-thousandth of an equivalent
body odour;malodourousness resulting from a failure to bathe
grossness;the quality of lacking taste and refinement
peacock blue;a shade of blue tinged with green
glow;light from nonthermal sources
hallmark;a distinctive characteristic or attribute
master of architecture;a degree granted for the successful completion of advanced study of architecture
shortness;the property of being of short temporal extent
turbidness;muddiness created by stirring up sediment or having foreign particles suspended
tenability;the quality of being plausible or acceptable to a reasonable person. 'he questioned the tenability of my claims'
bouquet;a pleasingly sweet olfactory property
differentia;a distinguishing characteristic esp in different species of a genus
wisdom;the trait of utilizing knowledge and experience with common sense and insight
limitation;the quality of being limited or restricted. 'it is a good plan but it has serious limitations'
illumination;the luminous flux incident on a unit area
delectability;extreme appetizingness
unreliableness;the trait of not being dependable or reliable
subtlety;the quality of being difficult to detect or analyze. 'you had to admire the subtlety of the distinctions he drew'
infiniteness;the quality of being infinite. without bound or limit
betrayal;the quality of aiding an enemy
temporariness;the property of lasting only a short time
angularity;the property possessed by a shape that has angles
deliberateness;the trait of thoughtfulness in action or decision. 'he was a man of judicial deliberation'
multifariousness;noticeable heterogeneity. 'a diversity of possibilities'. 'the range and variety of his work is amazing'
superficiality;lack of depth of knowledge or thought or feeling
plenty;a full supply. 'there was plenty of food for everyone'
burnt umber;a medium to dark brown color
clannishness;tendency to associate with only a select group
unbreakableness;a consistency of something that does not break under pressure
reversibility;the quality of being reversible in either direction
honours;(great britain) a university degree with honors
unoriginality;the quality of being unoriginal
boldness;the quality of standing out strongly and distinctly
blackness;the quality or state of the achromatic color of least lightness (bearing the least resemblance to white)
pertinacity;persistent determination
liberality;the trait of being generous in behavior and temperament
accuracy;(mathematics) the number of significant figures given in a number. 'the atomic clock enabled scientists to measure time with much greater accuracy'
profuseness;the property of being extremely abundant
market price;the price at which buyers and sellers trade the item in an open marketplace
visual property;an attribute of vision
master of arts in library science;a master's degree in library science
tallness;the property of being taller than average stature
incredibleness;the quality of being incredible
acerbity;a sharp and bitter manner
intangibleness;the quality of being intangible
cast;the visual appearance of something or someone. 'the delicate cast of his features'
effect;(of a law) having legal validity. 'the law is still in effect'
admirability;admirable excellence
valorousness;the qualities of a hero or heroine. exceptional or heroic courage when facing danger (especially in battle). 'he showed great heroism in battle'. 'he received a medal for valor'
accord;sympathetic compatibility
friability;excessive breakableness
goodness;moral excellence or admirableness: 'there is much good to be found in people'
greediness;an excessive desire for wealth (usually in large amounts). 'the greediness of lawyers'
doctor of musical arts;a doctor's degree in musical arts
vigor;active strength of body or mind
carte blanche;complete freedom or authority to act
dispatch;the property of being prompt and efficient. 'it was done with dispatch'
flimsiness;the property of weakness by virtue of careless construction
coloration;appearance with regard to color: 'her healthy coloration'
ecru;a very light brown
handiness;the quality of being at hand when needed
genuineness;undisputed credibility
christianity;the system of christian beliefs and practices
heft;the property of being large in mass
spark advance;the timing of ignition relative to the position of the piston in an internal-combustion engine
stiffness;the physical property of being inflexible and hard to bend
hardiness;the property of strong in constitution
obscenity;the trait of behaving in an obscene manner
green fingers;a special ability to make plants grow
articulateness;the quality of being facile in speech and writing
illegitimacy;unlawfulness by virtue of not being authorized by or in accordance with law
lateness;quality of coming late or later in time
torpidity;inactivity resulting from torpidity and lack of vigor or energy
fibre;the inherent complex of attributes that determine a persons moral and ethical actions and reactions: 'educaton has for its object the formation of character'- herbert spencer
reddish blue;a variable color that lies beyond blue in the spectrum
gaseousness;having the consistency of a gas
retentiveness;the power of retaining liquid: 'moisture retentivity of soil'
penalty;the disadvantage or painful consequences of an action or condition: 'neglected his health and paid the penalty'
nick;an impression in a surface (as made by a blow)
account;importance or value. 'a person of considerable account'. 'he predicted that although it is of small account now it will rapidly increase in importance'
comeliness;the quality of being good looking and attractive
seventh day adventism;adventism that is strongly protestant and observes saturday as the sabbath
implausibleness;the quality of provoking disbelief
airiness;the property of something spacious and abounding in fresh air
ultramarine;vivid blue to purple-blue
privateness;the quality of being secluded from the presence or view of others
temperance;the trait of avoiding excesses
margin;the blank space that surrounds the text on a page
time of origin;the oldness of wines
flair;distinctive and stylish elegance. 'he wooed her with the confident dash of a cavalry officer'
canary yellow;a moderate yellow with a greenish tinge
idiosyncrasy;an behavioral attribute that is distinctive and peculiar to an individual
position;position or arrangement of the body and its limbs. 'he assumed an attitude of surrender'
obedience;the trait of being willing to obey
sparkle;brightness and animation of countenance. 'he had a sparkle in his eye'
duplicability;the quality of being reproducible
aplomb;great coolness and composure under strain. 'keep your cool'
lld;an honorary law degree
shrinkage;the amount by which something shrinks
half intensity;half the maximum intensity
bravery;a quality of spirit that enables you to face danger of pain without showing fear
reflexion;a likeness in which left and right are reversed
leisureliness;slowness by virtue of being leisurely
cheekiness;the trait of being rude and impertinent. inclined to take liberties
complicatedness;puzzling complexity
off white;a shade of white the color of bleached bones
curableness;capability of being cured or healed
pettiness;lack of generosity in trifling matters
far cry;a disappointing disparity. 'it was a far cry from what he had expected'
roman catholicism;the beliefs and practices of the catholic church based in rome
graininess;the quality of being composed of relatively large particles
unseasonableness;being at an inappropriate time
color;outward or token appearance or form. 'he tried to give his actions a semblance of authenticity'. 'the situation soon took on a different color'
camouflage;an outward semblance that misrepresents the true nature of something. 'the theatrical notion of disguise is always associated with catastrophe in his stories'
atomic weight;(chemistry) the ratio of the atomic mass of an element to half the atomic mass of carbon-12
master of arts in teaching;a master's degree in teaching
directivity;the property of a microphone or antenna of being more sensitive in one direction than in another
incontrovertibleness;the quality of being undeniable and not worth arguing about
preference;grant of favor or advantage to one over another (esp to a country or countries in matters of international trade such as levying duties)
verruca;(pathology) a firm abnormal elevated blemish on the skin. caused by a virus
distinction;a distinguishing difference: 'he learned the distinction between gold and lead'
idiom;the style of a particular artist or school or movement. 'an imaginative orchestral idiom'
inutility;the quality of having to practical use
stinkiness;the attribute of having a strong offensive smell
vivacity;characterized by high spirits and animation
intractability;the trait of being hard to influence or control
pointlessness;total lack of meaning or ideas
beauty;the qualities that give pleasure to the senses
playfulness;a disposition to find (or make) causes for amusement. 'her playfulness surprised me'. 'he was fun to be with'
lengthiness;amount or degree or range to which something extends: 'the wire has an extension of 50 feet'
serviceability;the quality of being able to provide good service
craftiness;the quality of being crafty
tinker s damn;something of little value. 'it is not worth a damn'. 'not worth shucks'
oversupply;the quality of being so overabundant that prices fall
competence;the quality of being adequately or well qualified physically and intellectually
juvenility;the freshness and vitality characteristic of a young person
breakability;quality of being easily damaged or destroyed
falsetto;a male singing voice with artificially high tones in an upper register
oomph;attractiveness to the opposite sex
low;a low level or position or degree: 'the stock market fell to a new low'
treatment;a manner of dealing with something artistically. 'his treatment of space borrows from italian architecture'
incontinence;indiscipline with regard to sensuous pleasures
recalcitrancy;the trait of being unmanageable
tarnish;discoloration of metal surface caused by oxidation
decency;the quality of conforming to standards of propriety and morality
oldness;the opposite of newness
bad manners;impoliteness resulting from ignorance
eversion;the position of being turned outward. 'the eversion of the foot'
thriftlessness;the trait of wasting resources. 'a life characterized by thriftlessness and waste'. 'the wastefulness of missed opportunities'
valence;(chemistry) a property of atoms or radicals. their combining power given in terms of the number of hydrogen atoms (or the equivalent)
nature;the complex of emotional and intellectual attributes that determine a person's characteristic actions and reactions: 'it is his nature to help others'
renal insufficiency;insufficient excretion of wastes by the kidneys
expansiveness;a friendly open trait of a talkative person
aposematic coloration;conspicuous coloration or markings of an animal serving to warn off predators: 'a skunk's aposematic coloration'
merriness;the trait of merry joking
doctor of public health;a doctor's degree in preventive medicine
deceptiveness;the quality of being deceptive
darkness;having a dark or somber color
mightiness;physical strength
rightness;conformity with some esthetic standard of correctness or propriety. 'it was performed with justness and beauty'
demeanor;behavioral attributes
unruliness;the trait of being prone to disobedience and lack of discipline
perspective;the appearance of things relative to one another as determined by their distance from the viewer
tax advantage;an advantage bestowed by legislation that reduces a tax on some preferred activity
manfulness;the trait of being manly. having the characteristics of an adult male
brilliancy;a quality that outshines the usual
incorruptness;characterized by integrity or probity
neatness;the trait of being neat and orderly
difficultness;the quality of being difficult. 'they agreed about the difficulty of the climb'
supplement;a quantity added. e.g. to make up for a deficiency
verisimilitude;the appearance of truth. the quality of seeming to be true
jade;a light green color varying from bluish green to yellowish green
glutinosity;the property of having a viscosity like jelly
ash grey;a light shade of gray
corruption;lack of integrity or honesty. esp susceptibility to bribery. use of a position of trust for dishonest gain
adequacy;the quality of being able to meet a need satisfactorily: 'he questioned the adequacy of the usual sentimental interpretation of the golden rule
dependability;the trait of being dependable or reliable
bigheartedness;the quality of being kind and generous
lightsomeness;the trait of being lighthearted and frivolous
come on;qualities that attract by seeming to promise some kind of reward
weeness;the property of being very small in size
lodgement;the state or quality of being lodged or fixed even temporarily: 'the lodgment of the balloon in the tree'
burnish;the property of being smooth and shiny
power;physical strength
wheels;forces that provide energy and direction. 'the wheels of government began to turn'
alertness;lively attentiveness
trustingness;the trait of trusting. of believing in the honesty and reliability of others. 'the experience destroyed his trust and personal dignity'
perfectionism;a disposition to feel that anything less than perfect is unacceptable. 'his perfectionism seemed excessive to his students'
obi;a religious belief of african origin involving witchcraft and sorcery. practiced in parts of the west indies and tropical americas
candor;the quality of being honest and straightforward in attitude and speech
adherence;the property of sticking together (as of glue and wood)
glueyness;the property of being cohesive and sticky
complexion;texture and appearance of the skin of the face
real thing;informal usage attributing authenticity
gaucherie;the quality of being rustic or gauche
historicalness;significance owing to its history
rain;anything happening rapidly or in quick successive. 'a rain of bullets'. 'a pelting of insults'
wavering;the quality of being unsteady and subject to fluctuations. 'he kept a record of price fluctuations'
selective information;(communication theory) a numerical measure of the uncertainty of an outcome. 'the signal contained thousands of bits of information'
smear;a blemish made by dirt. 'he had a smudge on his cheek'
wrong;that which is contrary to the principles of justice or law. 'he feels that you are in the wrong'
remissness;the quality of being lax and neglectful
contemporaneousness;the quality of belonging to the same period of time
loftiness;impressiveness in scale or proportion
unlawfulness;the quality of failing to conform to law
brilliance;the quality of being magnificent or splendid or grand
mercifulness;a disposition to be kind and forgiving. 'in those days a wife had to depend on the mercifulness of her husband'
inconvenience;the quality of an embarrassing situation. 'he sensed the awkwardness of his proposal'
color;the timbre of a musical sound. 'the recording fails to capture the true color of the original music'
sort;an approximate definition or example. 'she wore a sort of magenta dress'. 'she served a creamy sort of dessert thing'
toothsomeness;extreme appetizingness
loquaciousness;the quality of being wordy and talkative
azure;a light shade of blue
soberness;a manner that is serious and solemn
zoroastrianism;system founded in persia in the 6th century b.c. by zoroaster. set forth in the zend-avesta. based on concept of struggle between light (good) and dark (evil)
attractiveness;the quality of arousing interest. being attractive or something that attracts. 'her personality held a strange attraction for him'
desirableness;the quality of being worthy of desiring
bone age;a person's age measured by matching their bone development (as shown by x rays) with with the bone development of an average person of known chronological age
navy;a dark shade of blue
demonstrativeness;tending to express your feelings freely
superiority;the quality of being superior
inadvisability;the quality of being ill advised
unquestionableness;the quality of being beyond question or dispute or doubt
chronological age;age measured by the time (years and months) that something or someone has existed. 'his chronological age was 71 years'
pricelessness;the positive quality of being precious and beyond value
distance;a measure of the gap between two places. 'the distance from new york to chicago'. 'he determined the length of the shortest line segment joining the two points'
truculence;obstreperous and defiant aggressiveness
difference;the quality of being unlike or dissimilar: 'there are many differences between jazz and rock'
hoydenism;masculinity in women (especially in girls and young women)
uppityness;assumption of airs beyond one's station
imprecision;the quality of lacking precision
individuality;the quality of being individual: 'so absorbed by the movement that she lost all sense of individuality'
domestication;the attribute of having been domesticated
piquance;a tart spiciness
responsibleness;ability or necessity to answer for or be responsible for one's conduct. 'he holds a position of great responsibility'. 'young children on a farm are often given responsibilities'
point;an outstanding characteristic. 'his acting was one of the high points of the movie'
savagery;the trait of extreme cruelty
heedlessness;the trait of acting rashly and without prudence
emerald;the green color of an emerald
good;that which is good or valuable or useful: 'weigh the good against the bad'. 'among the highest goods of all are happiness and self-realization'
transience;an impermanence that suggests the inevitability of ending or dying
barbarousness;the quality of being shockingly cruel and inhumane
suspicion;being of a suspicious nature. 'his suspiciousness destroyed his marriage'
tolerance;a disposition to allow freedom of choice and behavior
disagreeableness;an ill-tempered and offensive disposition
image;(jungian psychology) a personal facade one presents to the world. 'a public image is as fragile as humpty dumpty'
cleanliness;diligence in keeping clean
maneuverability;the quality of being maneuverable
distrust;the trait of not trusting others
rectangularity;the property of being shaped like a rectangle
lonesomeness;a disposition toward being alone
setup;(informal) the way something is organized or arranged. 'it takes time to learn the setup around here'
impoliteness;a discourteous manner that ignores accepted social usage
inefficacy;a lack of efficacy
sottishness;lack of restraint in use of alcohol
putrescence;the quality of rotting and becoming putrid
permutability;ability to change sequence
variedness;characterized by variation
honestness;the quality of being honest
fury;the property of being wild or turbulent. 'the storm's violence'
bachelor of arts in library science;a bachelor's degree in library science
raison d etre;the purpose that justifies a thing's existence
windage;bore-to-projectile difference in diameter
priority;preceding in time
purposelessness;the quality of lacking any definite purpose
arbitrariness;the trait of acting more from whim or caprice than from reason or judgment
dimness;the quality of being dim
daredeviltry;boldness as manifested in rash and daredevil behavior
portability;the quality of being light enough to be carried
talkativeness;the quality of being wordy and talkative
murkiness;the quality of being cloudy
