7;the cardinal number that is the sum of six and one
pa anga;the basic unit of money in tonga
hogshead;a british unit of capacity for alcoholic beverages
trillion;(in britain and germany) the number that is represented as a one followed by 18 zeros. 'in england they call a quintillion a trillion'
arpent;a former french unit of area. equal approximately to an acre
b.th.u.;a unit of heat equal to the amount of heat required to raise one pound of water one degree fahrenheit at one atmosphere pressure. equivalent to 251.997 calories
thirteen;the cardinal number that is the sum of twelve and one
milliard;(british) a billion. 'in england they call one thousand million a milliard'
dinar;the basic unit of money in iraq. equal to 1,000 fils
poundal;a unit of force equal to the force that imparts an acceleration of 1 foot/sec/sec to a mass of 1 pound. equal to 0.1382 newtons
nothing;a quantity of no importance. 'it looked like nothing i had ever seen before'. 'reduced to nil all the work we had done'. 'we racked up a pathetic goose egg'. 'it was all for naught'. 'i didn't hear zilch about it'
boxcars;(usually plural) when two dice are thrown and both come up showing six spots the result is called 'boxcars'
eagle;(in golf) a score of two strokes under par on a golf hole
nibble;a small byte
one sixth;a sixth part
meter;the basic unit of length adopted under the system international d'unites (approximately 1.094 yards)
mile;a large distance. 'he missed by a mile'
augend;a number to which another number (the addend) is added
ampere turn;a unit of magnetomotive force equal to the magnetomotive force produced by the passage of 1 ampere through 1 complete turn of a coil. equal to 1.257 gilberts
homer;an ancient hebrew unit of capacity equal to 10 baths or 10 ephahs
dose;the quantity of an active agent (substance or radiation) taken in or absorbed at any one time
region;the approximate amount of something (usually used prepositionally as in 'in the region of'). 'it was going to take in the region of two or three months to finish the job'. 'the price is in the neighborhood of 100'
pound;the basic unit of money in egypt. equal to 100 piasters
bar;a unit of pressure equal to a million dynes per square centimeter
gram;a metric unit of weight equal to one thousandth of a kilogram
picosecond;one trillionth of a second. one thousandth of a nanosecond
cgs;system of measurement based on centimeters and grams and seconds
nautical mile;a british unit of length equivalent to 1,853.18 meters (6,082 feet)
ci;a unit of radioactivity equal to the amount of a radioactive isotope that decays at the rate of 37,000,000,000 disintegrations per second
international candle;a former international unit of luminous intensity. now replaced by the candela
solar day;time for earth to make a complete rotation on its axis. 'two days later they left'. 'they put on two performances every day'. 'there are 30,000 passangers per day'
sextuplet;the cardinal number that is the sum of five and one
xxviii;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-seven and one
float;a drink with ice cream floating in it
avoirdupois weight;a system of weights based on the 16-ounce pound (or 7,000 grains)
international nautical mile;a unit of length used in navigation. equivalent to the distance spanned by one second of arc in latitude. 1,852 meters
el salvadoran monetary unit;monetary unit in el salvador
abamp;a unit of current equal to 10 amperes
30;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and three
gal;a unit of gravitational acceleration equal to one centimeter per second per second (named after galileo)
1000;the cardinal number that is the product of 10 and 100
capacity measure;a unit of measurement of volume or capacity
chukker;one of the periods into which the game of polo is divided
polish monetary unit;monetary unit in poland
plug;a wad of something chewable as tobacco
coefficient of reflection;the fraction of radiant energy that is reflected from a surface
system of weights;a system of units used to express the weight of something
swallow;a small amount of liquid food: 'a sup of ale'
horsepower;a unit of power equal to 746 watts
kenyan monetary unit;monetary unit in kenya
liberian dollar;the basic unit of money in liberia
peso;the basic unit of money in uruguay. equal to 100 centesimos
turkey drumstick;the lower joint of the leg of a turkey
quarter;a quarter of a hundredweight (25 pounds)
snake eyes;when two dice are thrown and both come up showing one spot the results is called 'craps' or 'snake eyes'
indonesian monetary unit;monetary unit in indonesia
omani monetary unit;monetary unit in oman
kilogram;one thousand grams. the basic unit of mass adopted under the system international d'unites
nigerian monetary unit;monetary unit in nigeria
candlepower unit;a measure of luminous intensity
malawian monetary unit;monetary unit in malawi
load;(informal) an amount of alcohol sufficient to intoxicate. 'he got a load on and started a brawl'
nepalese rupee;the basic unit of money in nepal. equal to 100 paisas
2.718282...;the base of the natural system of logarithms
coefficient of self induction;the ratio of the electromotive force produced in a circuit by self-induction to the rate of change of current producing it, expressed in henries
drachm;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 60 minims or 3.5516 cubic centimeters
trinidad and tobago dollar;the basic unit of money in trinidad and tobago
micron;a metric unit of length equal to one millionth of a meter
fish filet;a longitudinal slice or boned side of a fish
kenyan shilling;the basic unit of money in kenya. equal to 100 cents
parson s nose;the tail of a dressed fowl
shandygaff;a drink made of beer and lemonade
quintillionth;one part in a quintillion
metric weight unit;a decimal unit of weight based on the gram
resistance unit;the reciprocal of conductance
langley;unit of solar radiation
hr;a period of time equal to 1/24th of a day. 'the job will take more than an hour'
couplet;two items of the same kind
lesser;the smaller in amount or degree esp of two alternatives: 'the lesser of the two evils'
quarter;a unit of time equal to 15 minutes or a quarter of an hour. 'it's a quarter til 4'. 'a quarter after 4 o'clock'
day;the time for one complete rotation of the earth relative to a particular star, about 4 minutes shorter than a mean solar day
count;the total number counted: 'a blood count'
nail;a former unit of length for cloth equal to 1/16 of a yard
algerian dinar;the basic unit of money in algeria
norwegian krone;the basic unit of money in norway
linear unit;a unit of measurement of length
pesewa;100 pesewas equal 1 cedi
complement;a complete number or quantity: 'a full complement'
column inch;a unit of measurement for advertising space
barrel;any of various units of capacity. 'a barrel of beer is 31 gallons and a barrel of oil is 42 gallons'
dal;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 10 liters
rad;a unit of absorbed ionizing radiation equal to 100 ergs per gram of irradiated material
toast;a drink in honor of or to the health of a person or event
kip;the basic unit of money in laos
iota;a tiny or scarcely detectable amount
libation;(facetious) a serving of an alcoholic beverage
pipeful;the quantity of tobacco that can be smoked in a pipe at one time
doppelzentner;a unit of weight equal to 100 kilograms
cameroon franc;the basic unit of money in cameroon
one ninth;a ninth part
jiao;10 jiao equal 1 yuan
austrian monetary unit;monetary unit in austria
spoilage;the amount that has spoiled
acre;a unit of area (4840 square yards) used in english-speaking countries
quarter mile;a unit of length equal to a quarter of 1 mile
sao thome e principe monetary unit;monetary unit on sao tome e principe
swedish mile;a swedish unit of length equivalent to 10 km
chicken drumstick;the lower joint of the leg of a chicken
leash;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
pound;16 ounces. 'he tried to lieft 100 pounds'
mile;a unit of length equal to 1760 yards
50;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and five
congo franc;the basic unit of money in the congo
cran;a capacity unit used for measuring fresh herring
xv;the cardinal number that is the sum of fourteen and one
addend;a number that is added to another number
cwt;a united states unit of weight equivalent to 100 pounds
filler;100 filler equal 1 forint
capacity unit;a unit of measurement of volume or capacity
sixteen;the cardinal number that is the sum of fifteen and one
knot;a unit of length used in navigation. equivalent to the distance spanned by one second of arc in latitude. 1,852 meters
ghanian monetary unit;monetary unit of ghana
british pound;the basic unit of money in great britain. equal to 100 pence
crate;the quantity contained in a crate
iranian monetary unit;monetary unit in iran
double bogey;(in golf) a score of two strokes over par for a hole
metric hundredweight;a unit of weight equal to 100 kilograms
g;a unit of force equal to the force exerted by gravity. used to indicate the force to which a body is subjected when it is accelerated
cable;a nautical unit of depth
complex number;a number of the form a+bi where a and b are real numbers and i is the square root of -1
watt hour;a unit of energy equal to the power of one watt operating for one hour
argentine monetary unit;monetary unit in argentina
ha p orth;the amount that can be bought for a halfpenny
match point;the final point needed to win a match (especially in tennis)
real number;any rational or irrational number
avo;100 avos equal 1 pataca
fathom;(mining) a unit of volume (equal to 6 cubic feet) used in measuring bodies of ore
dry unit;a unit of capacity for dry commodities (as fruit or grain)
modulus of elasticity;(physics) the ratio of the applied stress to the change in shape of an elastic body
xiv;the cardinal number that is the sum of thirteen and one
aleph null;the smallest infinite integer
k;the basic unit of thermodynamic temperature adopted under the system international d'unites
drumstick;the lower joint of the leg of a fowl
small fortune;a large sum of money. 'he made a small fortune in the commodities market'
trillion;(in the united states and france) the number that is represented as a one followed by 12 zeros. 'in england they call a trillion a billion'
gallon;united states liquid unit equal to 4 quarts or 3.785 liters
fluid drachm;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 60 minims or 3.5516 cubic centimeters
nina from carolina;the cardinal number that is the sum of eight and one
l;a metric unit of capacity equal to the volume of 1 kilogram of pure water at 4 degrees centigrade and 760 mm of mercury (or approximately 1.76 pints)
kilocalorie;a unit of heat equal to the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water by one degree at one atmosphere pressure
fils;a fractional monetary unit in bahrain and iraq and jordan and kuwait and southern yemen and yemen. equal to one thousandth of a dinar
volume unit;a unit of measurement of volume or capacity
simple fraction;the quotient of two integers
spanish monetary unit;monetary unit in spain
rotl;a unit of weight used in some moslem countries near the mediterranean. varies between one and five pounds
sup;a small amount of liquid food: 'a sup of ale'
cypher;a mathematical element that when added to another number yields the same number
decibel;a logarithmic unit of sound intensity. 10 times the logarithm of the ratio of the sound intensity to some reference intensity
south korean monetary unit;monetary unit in south korea
celsius scale;a system of measuring temperature. 0 is the melting point of ice and 100 is the boiling point of water
pood;a russian unit of weight equal to approximately 36 pounds
whole lot;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
pace;the distance covered by a step. 'he stepped off ten paces from the old tree and began to dig'
troy pound;an apothecary weight equal to 12 ounces or 373.242 grams
malawi kwacha;the basic unit of money in malawi
spillage;the amount that has spilled
quadrillion;(in the united states and france) the number that is represented as a one followed by 15 zeros
dessertspoonful;as much as a dessertspoon will hold
four;the cardinal number that is the sum of three and one
south korean won;the basic unit of money in south korea
teardrop;a drop of the clear salty saline solution secreted by the lacrimal glands. 'his story brought tears to her eyes'
milline;an advertising measure. one agate line appearing in one million copies of a publication
centavo;a fractional monetary unit of several countries: el salvador and sao tome and principe and brazil and argentina and bolivia and colombia and cuba and the dominican republic and ecuador and el salvador and guatemala and honduras and mexico and nicaragua and peru and the philippines and portugal
aurar;100 aurar equal 1 krona
soupcon;a small but appreciable amount. 'this dish could use a touch of garlic'
dinar;the basic unit of money in yemen. equal to 100 fils
roman pace;an ancient roman unit of length (4.85 english feet) measured as the distance from the heel of one foot to the heel of the same foot when next it touches the ground
at;100 at equal 1 kip
seven;the cardinal number that is the sum of six and one
reflectance;the fraction of radiant energy that is reflected from a surface
kv;a unit of potential equal to a thousand volts
billion;(in britain) the number that is represented as a one followed by 12 zeros
mozambique monetary unit;monetary unit in mozambique
malted;a milkshake made with malt powder
trillionth;one part in a trillion
mol;the molecular weight of a substance expressed in grams. the basic unit of amount of substance adopted under the system international d'unites
mauritian rupee;the basic unit of money in mauritius. equal to 100 cents
satang;100 satangs equal 1 baht
reciprocal ohm;a unit of conductance equal to the reciprocal of an ohm
philippine monetary unit;monetary unit in the philippines
deal;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
flock;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
cypriot monetary unit;monetary unit in cyprus
peseta;the basic unit of money in spain. equal to 100 centimos
costa rican colon;the basic unit of money in costa rica. equal to 100 centimos
scoop;the quantity a scoop will hold
liter;a metric unit of capacity equal to the volume of 1 kilogram of pure water at 4 degrees centigrade and 760 mm of mercury (or approximately 1.76 pints)
millionth;one part in a million
last half;the second of two halves of play
overexposure;exposure to too much light or for too long a time
cartonful;the quantity contained in a carton
standard;a board measure = 1980 board feet
suggestion;a just detectable amount. 'he speaks french with a trace of an accent'
lineage;the number of lines in a piece of printed material
obolus;a greek unit of weight equal to one tenth of a gram
kuwaiti dinar;the basic unit of money in kuwait. equal 1,000 fils
decagram;10 grams
time unit;a unit for measuring time periods
ounce;16 drams
record;the number of wins versus losses and ties a team has had. 'at 9-0 they have the best record in their league'
supply;an amount of something available for use
little phoebe;the cardinal number that is the sum of four and one
loading;a quantity that can be processed or transported at one time. 'the system broke down under excessive loads'
bhutanese monetary unit;monetary unit in bhutan
volt;a unit of potential equal to the potential difference between two points on a conductor carrying a current of 1 ampere when the power dissipated between the two points is 1 watt. equivalent to the potential difference across a resistance of 1 ohm when 1 ampere of current flows through it
12;the cardinal number that is the sum of eleven and onethe cardinal number that is the sum of eleven and one
thousand;the cardinal number that is the product of 10 and 100
tuvalu dollar;the basic unit of money in tuvalu
recurring decimal;a decimal with a sequence of digits that repeats itself indefinitely
frail;the weight of a frail (basket) full of raisins or figs. between 50 and 75 pounds
fingerbreadth;the length of breadth of a finger used as a linear measure
common denominator;an integer that is a common multiple of the denominators of two or more fractions
femtosecond;one quadrillionth of a second. one thousandth of a nanosecond
partition;(computer science) the part of a hard disk that is dedicated to a particular operating system or application and accessed as a single unit
10;the cardinal number that is the sum of nine and one. the base of the decimal system
systeme international d unites;a complete metric system of units of measurement for scientists. fundamental quantities are length (meter) and mass (kilogram) and time (second) and electric current (ampere) and temperature (kelvin) and amount of matter (mole) and luminous intensity (candela)
sixth;a sixth part
spray;a quantity of small objects flying through the air. 'a spray of bullets'
dirham;the basic unit of money in the united arab emirates. equal to 1,000 fils
gigabyte;a unit of information equal to one billion (1,000,000,000) bytes or one thousand megabytes
nybble;a small byte
serving;an individual portion of food or drink: 'the helpings were all small'. 'his portion was larger than hers'. 'there's enough for two servings each'
dominican peso;the basic unit of money in the dominican republic. equal to 100 centavos
period;one of three periods of play in hockey games
footer;(used only in combinations) the height or length of something in feet. 'he is a six-footer' or 'the golfer sank a 40-footer' or 'his yacht is a 60-footer'
billions;a very large indefinite number (usually hyperbole)
fluid dram;a unit of capacity or volume in the apothecary system equal to one eighth of a fluid ounce
metre;the basic unit of length adopted under the system international d'unites (approximately 1.094 yards)
transmittance;the fraction of radiant energy that passes through a substance
grosz;100 groszy equal 1 zloty
mexican monetary unit;monetary unit in mexico
slew;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
heaps;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
basketball score;the score in a basketball game
span;two items of the same kind
sundowner;(brit) a drink taken at sundown
multiplicand;the number that is multiplied by the multiplier
xxi;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty and one
krone;the basic unit of money in norway
penni;100 penni equal 1 markka
db;a logarithmic unit of sound intensity. 10 times the logarithm of the ratio of the sound intensity to some reference intensity
krona;the basic unit of money in sweden
caseful;the quantity contained in a case
constant;a number representing a quantity assumed to have a fixed value in a specified mathematical context. 'the velocity of light is a constant'
centigrade scale;a system of measuring temperature. 0 is the melting point of ice and 100 is the boiling point of water
rupee;the basic unit of money in pakistan. equal to 100 paisas
prime quantity;a quantity that has no factor but itself and 1
bulk modulus;the ratio of the change in pressure acting on a volume to the fractional change in volume
iranian dinar;100 dinars equal 1 rial
abohm;a unit of resistance equal to a billionth of an ohm
beaufort scale;a scale from 0 to 12 for the force of the wind
r;a unit of radiation exposure. the dose of ionizing radiation that will produce 1 electrostatic unit of electricity in 1 cc of dry air
hectolitre;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 100 liters
linear measure;a measure of length
shoeful;the amount that a shoe will hold. 'he emptied out a shoeful of water'
british thermal unit;a unit of heat equal to the amount of heat required to raise one pound of water one degree fahrenheit at one atmosphere pressure. equivalent to 251.997 calories
pint;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 4 gills or 568.26 cubic centimeters
breadcrumb;crumb of bread. used especially for coating or thickening
glassful;the quantity a glass will hold
cubature unit;a unit of measurement of volume or capacity
heptad;the cardinal number that is the sum of six and one
unformatted capacity;(computer science) the total number of bytes on a disk including the space that will be required to format it
second period;the second period of play in a game
oyster;a small muscle on each side of the back of a fowl
conto;1 conto equals 1,000 escudos
day;time for earth to make a complete rotation on its axis. 'two days later they left'. 'they put on two performances every day'. 'there are 30,000 passangers per day'
fluid ounce;a united states unit of capacity or volume equal to 1.804 cubic inches
gulden;the basic unit of money in the netherlands. equal to 100 cents
flask;the quantity a flask will hold
pope s nose;the tail of a dressed fowl
milliampere;one thousandth of an ampere
btu;a unit of heat equal to the amount of heat required to raise one pound of water one degree fahrenheit at one atmosphere pressure. equivalent to 251.997 calories
million;the number that is represented as a one followed by 6 zeros
nut;half the width of an em
dm;a metric unit of length equal to one tenth of a meter
nanometre;a metric unit of length equal to one billionth of a meter
brace;two items of the same kind
mediety;one of two (approximately) equal parts
6;the cardinal number that is the sum of five and one
burundi franc;the basic unit of money in burundi
riyal;the basic unit of money in saudi arabia
iii;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
g;a metric unit of weight equal to one thousandth of a kilogram
root;a number that when multiplied by itself some number of times equals a given number
half a dozen;the cardinal number that is the sum of five and one
tunisian dirham;100 dirhams equal 1 dinar
intercept;the value at which a line intersects a coordinate axis
litre;a metric unit of capacity equal to the volume of 1 kilogram of pure water at 4 degrees centigrade and 760 mm of mercury (or approximately 1.76 pints)
tanzanian monetary unit;monetary unit in tanzania
fourscore;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and eight
dinar;the basic unit of money in yugoslavia
lira;the basic unit of money in turkey
trinity;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
bolivian monetary unit;monetary unit in bolivia
mflops;(computer science) a unit for measuring computing power
gravitational constant;(physics) the universal constant relating force to mass and distance in newton's law of gravitation
trillions;a very large indefinite number (usually hyperbole)
dish;the quantity that a dish will hold. 'they served me a dish of rice'
indian rupee;the basic unit of money in india. equal to 100 paise
sextet;the cardinal number that is the sum of five and one
scattering;a small number dispersed haphazardly: 'the first scatterings of green'
milliradian;a unit of angular distance equal to one thousandth of a radian
natal day;the date on which a person was born
a;a metric unit of length equal to one ten billionth of a meter (or 0.0001 micron). used to specify wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation
15 minutes;a quarter of an hour
shelfful;the amount that a shelf will hold. 'he bought a shelfful of books'
fifth part;a fifth part
surinamese monetary unit;monetary unit in suriname
little joe;the cardinal number that is the sum of three and one
mutton;the square of a body of any size of type
final period;the last period of play in a game
all get out;an unimaginably large amount. british say 'it rained like billyo' where americans say 'it rained like all get out'
catty;any of various units of weight used in se asia (especially a chinese measure equal to 500 grams)
h.p.;a unit of power equal to 746 watts
tittle;a tiny or scarcely detectable amount
swedish monetary unit;monetary unit in sweden
romanian monetary unit;monetary unit in romania
vietnamese monetary unit;monetary unit in vietnam
number;the first element in a countable series. 'the first of the month'
microsecond;one millionth of a second. one thousandth of a millisecond
pressure unit;a unit measuring force per unit area
sack;the quantity contained in a sack
twenty four hours;time for earth to make a complete rotation on its axis. 'two days later they left'. 'they put on two performances every day'. 'there are 30,000 passangers per day'
libyan dinar;the basic unit of money in libya
madagascar franc;the basic unit of money in madagascar
quintillion;(in the united states and france) the number that is represented as a one followed by 18 zeros
right angle;a quarter of the circumference of a circle
proper fraction;a fraction with a numerator smaller than the denominator
nanosecond;one billionth of a second. one thousandth of a microsecond
lots;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
penn orth;the amount that can be bought for a penny
improper fraction;a fraction whose numerator is larger than the denominator
no.;the number designating place in an ordered sequence
twosome;two items of the same kind
splatter;a small quantity of something moist or soft. 'a dab of paint'. 'a splatter of mud'
square yard;a unit of area equal to one yard by one yard square
picul;a unit of weight used in some parts of asia. approximately equal to 133 pounds (the load a grown man can carry)
deutschmark;the basic unit of money in germany
abscissa;the value of a coordinate on the x-axis
handful;a small number or amount. 'only a handful of responses were received'
power unit;a measure of electric power
bermuda dollar;the basic unit of money in bermuda
board measure;a system of units for measuring lumber based on the board_foot
qatari monetary unit;monetary unit in qatar
russian monetary unit;monetary unit in russia
complex quantity;a number of the form a+bi where a and b are real numbers and i is the square root of -1
solar month;one-twelfth of a solar or tropical year
twenty two;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-one and one
cwt;a british unit of weight equivalent to 112 pounds
stirrup cup;a farewell drink (especially one offered to a horseman ready to depart). usually alcoholic
deflator;a statistical factor designed to remove the effect of inflation. inflation adjusted variables are in constant dollars
spoonful;as much as a spoon will hold. 'he added two spoons of sugar'
period of play;(in games or plays or other performances) the time during which play proceeds. 'rain stopped play in the 4th inning'
modulus;(physics) a coefficient that expresses how much of a specified property is possessed by a specified substance
natural number;the number 1 and any other number obtained by adding 1 to it repeatedly
first period;the first period of play in a game
shilling;the basic unit of money in uganda. equal to 100 cents
net ton;a united states unit of weight equivalent to 2000 pounds
limitation;the greatest amount of something that is possible or allowed. 'there are limits on the amount you can bet'. 'it is growing rapidly with no limitation in sight'
vara;a spanish unit of length (about a yard) having different values in different localities
ennead;the cardinal number that is the sum of eight and one
skepful;the quantity a skep can hold
guilder;the basic unit of money in suriname. equal to 100 cents
nihil;nothing (as used by a sheriff after an unsuccessful effort to serve a writ: 'nihil habet')
nought;a mathematical element that when added to another number yields the same number
kilowatt hour;a unit of energy equal to the work done by a power of 1000 watts operating for one hour
spadeful;the quantity a shovel can hold
gill;a united states liquid unit equal to 4 fluid ounces
point;the unit of counting in scoring a game or contest. 'he scored 20 points in the first half'. 'a touchdown counts 6 points'
unit of measurement;any division of quantity accepted as a standard of measurement or exchange. 'the dollar is the united states unit of currency'. 'a unit of wheat is a bushel'. 'change per unit volume'
great gross;a cardinal number equal to one dozen gross
cl;a metric unit of volume equal to one hundredth of a liter
fuck all;(british slang) little or nothing at all. 'i asked for a raise and they gave me bugger-all'
mass unit;a unit of measurement for mass
proof;a measure of alcoholic strength expressed as an integer twice the percentage of alcohol present (by volume)
continued fraction;a fraction whose numerator is an integer and whose denominator is an integer plus a fraction whose numerator is an integer and whose denominator is an integer plus a fraction and so on
cardinal;the number of elements in a mathematical set
modulus;an integer that can be divided without remainder into the difference between two other integers. '2 is a modulus of 5 and 9'
eggshake;a milkshake with egg in it
torr;a unit of pressure equal to 0.001316 atmosphere. named after torricelli
senegalese franc;the basic unit of money in senegal
naut mi;a british unit of length equivalent to 1,853.18 meters (6,082 feet)
peso;the basic unit of money in colombia. equal to 100 centavos
crumb;small piece of e.g. bread or cake
peso;the basic unit of money in the philippines. equal to 100 centavos
eleven;the cardinal number that is the sum of ten and one
perch;a square rod of land
hectogram;100 grams
1000000000;(in the united states) the number that is represented as a one followed by 9 zeros
iranian rial;the basic unit of money in iran
dividend;a number to be divided by another number
kilolitre;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 1000 liters
quartet;the cardinal number that is the sum of three and one
fourth power;an algebraic equation of the fourth degree
fistful;the quantity that can be held in the hand
span;a unit of length based on the width of the expanded human hand (usually taken as 9 inches)
pdl;a unit of force equal to the force that imparts an acceleration of 1 foot/sec/sec to a mass of 1 pound. equal to 0.1382 newtons
syllabub;spiced hot milk with rum or wine
lwei;100 lwei equal 1 kwanza
capacitance unit;a measure of the capacity of a circuit component to store charge
ordinal number;the number designating place in an ordered sequence
octonary;the cardinal number that is the sum of seven and one
sestet;the cardinal number that is the sum of five and one
peak;the most extreme possible amount or value. 'voltage peak'
whisky neat;whiskey without a mixer
abampere;a unit of current equal to 10 amperes
plate;the quantity contained in a plate
temperature unit;a unit of measurement for temperature
handsbreadth;any unit of length based on the breadth of the human hand
barrels;the amount that many barrels might hold
teaspoonful;as much as a teaspoon will hold
boxful;the quantity contained in a box. 'he gave her a box of chocolates'
libation;a serving (of wine) poured out in honor of a deity
multitude;a large indefinite number. 'a battalion of ants'. 'a multitude of tv antennas'
quintal;a unit of weight equal to 100 kilograms
ugandan shilling;the basic unit of money in uganda. equal to 100 cents
newton;a unit of force equal to the force that imparts an acceleration of 1 m/sec/sec to a mass of 1 kilogram. equal to 100,000 dynes
cape verde monetary unit;monetary unit on cape verde
c;ten 10s
square foot;a unit of area equal to one foot by one foot square
three;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
heap;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
breast;meat carved from the breast of a fowl
kor;an ancient hebrew unit of capacity equal to 10 baths or 10 ephahs
frame;a period of play in baseball during which each team has a turn at bat
pint;a united states dry unit equal to 0.5 quart or 33.6 cubic inches
eighter from decatur;the cardinal number that is the sum of seven and one
kina;the basic unit of money in papua new guinea
gill;a british imperial capacity unit (liquid or dry) equal to 5 fluid ounces or 142.066 cubic centimeters
dry measure;a unit of capacity for dry commodities (as fruit or grain)
ngwee;100 ngwee equal 1 kwacha
electron volt;a unit of energy equal to the work done by an electron accelerated through a potential difference of 1 volt
xxiii;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-two and one
kopeck;100 kopecks equal 1 ruble
fiji dollar;the basic unit of money in fiji
compound number;a quantity expressed in two different units. 'one hour and ten minutes'
troy ounce;a unit of apothecary weight equal to 480 grains or one twelfth of a pound
siemens;a unit of conductance equal to the reciprocal of an ohm
fifty percent;a half expressed as a percentage
bugger all;(british slang) little or nothing at all. 'i asked for a raise and they gave me bugger-all'
quartic;an algebraic equation of the fourth degree
duo;two items of the same kind
dosage;the quantity of an active agent (substance or radiation) taken in or absorbed at any one time
ephemeris time;(astronomy) a measure of time defined by earth's orbital motion. terrestrial time is mean solar time corrected for the irregularities of the earth's motions
mm hg;a unit of pressure equal to 0.001316 atmosphere. named after torricelli
zillions;a very large indefinite number (usually hyperbole)
scads;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
dol;a unit of pain intensity
shot;a small drink of liquor. 'he poured a shot of whiskey'
dollop;a small measure (usually of food)
nepalese monetary unit;monetary unit in nepal
shekel;the basic unit of money in israel
mil;a metric unit of volume equal to one thousandth of a liter
outage;the amount of something (as whiskey or oil) lost in storage or transportation
teacup;as much as a teacup will hold
rafts;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
lm;a unit of luminous flux equal to the amount of light given out through a solid angle of 1 steradian by a point source of 1 candela intensity radiating uniformly in all directions
zilch;a quantity of no importance. 'it looked like nothing i had ever seen before'. 'reduced to nil all the work we had done'. 'we racked up a pathetic goose egg'. 'it was all for naught'. 'i didn't hear zilch about it'
stotinka;100 stotikni equal 1 lev
ordinal;the number designating place in an ordered sequence
calory;unit of heat defined as the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 gram of water by 1c at atmospheric pressure
ternary;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
french franc;the basic unit of money in france
ninth;a ninth part
sente;100 lisente equal 1 loti
belgian franc;the basic unit of money in belgium
19;the cardinal number that is the sum of eighteen and one
ton;a british unit of weight equivalent to 2240 pounds
en;half the width of an em
hm;a metric unit of length equal to 100 meters
armful;the quantity that can be contained in the arms
libyan monetary unit;monetary unit in libya
philippine peso;the basic unit of money in the philippines. equal to 100 centavos
quart;a united states liquid unit equal to 32 fluid ounces. four quarts equal one gallon
joule;a unit of electrical energy equal to the work done when a current of one ampere passes through a resistance of one ohm for one second
won;the basic unit of money in north korea
kuwaiti monetary unit;monetary unit in kuwait
plurality;(in an election with more than 2 options) the number of votes for the candidate or party receiving the greatest number (but less that half of the votes)
pica;a linear unit (1/6 inch) used in printing
one thousand thousand;the number that is represented as a one followed by 6 zeros
sidereal day;the time for one complete rotation of the earth relative to a particular star, about 4 minutes shorter than a mean solar day
welterweight;a weight of 28 pounds. sometimes imposed as a handicap in a horse race (such as a steeple chase or hurdle race)
pace;a unit of length equal to 3 feet. defined as 91.44 centimeters. originally taken to be the average length of a stride
absolute value;a numerical value regardless of its sign
candle;the basic unit of luminous intensity adopted under the system international d'unites. equal to 1/60 of the luminous intensity per square centimeter of a blackbody radiating at the temperature of 2,046 degrees kelvin
digit;the length of breadth of a finger used as a linear measure
minim;a united states liquid unit equal to 1/60 fluidram
foot;a linear unit of length equal to 12 inches or a third of a yard. 'he is six feet tall'
eighteen;the cardinal number that is the sum of seventeen and one
par;(in golf) the standard number of strokes set for each hole on a golf course, or for the entire course. 'a par-5 hole'. 'par for this course is 72'
rand;the basic unit of money in south africa. equal to 100 cents
cable s length;a nautical unit of depth
mi;a unit of length equal to 1760 yards
pagination;the system of numbering pages
indian monetary unit;monetary unit in india
kiloliter;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 1000 liters
sone;a unit of perceived loudness equal to the loudness of a 1000-hertz tone at 40 db above threshold
daraf;a unit of elastance equal to the reciprocal of a farad
one seventh;a seventh part
binful;the quantity contained in a bin
increase;a quantity that is added. 'there was an addition to property taxes this year'. 'they recorded the cattle's gain in weight over a period of weeks'
one tenth;a tenth part
date;a particular day specified as the time something will happen. 'the date of the election is set by law'
divisor;one of two or more integers that can be exactly divided into another integer. 'what are the 4 factors of 6?'
deuce;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one or a numeral representing this numberthe cardinal number that is the sum of one and one or a numeral representing this number
fluidram;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 60 minims or 3.5516 cubic centimeters
butat;100 bututs equal 1 dalasi
case;the quantity contained in a case
western samoan monetary unit;monetary unit in western samoa
first half;the first of two halves of play
fen;100 fen equal 1 yuan
new zealand dollar;the basic unit of money in new zealand
ngultrum;the basic unit of money in bhutan
nucleon number;the sum of the number of neutrons and protons in an atomic nucleus
quaternion;the cardinal number that is the sum of three and one
gross ton;a british unit of weight equivalent to 2240 pounds
klick;a metric unit of length equal to 1000 meters (or 0.621371 miles)
thimbleful;as much as a thimble will hold
haitian monetary unit;the monetary unit in haiti
mug;the quantity that can be held in a mug
mite;a small but appreciable amount. 'this dish could use a touch of garlic'
quadrant;a quarter of the circumference of a circle
united states dry unit;a unit of measurement of capacity for dry substances officially adopted in the united states customary system
pledge;a drink in honor of or to the health of a person or event
headspace;the volume left at the top of a filled container (bottle or jar or tin) before sealing
sprinkling;a small number dispersed haphazardly: 'the first scatterings of green'
square metre;a centare is 1/100th of an are
nip;a small drink of liquor. 'he poured a shot of whiskey'
penny;a fractional monetary unit of ireland and the united kingdom. equal to one hundredth of a pound
folio;the system of numbering pages
d day;day of the allied landing in france, world war ii
duad;two items of the same kind
syrian pound;the basic unit of money in syria. equal to 100 piasters
piaster;100 kurus equal 1 lira
one million million million;(in britain and germany) the number that is represented as a one followed by 18 zeros. 'in england they call a quintillion a trillion'
in;a unit of length (in united states and britain) equal to one twelfth of a foot
rutherford;a unit strength of a radioactive source equal to one million disintegrations per second
apothecaries;any weight unit used in pharmacy. an ounce is equal to 480 grains and a pound is equal to 12 ounces
1000000000000;(in the united states and france) the number that is represented as a one followed by 12 zeros. 'in england they call a trillion a billion'
split;a bottle containing half the usual amount
b;a logarithmic unit of sound intensity equal to 10 decibels
pound sterling;the basic unit of money in great britain. equal to 100 pence
taste;a small amount eaten or drunk. 'take a taste--you'll like it'
1;the smallest whole number or a numeral representing this number. 'he has the one but will need a two and three to go with it'. 'they had lunch at one'the smallest whole number or a numeral representing this number. 'he has the one but will need a two and three to go with it'. 'they had lunch at one'
tongan monetary unit;monetary unit in tonga
last;a unit of weight equal to 4,000 pounds
zero;a quantity of no importance. 'it looked like nothing i had ever seen before'. 'reduced to nil all the work we had done'. 'we racked up a pathetic goose egg'. 'it was all for naught'. 'i didn't hear zilch about it'
pile;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
stone;(british) an avoirdupois unit used to measure the weight of a human body. equal to 14 pounds
millisecond;one thousandth of a second
houseful;as many as a house will accommodate. 'they entertained a houseful of guests'
sr;the unit of solid angle adopted under the system international d'unites
farad;the capacitance of a capacitor that has an equal and opposite charge of 1 coulomb on each plate and a voltage difference of 1 volt between the plates
posset;sweet spiced hot milk curdled with ale or beer
one quadrillionth;one part in a quadrillion
shovelful;the quantity a shovel can hold
emu;any of various systems of units for measuring electricity and magnetism
moon;the period between successive new moons (29.531 days)
pataca;the basic unit of money in macao
imaginary number;a number of the form a+bi where a and b are real numbers and i is the square root of -1
factor;any of the numbers (or symbols) that form a product when multiplied together
mil;an angular unit used in artillery. equal to 1/6400 of a complete revolution
millihenry;a unit of inductance equal to one thousandth of a henry
mean solar time;(astronomy) time based on the motion of the mean sun (an imaginary sun moving uniformly along the celestial equator)
picometer;a metric unit of length equal to one trillionth of a meter
lot;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
ten;the cardinal number that is the sum of nine and one. the base of the decimal system
line;space for one line of print (one column wide and 1/14 inch deep) used to measure advertising
third;one of three equal parts of a divisible whole. 'it contains approximately a third of the minimum daily requirement'
set point;the final point needed to win a set in tennis
dishful;the quantity that a dish will hold. 'they served me a dish of rice'
femtometer;a metric unit of length equal to one quadrillionth of a meter
first;the first element in a countable series. 'the first of the month'
helping;an individual portion of food or drink: 'the helpings were all small'. 'his portion was larger than hers'. 'there's enough for two servings each'
ampere second;a unit of electrical charge equal to the amount of charge transferred by a current of 1 ampere in 1 second
transcendental number;an irrational number that is not algebraic
inti;the basic unit of money in peru
repeating decimal;a decimal with a sequence of digits that repeats itself indefinitely
long ton;a british unit of weight equivalent to 2240 pounds
ogdoad;the cardinal number that is the sum of seven and one
decimetre;a metric unit of length equal to one tenth of a meter
baseball score;the score of a baseball game
mass number;the sum of the number of neutrons and protons in an atomic nucleus
avoirdupois;a system of weights based on the 16-ounce pound (or 7,000 grains)
kb;1024 bytes of information
denominator;the divisor of a fractionreturns the denominator of the canonical reduced form of rational.
mugful;the quantity that can be held in a mug
byte;a sequence of 8 bits (enough to represent one character of alphanumeric data) processed as a single unit of informationconstructs and returns a byte specifier from size and position.
scruple;a unit of apothecary weight equal to 20 grains
goose egg;a quantity of no importance. 'it looked like nothing i had ever seen before'. 'reduced to nil all the work we had done'. 'we racked up a pathetic goose egg'. 'it was all for naught'. 'i didn't hear zilch about it'
twenty percent;a fifth part
trainload;quantity that can be carried by a train
piaster;a fractional monetary unit in egypt and lebanon and sudan and syria
bahamian dollar;the basic unit of money in the bahamas
millidegree;a unit of temperature equal to one-thousandth of a degree
5;the cardinal number that is the sum of four and one
pound;the basic unit of money in great britain. equal to 100 pence
upper limit;the largest possible quantity
cable length;a nautical unit of depth
grad;one-hundredth of a right angle
teaspoon;as much as a teaspoon will hold
common divisor;an integer that divides two other integers
spark;a small but noticeable trace of some quality that might become stronger. 'a spark of interest'. 'a spark of decency'
xxv;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-four and one
trey;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
twain;two items of the same kind
yugoslavian dinar;the basic unit of money in yugoslavia
ampere;the basic unit of electric current adopted under the system international d'unites. 'a typical household circuit carries 15 to 50 amps'
jot;a small but appreciable amount. 'this dish could use a touch of garlic'
decimeter;a metric unit of length equal to one tenth of a meter
baker s dozen;the cardinal number that is the sum of twelve and one
parity bit;(computer science) an error detection procedure in which a bit (0 or 1) added to each group of bits so that it will have either an odd number of 1's or an even number of 1's. e.g., if the parity is odd then any group of bits that arrives with an even number of 1's must contain an error
thou;the cardinal number that is the product of 10 and 100
bit;(british) a small quantity. 'a spot of tea'. 'a bit of paper'
dessiatine;a former russian unit of area equal to 2.7 acres
international ampere;a former unit of electric current (slightly smaller than the si ampere)
german monetary unit;monetary unit in germany
billy ho;an unimaginably large amount. british say 'it rained like billyo' where americans say 'it rained like all get out'
bowling score;the score in a bowling match
inch;a unit of length (in united states and britain) equal to one twelfth of a foot
abfarad;a capacitance unit equal to one billion farads
few;an indefinite but relatively small number. 'they bought a case of beer and drank a few'
yard;the cardinal number that is the product of 10 and 100
handful;the quantity that can be held in the hand
weight;(statistics) a coefficient assigned to elements of a frequency distribution in order to represent their relative importance
fixed point part;the positive fractional part of the representation of a logarithm. in the expression log 643 = 2.808 the mantissa is .808
agora;100 agorot equal 1 shekel
square measure;a system of units used to measure areas
li;chinese distance measure. approximately 0.5 kilometers
somalian monetary unit;monetary unit in somalia
billionth;one part in a billion
fifteen;the cardinal number that is the sum of fourteen and one
kiribati dollar;the basic unit of money in kiribati
united arab emirate dirham;the basic unit of money in the united arab emirates. equal to 1,000 fils
magic number;the atomic number of an extra stable strongly bound atomic nucleus: 2, 8, 20, 28, 50, 82 or 126
pi;the ratio of the circumference to the diameter of a circle
maltese lira;the basic unit of money on malta. equal to 100 cents
femtometre;a metric unit of length equal to one quadrillionth of a meter
t;a unit of information equal to one trillion (1,000,000,000,000) bytes
rain date;an alternative date set for some outdoor event in case it rains on the appointed date. 'the rain date for the picnic will be the following sunday'
dab;a small quantity of something moist or soft. 'a dab of paint'. 'a splatter of mud'
pound;an apothecary weight equal to 12 ounces or 373.242 grams
20;the cardinal number that is the sum of nineteen and one
barbados dollar;the basic unit of money in barbados
naut mi;a unit of length used in navigation. equivalent to the distance spanned by one second of arc in latitude. 1,852 meters
100;ten 10s
dustpan;the quantity that a dustpan will hold
epkwele;the basic unit of money in equatorial guinea
fthm;a linear unit of measurement (equal to 6 feet) for water depth
picking;the quantity of a crop that is harvested. 'he sent the first picking of berries to the market'. 'it was the biggest peach pick in years'
wads;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
spraying;a quantity of small objects flying through the air. 'a spray of bullets'
rational number;an integer or a fraction
fivesome;the cardinal number that is the sum of four and one
escudo;the basic monetary unit of portugal. equal to 100 centavo
stride;the distance covered by a step. 'he stepped off ten paces from the old tree and began to dig'
work unit;a unit of measurement for work
foot pound;a unit of work equal to a force of one pound moving through a distance of one foot
area unit;a system of units used to measure areas
f;a degree on the fahrenheit scale of temperature
furlong;a unit of length equal to 220 yards
xc;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and nine
southern yemeni dinar;the basic unit of money in southern yemen
ix;the cardinal number that is the sum of eight and one
k;1024 bytes of information
set;a unit of play in tennis or squash. 'they played two sets of tennis after dinner'
ocean;anything apparently limitless in quantity or volume
square;the product of two equal terms. 'nine is the second power of three'. 'gravity is inversely proportional to the square of the distance'
prime factor;the prime factors of a quantity are all of the prime quantities that will exactly divide the given quantity
g;the cardinal number that is the product of 10 and 100
psi;a unit of pressure
millimeter;a metric unit of length equal to one thousandth of a meter
naira;the basic unit of money in nigeria
cicero;a linear unit of the size of type slightly larger than an em
quite a little;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
whit;a tiny or scarcely detectable amount
lempira;the basic unit of money in honduras. equal to 100 centavos
top of the inning;the first half of an inning. while the visiting team is at bat. 'a relief pitcher took over in the top of the fifth'
speck;a small but appreciable amount. 'this dish could use a touch of garlic'
rod;a square rod of land
billyo;an unimaginably large amount. british say 'it rained like billyo' where americans say 'it rained like all get out'
duet;two items of the same kind
xvi;the cardinal number that is the sum of fifteen and one
finger;the length of breadth of a finger used as a linear measure
zairese monetary unit;monetary unit in zaire
kw;a unit of power equal to 1000 watts
good deal;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
teacupful;as much as a teacup will hold
kilderkin;an obsolete british unit of capacity equal to 18 imperial gallons
ship s bell;(nautical) each of the eight half-hour units of nautical time signaled by strokes of a ship's bell. eight bells signals 4:00, 8:00, or 12:00 o'clock, either a.m. or p.m.
vi;the cardinal number that is the sum of five and one
danish krone;the basic unit of money in denmark
half;one of two equal parts of a divisible whole. 'half a loaf' or 'half an hour' or 'a century and one half'
florin;the basic unit of money in suriname. equal to 100 cents
nineteen;the cardinal number that is the sum of eighteen and one
djibouti franc;the basic unit of money in djibouti
maximum;the largest possible quantity
piastre;a fractional monetary unit in egypt and lebanon and sudan and syria
quarter;one of four periods of play into which some games are divided. 'both teams scored in the first quarter'
centred;ten 10s
mym;a metric unit of length equal to 10,000 meters
dinar;the basic unit of money in bahrain. equal to 1,000 fils
yesterday;the day immediately before today. 'it was in yesterday's newspapers'
piles;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
twenty;the cardinal number that is the sum of nineteen and one
pennyworth;the amount that can be bought for a penny
hectometre;a metric unit of length equal to 100 meters
quintuplet;the cardinal number that is the sum of four and one
baud;(computer science) a data transmission rate (bits/second) for modems
xx;the cardinal number that is the sum of nineteen and one
saudi arabian riyal;the basic unit of money in saudi arabia
fifth;a quantity of liquor equal to one fifth of a united states gallon
ft l;a former luminance unit equal to one lumen per square foot
gm;a metric unit of weight equal to one thousandth of a kilogram
quintal;a united states unit of weight equivalent to 100 pounds
lira;the basic unit of money in italy. equal to 100 centesimi
hundred;ten 10s
fermi;a metric unit of length equal to one quadrillionth of a meter
sise;the cardinal number that is the sum of five and one
nanometer;a metric unit of length equal to one billionth of a meter
dekalitre;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 10 liters
100000;the cardinal number that is the fifth power of ten
thebe;100 thebe equal 1 pula
piastre;100 kurus equal 1 lira
time scale factor;(in simulation) the ratio of the simulation time to the time of the real process
rupee;the basic unit of money in seychelles. equal to 100 cents
solubility;the quantity of a particular substance that can dissolve in a particular solvent (yielding a saturated solution)
markka;the basic unit of money in finland
lebanese pound;the basic unit of money in lebanon. equal to 100 piasters
peso;the basic unit of money in chile. equal to 100 centesimos
gal;united states liquid unit equal to 4 quarts or 3.785 liters
foursome;the cardinal number that is the sum of three and one
common measure;an integer that divides two other integers
gee;a unit of force equal to the force exerted by gravity. used to indicate the force to which a body is subjected when it is accelerated
degree celsius;a degree on the centigrade scale of temperature
top;the first half of an inning. while the visiting team is at bat. 'a relief pitcher took over in the top of the fifth'
sackful;the quantity contained in a sack
s;1/60 of a minute. the basic unit of time adopted under the system international d'unites
algebraic number;root of an algebraic equation with rational coefficients
nil;a quantity of no importance. 'it looked like nothing i had ever seen before'. 'reduced to nil all the work we had done'. 'we racked up a pathetic goose egg'. 'it was all for naught'. 'i didn't hear zilch about it'
volt ampere;a unit of electrical power in an ac circuit equal to the power dissipated when 1 volt produces a current of 1 ampere
coordinate;a number that identifies a position relative to an axis
point;a linear unit used to measure the size of type. approximately 1/72 inch
dram;a unit of apothecary weight equal to an eighth of an ounce or to 60 grains
poise;a cgs unit of dynamic viscosity equal to one dyne-second per square centimeter. the viscosity of a fluid in which a force of one dyne per square centimeter maintains a velocity of 1 centimeter per second
dekaliter;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 10 liters
mut;the square of a body of any size of type
dam;a metric unit of length equal to ten meters
tetrad;the cardinal number that is the sum of three and one
acre inch;one twelfth of an acre-foot
sucre;the basic unit of money in ecuador. equal to 100 centavos
wad;a wad of something chewable as tobacco
papuan monetary unit;monetary unit in papua new guinea
40;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and four
440 yards;a unit of length equal to a quarter of 1 mile
gross;twelve dozen
ice cream float;a drink with ice cream floating in it
arroba;a unit of weight used in some spanish speaking countries
m;the cardinal number that is the product of 10 and 100
century;ten 10s
el salvadoran colon;the basic unit of money in el salvador. equal to 100 centavos
one trillionth;one part in a trillion
one percent;on part in a hundred
dirham;worth one tenth of a kuwaiti dinar. equal 100 fils
absorption unit;a unit for measuring absorption
link;a unit of length equal to 1/100 of a chain
dustpanful;the quantity that a dustpan will hold
sop;piece of solid food for dipping in a liquid
meg;the number that is represented as a one followed by 6 zeros
system of measurement;a system of related measures
octal digit;a digit from 0 to 7 in octal notation
much;a great amount or extent. 'they did much for humanity'
myriad;a large indefinite number. 'he faced a myriad of details'
tael;a unit of weight used in east asia approximately equal to 1.3 ounces
maltese monetary unit;monetary unit on malta
tt;(astronomy) a measure of time defined by earth's orbital motion. terrestrial time is mean solar time corrected for the irregularities of the earth's motions
centime;a fractional monetary unit of several countries: france and algeria and belgium and burundi and cameroon and chad and the congo and gabon and haiti and the ivory coast and luxembourg and mali and morocco and niger and rwanda and senegal and switzerland and togo and upper volta
forty;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and four
min;a unit of time equal to 60 seconds or 1/60th of an hour. 'he ran a 4 minute mile'
catch;the quantity that was caught. 'the catch was only 10 fish'
hg;100 grams
saudi arabian monetary unit;monetary unit in saudi arabia
mutual inductance;a measure of the induction between two circuits. the ratio of the electromotive force in a circuit to the corresponding change of current in a neighboring circuit. usually measured in henries
geometric pace;a modern version of the roman pace now taken to be 5 feet
thousandth;one part in a thousand
tub;the amount that a tub will hold. 'a tub of water'
plenty;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
imperial capacity unit;a unit of measure for capacity officially adopted in the british imperial system. british units are both dry & wet
portuguese monetary unit;monetary unit in portugal
pennyweight;a unit of apothecary weight equal to 24 grains
loads;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
phon;a unit of subjective loudness
are;a unit of surface area equal to 100 square meters
microradian;a unit of angular distance equal to one thousandth of a milliradian
today;the day that includes the present moment (as opposed to yesterday or tomorrow). 'today is beautiful'. 'did you see today's newspaper?'
monad;a singular metaphysical entity from which material properties are said to derive
floating point number;a number represented in floating-point notation
dessertspoon;as much as a dessertspoon will hold
force unit;a unit of measurement of physical force
pitcherful;the quantity contained in a pitcher
therm;a unit of heat equal to 100,000 british thermal units
birthday;the date on which a person was born
shipload;the amount of cargo that can be held by a boat or ship or a freight car. 'he imported wine by the boatload'
punt;the basic unit of money in ireland. equal to 100 pence
inner product;a real number (a scalar) that is the product of two vectors
bahrainian monetary unit;monetary unit in bahrain
nix;a quantity of no importance. 'it looked like nothing i had ever seen before'. 'reduced to nil all the work we had done'. 'we racked up a pathetic goose egg'. 'it was all for naught'. 'i didn't hear zilch about it'
degree;a measure for arcs and angles. 'there are 360 degrees in a circle'
nautical chain;a nautical unit of length (15 ft)
ugandan monetary unit;monetary unit in uganda
aliquant part;an integer that is not an exact divisor of some quantity. '5 is an aliquant part of 12'
swiss franc;the basic unit of money in switzerland
shilling;the basic unit of money in kenya. equal to 100 cents
one eighth;an eighth part
firkin;a british unit of capacity equal to 9 imperial gallons
niger franc;the basic unit of money in niger
cruzeiro;the basic unit of money in brazil. equal to 100 centavos
sixty;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and six
bucket;the quantity contained in a bucket
yen;the basic unit of money in japan. equal to 100 sen
transmission;the fraction of radiant energy that passes through a substance
hectoliter;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 100 liters
square inch;a unit of area equal to one inch by one inch square
kilovolt ampere;a unit of electrical power equal to 1000 volt-amperes
henry;a unit of inductance in which an induced electromotive force of one volt is produced when the current is varied at the rate of one ampere per second
chetrum;100 chetrums equal 1 ngultrum
lxx;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and seven
cubic decimeter;a metric unit of capacity equal to the volume of 1 kilogram of pure water at 4 degrees centigrade and 760 mm of mercury (or approximately 1.76 pints)
sec;1/60 of a minute. the basic unit of time adopted under the system international d'unites
apothecaries;an apothecary weight equal to 12 ounces or 373.242 grams
british capacity unit;a unit of measure for capacity officially adopted in the british imperial system. british units are both dry & wet
kyat;the basic unit of money in myanmar
dag;10 grams
kilometer;a metric unit of length equal to 1000 meters (or 0.621371 miles)
pentad;the cardinal number that is the sum of four and one
nicaraguan monetary unit;monetary unit in nicaragua
e;the base of the natural system of logarithms
fluid ounce;a british imperial unit of capacity or volume (liquid or dry) equal to 8 fluid drams or 28.416 cubic centimeters (1.734 cubic inches)
british shilling;a former monetary unit in great britain
decigram;1/10 gram
hectometer;a metric unit of length equal to 100 meters
shoestring;a small amount of money. 'he managed it on a shoestring'
fahrenheit scale;a system of measuring temperature. 32 is the melting point of ice and 212 is the boiling point of water
indefinite quantity;an estimated quantity
peso;the basic unit of money in cuba. equal to 100 centavos
myriagram;one ten thousandth of a centner
malaysian monetary unit;monetary unit is malaysia
metical;the basic unit of money in mozambique. equal to 100 centavos
cipher;a mathematical element that when added to another number yields the same number
mean solar day;time for earth to make a complete rotation on its axis. 'two days later they left'. 'they put on two performances every day'. 'there are 30,000 passangers per day'
threesome;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
15;the cardinal number that is the sum of fourteen and one
peso;the basic unit of money in mexico. equal to 100 centavos
drink;a single serving of a beverage. 'i asked for a hot drink'. 'likes a drink before dinner'
capacity;(computer science) the amount of information (in bytes) that can be stored on a disk drive. 'the capacity of a hard disk drive is usually expressed in megabytes'
pound;the basic unit of money in the sudan. equal to 100 piasters
xxvi;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-five and one
uruguayan monetary unit;monetary unit in uruguay
mesh;the number of opening per inch of a screen. measures size of particles. 'a 100 mesh screen' or '100 mesh powdered cellulose'
thirty;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and three
basketful;the quantity contained in a basket
exposure;the intensity of light falling on a photographic film or plate. 'he used the wrong exposure'
tical;the basic unit of money in thailand
metric capacity unit;a capacity unit defined in metric terms
rankine scale;an absolute temperature scale in fahrenheit degrees
weight;a unit used to measure weight. 'he placed two weights in the scale pan'
tablespoon;as much as a tablespoon will hold
sperm count;the number of sperm in an ejaculate. 'the sperm count is used as an indicator of male fertility'
ullage;the amount that a container (as a wine bottle or tank) lacks of being full
dyad;two items of the same kind
nautical mile;a unit of length used in navigation. equivalent to the distance spanned by one second of arc in latitude. 1,852 meters
tdt;(astronomy) a measure of time defined by earth's orbital motion. terrestrial time is mean solar time corrected for the irregularities of the earth's motions
bottom;the second half of an inning. while the home team is at bat
shilling;the basic unit of money in somalia. equal to 100 cents
raindrop;a drop of rain
equivalent binary digit factor;the average number of binary digits needed to express one radix digit in a non-binary numeration system. on the average a number that can be expressed in n decimal digits takes 3.3n binary digits
millime;1,000 millimes equal 1 dinar
twenty five percent;one of four equal parts. 'a quarter of a pound'
tambala;100 tambala equal 1 kwacha
fin;the cardinal number that is the sum of four and one
decameter;a metric unit of length equal to ten meters
ton;a united states unit of weight equivalent to 2000 pounds
oodles;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
yard;a unit of volume (as for sand or gravel)
costa rican monetary unit;monetary unit in costa rica
trio;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
drachma;the basic unit of money in greece
cubic kilometre;a unit of capacity equal to the volume of a cube one kilometer on each edge
jamaican dollar;the basic unit of money in jamaica
honduran monetary unit;monetary unit in honduras
large indefinite quantity;an indefinite quantity that is above the average in size or magnitude
cud;a wad of something chewable as tobacco
arroba;a liquid measure (with different values) used in some spanish speaking countries
lx;a unit of illumination equal to 1 lumen per square meter. 0.0929 foot candle
b.t.u.;a unit of energy equal to the work done by a power of 1000 watts operating for one hour
triplet;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
somalian shilling;the basic unit of money in somalia. equal to 100 cents
explosive unit;any unit for measuring the force of explosions
baht;the basic unit of money in thailand
ore;a monetary subunit in denmark and norway and sweden. 100 ore equal 1 krona
terabyte;a unit of information equal to one trillion (1,000,000,000,000) bytes
agate line;space for one line of print (one column wide and 1/14 inch deep) used to measure advertising
rad;the unit of plane angle adopted under the system international d'unites. equal to the angle at the center of a circle subtended by an arc equal in length to the radius (approximately 57.295 degrees)
sea;anything apparently limitless in quantity or volume
small indefinite quantity;an indefinite quantity that is below average size or magnitude
troy weight;a system of weights used for precious metals and gemstones. based on a 12-ounce pound and an ounce of 480 grains
80;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and eight
cubic measure;a unit of measurement of volume or capacity
electromagnetic unit;any of various systems of units for measuring electricity and magnetism
gambian monetary unit;monetary unit in gambia
gram atom;the quantity of an element whose weight in grams is numerically equal to the atomic weight of the element
bite;a small amount of solid food. a mouthful. 'all they had left was a bit of bread'
month;a time unit of 30 days. 'he was given a month to pay the bill'
qindarka;100 qindarka equal 1 lek
hin;ancient hebrew unit of liquid measure = 1.5 gallons
arcminute;a unit of angular distance equal to a 60th of a degree
shilling;the basic unit of money in tanzania. equal to 100 cents
togo franc;the basic unit of money in togo
chicken leg;the lower joint of the leg of a chicken
astronomical unit;a unit of length used for distances within the solar system. equal to the mean distance between the earth and the sun (approximately 93 million miles or 150 million kilometers)
spate;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
scintilla;a tiny or scarcely detectable amount
sierra leone monetary unit;monetary unit in sierra leone
pul;100 puls equal 1 afghani
c;a degree on the centigrade scale of temperature
plateful;the quantity contained in a plate
degree centigrade;a degree on the centigrade scale of temperature
mali franc;the basic unit of money in mali
zambian kwacha;the basic unit of money in zambia
foot lambert;a former luminance unit equal to one lumen per square foot
pound;a nontechnical unit of force equal to the mass of 1 pound with an acceleration of free fall equal to 32 feet/sec/sec
bottle;the quantity contained in a bottle
l;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and five
880 yards;a unit of length equal to half of 1 mile
t;a unit of weight equivalent to 1000 kilograms
hand;a unit of length equal to 4 inches. used in measuring horses. 'the horse stood 20 hands'
circular measure;measurement of angles in radians
coefficient of drag;the ratio of the drag on a body moving through air to the product of the velocity and the surface area of the body
peso;the basic unit of money in the dominican republic. equal to 100 centavos
equatorial guinea monetary unit;monetary unit in equatorial guinea
magneton;a unit of magnetic moment of a molecular or atomic or subatomic particle
hair;a very small distance or space. 'they escaped by a hair's-breadth'. 'they lost by a hair'
colon;the basic unit of money in costa rica. equal to 100 centimos
kilometre;a metric unit of length equal to 1000 meters (or 0.621371 miles)
pinch;a small but appreciable amount. 'this dish could use a touch of garlic'
barye;the absolute unit of pressure equal to one dyne per square centimeter
mongo;100 mongo equal 1 tugrik
population;the number of inhabitants in a given place (country or city etc.). 'people come and go, but the population of this town has remained approximately constant for the past decade'
pint;a united states liquid unit equal to 16 fluid ounces. two pints equal one quart
cubic decimetre;a metric unit of capacity equal to the volume of 1 kilogram of pure water at 4 degrees centigrade and 760 mm of mercury (or approximately 1.76 pints)
charge unit;a measure of the quantity of electricity (determined by the amount of an electric current and the time for which it flows)
congius;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 4 quarts or 4.545 liters
nada;a quantity of no importance. 'it looked like nothing i had ever seen before'. 'reduced to nil all the work we had done'. 'we racked up a pathetic goose egg'. 'it was all for naught'. 'i didn't hear zilch about it'
coefficient of elasticity;(physics) the ratio of the applied stress to the change in shape of an elastic body
rupee;the basic unit of money in sri lanka. equal to 100 cents
krona;the basic unit of money in iceland
thigh;the upper joint of the leg of a fowl
sidereal hour;1/24 of a sidereal day
heat unit;a unit of measurement for work
angstrom;a metric unit of length equal to one ten billionth of a meter (or 0.0001 micron). used to specify wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation
quota;a prescribed number. 'all the salesmen met their quota for the month'
basinful;the quantity that a basin will hold
scores;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
large integer;an integer equal to or greater than ten
colombian monetary unit;monetary unit in colombia
pot;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
quadruplet;the cardinal number that is the sum of three and one
ouguiya;the basic unit of money in mauritania
section;a land unit of 1 square mile measuring 1 mile on a side
reservoir;a large or extra supply of something: 'a reservoir of talent'
pa;a unit of pressure equal to one newton per square meter
elastic modulus;(physics) the ratio of the applied stress to the change in shape of an elastic body
bulgarian monetary unit;monetary unit in bulgaria
handbreath;any unit of length based on the breadth of the human hand
panamanian monetary unit;monetary unit in panama
1000000;the number that is represented as a one followed by 6 zeros
hatful;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
third period;the third period of play in a game
chilean peso;the basic unit of money in chile. equal to 100 centesimos
north korean won;the basic unit of money in north korea
peck;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
fraction;the quotient of two rational numbers
megaton;one million tons
mutchkin;a scottish unit of liquid measure equal to 0.9 united states pint
watt;a unit of power equal to 1 joule per second. the power dissipated by a current of 1 ampere flowing across a resistance of 1 ohm
south african monetary unit;monetary unit in south africa
bagful;the quantity that a bag will hold. 'he ate a large bag of popcorn'
luminance unit;a measure of luminance
kg;one thousand grams. the basic unit of mass adopted under the system international d'unites
ream;a large quantity of written matter. 'he wrote reams and reams'
cipher;a quantity of no importance. 'it looked like nothing i had ever seen before'. 'reduced to nil all the work we had done'. 'we racked up a pathetic goose egg'. 'it was all for naught'. 'i didn't hear zilch about it'
ampere hour;a unit of charge equal to 3600 coulombs
mauritian monetary unit;monetary unit in mauritius
military pace;the length of a single step in marching (taken to be 30 inches for quick time or 36 inches for double time)
sabin;a unit of acoustic absorption equivalent to the absorption by a square foot of a surface that absorbs all incident sound
five hundred;the cardinal number that is the product of one hundred and five
nutritionist s calorie;unit of energy-producing potential in food and released by oxidation. equal to a kilocalorie of heat
boliviano;the basic unit of money in bolivia. equal to 100 centavos
block;a sector or group of sectors that function as the smallest data unit permitted. 'since blocks are often defined as a single sector, the terms 'block' and 'sector' are sometimes used interchangeably'
day of the month;the specified day of the month. 'what is the date today?'
biquadrate;an algebraic equation of the fourth degree
czechoslovakian monetary unit;monetary unit in czech and slovak federative republic
turn;(in sports) a period of play during which one team is on the offensive
hl;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 100 liters
14;the cardinal number that is the sum of thirteen and one
rupee;the basic unit of money in india. equal to 100 paise
two dozen;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-three and one
quire;a quantity of paper. 24 or 25 sheets
smidge;a tiny or scarcely detectable amount
underexposure;exposure to too little light or for too short a time
tenth part;a tenth part
southern yemeni monetary unit;monetary unit in southern yemen
eve;the day before. 'he always arrives on the eve of her departure'
centner;a united states unit of weight equivalent to 100 pounds
dyne;a unit of force equal to the force that imparts an acceleration of 1 cm/sec/sec to a mass of 1 gram
cracker crumbs;crumbs of crackers used especially for coating or thickening
lambert;a cgs unit of illumination equal to the brightness of a perfectly diffusing surface that emits or reflects one lumen per square centimeter
whiskey on the rocks;whiskey with ice
cubage unit;a unit of measurement of volume or capacity
minute of arc;a unit of angular distance equal to a 60th of a degree
japanese monetary unit;monetary unit in japan
millimeter of mercury;a unit of pressure equal to 0.001316 atmosphere. named after torricelli
octet;the cardinal number that is the sum of seven and one
baiza;1,000 baiza equal 1 riyal-omani
turkish lira;the basic unit of money in turkey
statute mile;a unit of length equal to 1760 yards
imperial gallon;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 4 quarts or 4.545 liters
90;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and nine
second half;the second of two halves of play
xii;the cardinal number that is the sum of eleven and onethe cardinal number that is the sum of eleven and one
phot;a unit of illumination equal to 1 lumen per square centimeter. 10,000 phots equal 1 lux
ordinate;the value of a coordinate on the y-axis
dram;1/16 ounce
cc;a metric unit of volume equal to one thousandth of a liter
twenty nine;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-eight and one
frigorie;a unit of heat equal to the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water by one degree at one atmosphere pressure
dreg;a small amount of residue
algerian monetary unit;monetary unit in algeria
pair;two items of the same kind
common multiple;an integer that is a multiple of two or more other integers
quarter hour;a quarter of an hour
twenty five;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-four and one
bag;the quantity that a bag will hold. 'he ate a large bag of popcorn'
cardinal number;the number of elements in a mathematical set
maund;a unit of weight used in asia. has different values in different countries. 'the official maund in india is 82.6 pounds avoirdupois'
3;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
millimetre;a metric unit of length equal to one thousandth of a meter
cutlet;thin slice of meat (especially veal) usually fried or broiled
kiloton;one thousand tons
centesimo;a fractional monetary unit of several countries: panama and italy and uruguay and chile
unity;the smallest whole number or a numeral representing this number. 'he has the one but will need a two and three to go with it'. 'they had lunch at one'the smallest whole number or a numeral representing this number. 'he has the one but will need a two and three to go with it'. 'they had lunch at one'
real;any rational or irrational number
divisor;the number by which a dividend is divided
acceleration unit;a unit for measuring acceleration
headcount;number of people in a particular group
pure imaginary number;an imaginary number of the form a+bi where a is 0
large number;a large indefinite number. 'a battalion of ants'. 'a multitude of tv antennas'
decametre;a metric unit of length equal to ten meters
jillions;a very large indefinite number (usually hyperbole)
tipple;a serving of drink (usually alcoholic)
verst;a russian unit of length (1.067 km)
frappe;thick milkshake containing ice cream
picometre;a metric unit of length equal to one trillionth of a meter
person hour;a time unit used in industry for measuring work
kwacha;the basic unit of money in malawi
step;the distance covered by a step. 'he stepped off ten paces from the old tree and began to dig'
absolute viscosity;a measure of the resistance to flow of a fluid under an applied force
stack;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
brix scale;a system for measuring the concentration of sugar solutions
megawatt;a unit of power equal to one million watts
filet;a longitudinal slice or boned side of a fish
carat;a unit of weight for precious stones = 200 mg
key;one thousand grams. the basic unit of mass adopted under the system international d'unites
l;a cgs unit of illumination equal to the brightness of a perfectly diffusing surface that emits or reflects one lumen per square centimeter
mess;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
gain;a quantity that is added. 'there was an addition to property taxes this year'. 'they recorded the cattle's gain in weight over a period of weeks'
characteristic;the integer part (positive or negative) of the representation of a logarithm. in the expression log 643 = 2.808 the characteristic is 2
bowl;the quantity contained in a bowl
mole;the molecular weight of a substance expressed in grams. the basic unit of amount of substance adopted under the system international d'unites
zimbabwean dollar;the basic unit of money in zimbabwe
lepton;100 lepta equal 1 drachma
linage;the number of lines in a piece of printed material
ice cream soda;a drink with ice cream floating in it
sthene;a unit of force equal to 1000 newtons
pound;the basic unit of money in lebanon. equal to 100 piasters
sufficiency;a quantity that is large enough to achieve a purpose or satisfy a desire. 'enough is as good as a feast'. 'there is more than a sufficiency of lawyers in this country'
riel;the basic unit of money in cambodia. equal to 100 sen
potential unit;a measure of the potential energy of a unit charge at a give point in a circuit relative to a reference point (ground)
two;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one or a numeral representing this numberthe cardinal number that is the sum of one and one or a numeral representing this number
captain hicks;the cardinal number that is the sum of five and one
mil;a unit of length equal to one thousandth of an inch. used to specify thickness (e.g., of sheets or wire)
pailful;the quantity contained in a pail
yugoslavian monetary unit;monetary unit in yugoslavia
standard candle;the basic unit of luminous intensity adopted under the system international d'unites. equal to 1/60 of the luminous intensity per square centimeter of a blackbody radiating at the temperature of 2,046 degrees kelvin
milligram;1/1000 gram
page number;the system of numbering pages
hp;a unit of power equal to 746 watts
kos;an indian unit of length having different values in different localities
eyrir;100 aurar equal 1 krona
spot;(british) a small quantity. 'a spot of tea'. 'a bit of paper'
tidy sum;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
hao;10 hao equal 1 dong
deluge;an overwhelming number or amount. 'a flood of requests'. 'a torrent of abuse'
sen;a fractional monetary unit of japan and indonesia and cambodia. equal to one hundredth of a yen or rupiah or riel
chon;100 chon equal 1 won
sops;piece of solid food for dipping in a liquid
metric unit;a decimal unit of measurement based on meters and kilograms and seconds
quint;the cardinal number that is the sum of four and one
cypher;a quantity of no importance. 'it looked like nothing i had ever seen before'. 'reduced to nil all the work we had done'. 'we racked up a pathetic goose egg'. 'it was all for naught'. 'i didn't hear zilch about it'
candela;the basic unit of luminous intensity adopted under the system international d'unites. equal to 1/60 of the luminous intensity per square centimeter of a blackbody radiating at the temperature of 2,046 degrees kelvin
rupee;the basic unit of money in mauritius. equal to 100 cents
seychelles rupee;the basic unit of money in seychelles. equal to 100 cents
bandwidth;a data transmission rate. the maximum amount of information (bits/second) that can be transmitted along a channel
xxx;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and three
13;the cardinal number that is the sum of twelve and one
gunter s chain;a unit of length (22 yards)
amount;"how much there is of something that you can measure"
seventy;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and seven
inch;a unit of measurement for advertising space
score;a number that expresses the accomplishment of a team or an individual in a game or contest. 'the score was 7 to 0'
rupiah;the basic unit of money in indonesia. equal to 100 sen
carton;the quantity contained in a carton
deciliter;a metric unit of volume equal to one tenth of a liter
atomic mass unit;unit of mass for expressing masses of atoms or molecules
cote d ivoire franc;the basic unit of money in the ivory coast
n;a unit of force equal to the force that imparts an acceleration of 1 m/sec/sec to a mass of 1 kilogram. equal to 100,000 dynes
capful;the quantity that a cap will hold
unit;any weight unit used in pharmacy. an ounce is equal to 480 grains and a pound is equal to 12 ounces
quarter;one of four equal parts. 'a quarter of a pound'
oka;a turkish unit of weight equal to about 2.75 pounds
moroccan monetary unit;monetary unit in morocco
atomic number;the order of an element in mendeleyev's table of the elements. equal to the number of protons in the nucleus or electrons in the neutral state of an atom of an element
krone;the basic unit of money in denmark
kwai;the basic unit of money in china
batch;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
israeli monetary unit;monetary unit in israel
kuwaiti dirham;worth one tenth of a kuwaiti dinar. equal 100 fils
xi;the cardinal number that is the sum of ten and one
footcandle;a unit of illuminance on a surface that is everywhere 1 foot from a point source of 1 candle
kiloton;a measure of explosive power (of an atomic weapon) equal to that of 1000 tons of tnt
jar;the quantity contained in a jar. 'he drank a jar of beer'
distich;two items of the same kind
turkish monetary unit;monetary unit in turkey
third power;the product of three equal terms
acre foot;the volume of water that would cover 1 acre to a depth of 1 foot. 43,560 cubic feet or 1233.5 cubic meters
cupful;the quantity a cup will hold. 'he drank a cup of coffee'. 'he borrowed a cup of sugar'
small calorie;unit of heat defined as the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 gram of water by 1c at atmospheric pressure
scoopful;the quantity a scoop will hold
barrow;the quantity that a barrow will hold
decimal digit;a digit from 0 to 9 in decimal notation
tons;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
seniti;100 seniti equal 1 pa'anga
angular unit;a unit of measurement for angles
two thirds;two of three equal parts of a divisible whole
octad;the cardinal number that is the sum of seven and one
compound fraction;a fraction with fractions in the numerator or denominator
potful;the quantity contained in a pot
steradian;the unit of solid angle adopted under the system international d'unites
mouthful;a small amount eaten or drunk. 'take a taste--you'll like it'
gram calorie;unit of heat defined as the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 gram of water by 1c at atmospheric pressure
twenty seven;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-six and one
kwacha;the basic unit of money in zambia
engineer s chain;a unit of length (100 ft)
aleph nought;the smallest infinite integer
29;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-eight and one
british monetary unit;monetary unit in great britain
containerful;the quantity that a container will hold
basin;the quantity that a basin will hold
xxix;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-eight and one
lxxx;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and eight
stat mi;a unit of length equal to 1760 yards
lunation;the period between successive new moons (29.531 days)
fill;destructively replaces elements of sequence with item. returns the destructively modified sequence.a quantity sufficient to satisfy. 'he ate his fill of potatoes'. ' she had heard her fill of gossip'
halfpennyworth;the amount that can be bought for a halfpenny
liquid measure;a unit of capacity for liquids (for measuring the volumes of liquids or their containers)
mantissa;the positive fractional part of the representation of a logarithm. in the expression log 643 = 2.808 the mantissa is .808
w;a unit of power equal to 1 joule per second. the power dissipated by a current of 1 ampere flowing across a resistance of 1 ohm
ii;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one or a numeral representing this numberthe cardinal number that is the sum of one and one or a numeral representing this number
billyoh;an unimaginably large amount. british say 'it rained like billyo' where americans say 'it rained like all get out'
shake;frothy drink of milk and flavoring and sometimes fruit or ice cream
colon;the basic unit of money in el salvador. equal to 100 centavos
gallon;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 4 quarts or 4.545 liters
finnish monetary unit;monetary unit in finland
25;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-four and one
chiliad;the cardinal number that is the product of 10 and 100
dinar;100 dinars equal 1 rial
cayman islands dollar;the basic unit of money in the cayman islands
splash;a small quantity of something moist or soft. 'a dab of paint'. 'a splatter of mud'
chain;a unit of length
butut;100 bututs equal 1 dalasi
cu ft;the volume equal to a cube one foot on each side
maiden;(cricket) an over in which no runs are scored
msec;one thousandth of a second
portion;an individual portion of food or drink: 'the helpings were all small'. 'his portion was larger than hers'. 'there's enough for two servings each'
oxtant;a unit of angular distance equal to half a quadrant
riyal;the basic unit of money in qatar
pocketful;the quantity a pocket will hold
fish fillet;a longitudinal slice or boned side of a fish
sudanese pound;the basic unit of money in the sudan. equal to 100 piasters
coefficient of friction;the ratio of the weight of an object being moved along a surface and the force that maintains contact between the object and the surface
qurush;20 qurush equal 1 riyal
nose;a small distance. 'my horse lost the race by a nose'
hair s breadth;a very small distance or space. 'they escaped by a hair's-breadth'. 'they lost by a hair'
60 minutes;a period of time equal to 1/24th of a day. 'the job will take more than an hour'
xviii;the cardinal number that is the sum of seventeen and one
heller;100 halers equal 1 koruna
ephah;an ancient hebrew unit of dry measure equal to about a bushel
tomorrow;the day after today. 'what are our tasks for tomorrow?'
liquid unit;a unit of capacity for liquids (for measuring the volumes of liquids or their containers)
tear;a drop of the clear salty saline solution secreted by the lacrimal glands. 'his story brought tears to her eyes'
tercet;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
shandy;a drink made of beer and lemonade
drachm;a unit of capacity or volume in the apothecary system equal to one eighth of a fluid ounce
trace;a just detectable amount. 'he speaks french with a trace of an accent'
flood;an overwhelming number or amount. 'a flood of requests'. 'a torrent of abuse'
tenner;the cardinal number that is the sum of nine and one. the base of the decimal system
megaflops;(computer science) a unit for measuring computing power
radioactivity unit;a measure of radioactivity
bath;an ancient hebrew liquid measure equal to about 10 gallons
cm;a metric unit of length equal to one hundredth of a meter
wing;the wing of a fowl. 'he preferred the drumsticks to the wings'
kilo;one thousand grams. the basic unit of mass adopted under the system international d'unites
26;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-five and one
one million million;(in the united states and france) the number that is represented as a one followed by 12 zeros. 'in england they call a trillion a billion'
cubic millimeter;a metric measure of volume or capacity equal to a cube 1 millimeter on each edge
nautical linear unit;a linear unit of distance used in navigation
riyal omani;the basic unit of money in oman
lunar month;the period between successive new moons (29.531 days)
pengo;formerly the basic unit of money in hungary until it was replaced by the forint in 1946
2;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one or a numeral representing this numberthe cardinal number that is the sum of one and one or a numeral representing this number
lev;the basic unit of money in bulgaria
oersted;the magnetic field strength 1 cm from a unit magnetic pole
qatari dirham;100 dirhams equal 1 riyal
magnetomotive force unit;a unit of measurement of magnetomotive force
morgen;a south african unit of measure equal to about 2 acres
kilogram meter;a unit of work equal to the work done by a one kilogram force operating through a distance of one meter
dekameter;a metric unit of length equal to ten meters
cental;a united states unit of weight equivalent to 100 pounds
kopek;100 kopecks equal 1 ruble
piece;a serving that has been cut from a larger portion. 'a piece of pie'. 'a slice of bread'
austral;the basic unit of money in argentina. equal to 100 centavos
gb;a unit of information equal to one billion (1,000,000,000) bytes or one thousand megabytes
kilobyte;1024 bytes of information
unit;any division of quantity accepted as a standard of measurement or exchange. 'the dollar is the united states unit of currency'. 'a unit of wheat is a bushel'. 'change per unit volume'
botswana monetary unit;monetary unit in botswana
grade;one-hundredth of a right angle
sri lanka rupee;the basic unit of money in sri lanka. equal to 100 cents
quart;a united states dry unit equal to 2 pints or 67.2 cubic inches
cubic centimeter;a metric unit of volume equal to one thousandth of a liter
dutch monetary unit;monetary unit in the netherlands
cuban monetary unit;monetary unit in cuba
guinean monetary unit;monetary unit in guinea
morrow;the next day. 'whenever he arrives she leaves on the morrow'
koruna;the basic unit of money in czechoslovakia
lbf.;a nontechnical unit of force equal to the mass of 1 pound with an acceleration of free fall equal to 32 feet/sec/sec
mile;a former british unit of length once used in navigation. equivalent to 1828.8 meters (6000 feet)
cubic inch;the volume equal to a cube one inch on each side
m;the basic unit of length adopted under the system international d'unites (approximately 1.094 yards)
printing unit;a unit of measurement for printing
milkshake;frothy drink of milk and flavoring and sometimes fruit or ice cream
teens;all the numbers that end in -teen
coefficient;a constant number that serves as a measure of some property or characteristic
cubic kilometer;a unit of capacity equal to the volume of a cube one kilometer on each edge
five;the cardinal number that is the sum of four and one
thimble;as much as a thimble will hold
quadrillionth;one part in a quadrillion
parity;(computer science) an error detection procedure in which a bit (0 or 1) added to each group of bits so that it will have either an odd number of 1's or an even number of 1's. e.g., if the parity is odd then any group of bits that arrives with an even number of 1's must contain an error
limit;the greatest amount of something that is possible or allowed. 'there are limits on the amount you can bet'. 'it is growing rapidly with no limitation in sight'
leu;the basic unit of money in romania
baryon number;a number equal to the difference between the number of baryons and the number of antibaryons in any subatomic structure. it is conserved in all types of particle interactions
guilder;the basic unit of money in the netherlands. equal to 100 cents
greek monetary unit;monetary unit in greece
dekametre;a metric unit of length equal to ten meters
duck;(in cricket) a score of nothing by a batsman
muckle;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
metric linear unit;a linear unit of distance in metric terms
cubic centimetre;a metric unit of volume equal to one thousandth of a liter
cup;a united states liquid unit equal to 8 fluid ounces
great hundred;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and twelve
j;a unit of electrical energy equal to the work done when a current of one ampere passes through a resistance of one ohm for one second
secpar;a unit of astronomical length based on the distance from earth at which stellar parallax is 1 second of arc. equivalent to 3.262 light years
whole number;any of the natural numbers (positive or negative) or zero
bit;a unit of measurement of information (from binary+digit). the amount of information in a system having two equiprobable states. 'there are 8 bits in a byte'
craps;when two dice are thrown and both come up showing one spot the results is called 'craps' or 'snake eyes'
drop;a small quantity of liquid. 'one drop of each sample was analyzed'. 'any child with a drop of negro blood was legally a negro'
mho;a unit of conductance equal to the reciprocal of an ohm
bag;the quantity of game taken in a particular period (usually by one person). 'his bag included two deer'
centiliter;a metric unit of volume equal to one hundredth of a liter
calorie;a unit of heat equal to the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water by one degree at one atmosphere pressure
lesotho monetary unit;monetary unit in lesotho
d;the cardinal number that is the product of one hundred and five
minim;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 1/60th fluid dram or 0.059194 cubic centimeters
30 minutes;a half of an hour
head count;number of people in a particular group
mickle;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
bit;a small amount of solid food. a mouthful. 'all they had left was a bit of bread'
trine;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
twelve;the cardinal number that is the sum of eleven and onethe cardinal number that is the sum of eleven and one
ten percent;a tenth part
dl;a metric unit of volume equal to one tenth of a liter
hong kong dollar;the basic unit of money in hong kong
tunisian dinar;the basic unit of money in tunisia
head;the length or height based on the size of a human or animal head. 'he is two heads taller than his little sister'. 'his horse won by a head'
little;a small amount or duration. 'he accepted the little they gave him'
displacement unit;a unit of measurement of volume or capacity
millions;a very large indefinite number (usually hyperbole)
mt;a unit of weight equivalent to 1000 kilograms
zloty;the basic unit of money in poland
23;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-two and one
droplet;a tiny drop
tonne;a unit of weight equivalent to 1000 kilograms
one fifth;a fifth part
copeck;100 kopecks equal 1 ruble
11;the cardinal number that is the sum of ten and one
numerator;the dividend of a fractionreturns the numerator of the canonical reduced form of rational.
cubic millimetre;a metric measure of volume or capacity equal to a cube 1 millimeter on each edge
hair of the dog;an alcoholic drink supposed to cure a hangover
united states liquid unit;a unit of measurement of capacity for liquids officially adopted in the united states customary system
elastance unit;the reciprocal of capacitance
systeme international;a complete metric system of units of measurement for scientists. fundamental quantities are length (meter) and mass (kilogram) and time (second) and electric current (ampere) and temperature (kelvin) and amount of matter (mole) and luminous intensity (candela)
shred;a tiny or scarcely detectable amount
maturity;the date on which a financial obligation must be repaid
one half;one of two equal parts of a divisible whole. 'half a loaf' or 'half an hour' or 'a century and one half'
dinar;the basic unit of money in kuwait. equal 1,000 fils
bout;(in sports) a period of play during which one team is on the offensive
cordoba;the basic unit of money in nicaragua. equal to 100 centavos
guatemalan monetary unit;monetary unit in guatemala
figure;a digit from 0 to 9 in decimal notation
fourth;one of four equal parts. 'a quarter of a pound'
ampere;a former unit of electric current (slightly smaller than the si ampere)
hundredth;on part in a hundred
coss;an indian unit of length having different values in different localities
myriad;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and one thousand
iv;the cardinal number that is the sum of three and one
light hour;the distance light travels in a vacuum in one hour. approximately one billion kilometers
information measure;a system of measurement of information based on the probabilities of the information-bearing events
abcoulomb;a unit of electrical charge equal to 10 coulombs
prime;a quantity that has no factor but itself and 1
square root;a number that when multiplied by itself equals a given number
hundredweight;a british unit of weight equivalent to 112 pounds
gabon franc;the basic unit of money in gabon
chadian franc;the basic unit of money in chad
fluid drachm;a unit of capacity or volume in the apothecary system equal to one eighth of a fluid ounce
abhenry;a unit of inductance equal to one billionth of a henry
hundredweight;a unit of weight equal to 100 kilograms
sq yd;a unit of area equal to one yard by one yard square
seventh;a seventh part
radix;(in a digital numeration system) the positive integer that is equivalent to one in the next higher counting place. '10 is the radix of the decimal system'
battalion;a large indefinite number. 'a battalion of ants'. 'a multitude of tv antennas'
ampere minute;a unit of charge equal to 60 coulombs
decimal;a number in the decimal system
swedish krona;the basic unit of money in sweden
expansivity;the fractional change in length or area or volume per unit change in temperature at a given constant pressure
dollar;the basic monetary unit in many countries. equal to 100 cents
cubic yard;a unit of volume (as for sand or gravel)
weighting;(statistics) a coefficient assigned to elements of a frequency distribution in order to represent their relative importance
man hour;a time unit used in industry for measuring work
dynamic viscosity;a measure of the resistance to flow of a fluid under an applied force
cubic meter;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 1000 liters
quart;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 2 pints or 1.136 liters
dinar;the basic unit of money in tunisia
ternion;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
board foot;the volume of a piece of wood 1 foot square and 1 inch thick
headful;the quantity of information that a head will hold. 'he has a headful of baseball statistics'
united arab emirate monetary unit;monetary unit in the united arab emirates
rod;(british) a linear measure of 16.5 feet
boatload;the amount of cargo that can be held by a boat or ship or a freight car. 'he imported wine by the boatload'
irish monetary unit;monetary unit in the republic of ireland
tierce;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
quintet;the cardinal number that is the sum of four and one
quaternary;the cardinal number that is the sum of three and one
mean time;(astronomy) time based on the motion of the mean sun (an imaginary sun moving uniformly along the celestial equator)
multiplier;the number by which a multiplicand is multiplied
km;a metric unit of length equal to 1000 meters (or 0.621371 miles)
imaginary part;the part of a complex number that has the square root of -1 as a factor
grain;1/60 dram. equals an avoirdupois grain or 64.799 milligrams
short ton;a united states unit of weight equivalent to 2000 pounds
malted milk;a milkshake made with malt powder
single;the smallest whole number or a numeral representing this number. 'he has the one but will need a two and three to go with it'. 'they had lunch at one'the smallest whole number or a numeral representing this number. 'he has the one but will need a two and three to go with it'. 'they had lunch at one'
square mile;an area of 640 acres
pakistani rupee;the basic unit of money in pakistan. equal to 100 paisas
70;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and seven
smattering;a small number or amount. 'only a handful of responses were received'
barrelful;the quantity that a barrel (of any size) will hold
fluidounce;a british imperial unit of capacity or volume (liquid or dry) equal to 8 fluid drams or 28.416 cubic centimeters (1.734 cubic inches)
geographical mile;a british unit of length equivalent to 1,853.18 meters (6,082 feet)
smidgeon;a tiny or scarcely detectable amount
illumination unit;a measure of illumination
pick;the quantity of a crop that is harvested. 'he sent the first picking of berries to the market'. 'it was the biggest peach pick in years'
circulating decimal;a decimal with a sequence of digits that repeats itself indefinitely
root beer float;an ice-cream soda made with ice cream floating in root beer
ligne;a linear unit (1/40 inch) used to measure diameter of buttons
draft;a serving of drink (usually alcoholic)
measure;"how much there is of something that you can measure"
kilogram calorie;a unit of heat equal to the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water by one degree at one atmosphere pressure
si;a complete metric system of units of measurement for scientists. fundamental quantities are length (meter) and mass (kilogram) and time (second) and electric current (ampere) and temperature (kelvin) and amount of matter (mole) and luminous intensity (candela)
icelandic krona;the basic unit of money in iceland
xix;the cardinal number that is the sum of eighteen and one
16;the cardinal number that is the sum of fifteen and one
dinar;the basic unit of money in algeria
pot;the quantity contained in a pot
dominican monetary unit;monetary unit in the dominican republic
quarter section;a land unit equal to a quarter of a section (160 acres) and measuring 1/2 mile on a side
guinea bissau peso;the basic unit of money in guinea-bissau. equal to 100 centavos
aught;a quantity of no importance. 'it looked like nothing i had ever seen before'. 'reduced to nil all the work we had done'. 'we racked up a pathetic goose egg'. 'it was all for naught'. 'i didn't hear zilch about it'
sea mile;a former british unit of length once used in navigation. equivalent to 1828.8 meters (6000 feet)
mg;1/1000 gram
xiii;the cardinal number that is the sum of twelve and one
tesla;a unit of magnetic flux density equal to one weber per square meter
weight;a system of units used to express the weight of something
rial;the basic unit of money in iran
nightcap;an alcoholic drink taken at bedtime. often alcoholic
quantity unit;a measure of the quantity of electricity (determined by the amount of an electric current and the time for which it flows)
body length;the length of your body
unit of viscosity;a unit of measurement for viscosity
seventeen;the cardinal number that is the sum of sixteen and one
tank;as much as a tank will hold
zip;a quantity of no importance. 'it looked like nothing i had ever seen before'. 'reduced to nil all the work we had done'. 'we racked up a pathetic goose egg'. 'it was all for naught'. 'i didn't hear zilch about it'
land mile;a unit of length equal to 1760 yards
common fraction;the quotient of two integers
prime number;an integer that has no integral factors but itself and 1
centner;a unit of weight equal to 100 kilograms
barrel;the quantity that a barrel (of any size) will hold
anna;a former copper coin of pakistan
ream;a quantity of paper. 480 or 500 sheets. one ream equals 20 quires
pound;the basic unit of money in ireland. equal to 100 pence
centimeter;a metric unit of length equal to one hundredth of a meter
ninety;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and nine
gram molecule;the molecular weight of a substance expressed in grams. the basic unit of amount of substance adopted under the system international d'unites
taiwan dollar;the basic unit of money in taiwan
bell;(nautical) each of the eight half-hour units of nautical time signaled by strokes of a ship's bell. eight bells signals 4:00, 8:00, or 12:00 o'clock, either a.m. or p.m.
second;1/60 of a minute. the basic unit of time adopted under the system international d'unites
great deal;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
kettleful;the quantity a kettle will hold
egyptian monetary unit;monetary unit in egypt
milk shake;frothy drink of milk and flavoring and sometimes fruit or ice cream
drachma;a unit of apothecary weight equal to an eighth of an ounce or to 60 grains
one thousand;the cardinal number that is the product of 10 and 100
angstrom unit;a metric unit of length equal to one ten billionth of a meter (or 0.0001 micron). used to specify wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation
afghani;the basic unit of money in afghanistan
round;a serving to each of a group (usually alcoholic). 'he ordered a second round'
9;the cardinal number that is the sum of eight and one
large calorie;a unit of heat equal to the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water by one degree at one atmosphere pressure
syrian monetary unit;monetary unit in syria
ace;the smallest whole number or a numeral representing this number. 'he has the one but will need a two and three to go with it'. 'they had lunch at one'the smallest whole number or a numeral representing this number. 'he has the one but will need a two and three to go with it'. 'they had lunch at one'
khoum;5 khoums equal 1 ouguiya
eighter;the cardinal number that is the sum of seven and one
cartload;the quantity that a cart holds
kelvin;the basic unit of thermodynamic temperature adopted under the system international d'unites
dry pint;a united states dry unit equal to 0.5 quart or 33.6 cubic inches
weight unit;a unit used to measure weight. 'he placed two weights in the scale pan'
integer;any of the natural numbers (positive or negative) or zero
ethiopian monetary unit;monetary unit in ethiopia
turkey leg;the lower joint of the leg of a turkey
centner;in some european countries: a unit of weight equivalent to 50 kilograms
macao monetary unit;monetary unit in macao
aleph zero;the smallest infinite integer
fifth;a fifth part
decimal fraction;a proper fraction whose denominator is a power of 10
viii;the cardinal number that is the sum of seven and one
megohm;a unit of resistance equal to one million ohms
aliquot part;an integer that is an exact divisor of some quantity. '4 is an aliquot part of 12'
cube root;a number that when multiplied three times equals a given number
maiden over;(cricket) an over in which no runs are scored
crateful;the quantity contained in a crate
1728;a cardinal number equal to one dozen gross
lb;16 ounces. 'he tried to lieft 100 pounds'
less;smaller in amount or degree: 'the less i see of you the better'. 'people have lost their heads for less'
tunisian monetary unit;monetary unit in tunisia
cube;the product of three equal terms
flux density unit;a measure of the amount of flux per unit of cross sectional area
last;(british) a unit of capacity for grain equal to 80 bushels
epha;an ancient hebrew unit of dry measure equal to about a bushel
sextant;a unit of angular distance equal to 60 degrees
attosecond;one quintillionth of a second. one thousandth of a femtosecond
gamma;a unit of magnetic field strength equal to one-hundred-thousandth of an oersted
tanzanian shilling;the basic unit of money in tanzania. equal to 100 cents
centimetre;a metric unit of length equal to one hundredth of a meter
dkm;a metric unit of length equal to ten meters
sq ft;a unit of area equal to one foot by one foot square
won;the basic unit of money in south korea
nit;a luminance unit equal to 1 candle per square meter measured perpendicular to the rays from the source
air mile;a unit of length used in navigation. equivalent to the distance spanned by one second of arc in latitude. 1,852 meters
zero;a mathematical element that when added to another number yields the same number
gulden;the basic unit of money in suriname. equal to 100 cents
mint;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
reflectivity;the fraction of radiant energy that is reflected from a surface
astronomy unit;a linear unit used for astronomical distances
yemeni dinar;the basic unit of money in yemen. equal to 100 fils
roman mile;an ancient roman unit of length equivalent to 1620 yards
aliquant;an integer that is not an exact divisor of some quantity. '5 is an aliquant part of 12'
myanmar monetary unit;monetary unit in the union of myanmar (burma)
mips;(computer science) a unit for measuring the execution speed of computers. '4 mips is 4,000,000 instructions per second'
tubful;the amount that a tub will hold. 'a tub of water'
taka;the basic unit of money in bangladesh. equal to 100 paisas
canful;the quantity contained in a can
millicurie;a unit of radioactivity equal to one thousandth of a curie
hatful;as many or as much as a hat will hold
nil;nothing (as used by a sheriff after an unsuccessful effort to serve a writ: 'nihil habet')
thai monetary unit;monetary unit in thailand
definite quantity;a specific measure of amount
number;a concept of quantity derived from zero and units. 'every number has a unique position in the sequence'
mil;a cypriot monetary unit equal to one thousandth of a pound
stacks;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
complex fraction;a fraction with fractions in the numerator or denominator
whiskey neat;whiskey without a mixer
dirham;the basic unit of money in morocco. equal to 100 centimes
round;(in sports) a period of play during which one team is on the offensive
caskful;the quantity a cask will hold
barn;(physics) a unit of nuclear cross section
long measure;a measure of length
calorie;unit of heat defined as the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 gram of water by 1c at atmospheric pressure
afghan monetary unit;monetary unit in the republic of afghanistan
60;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and six
guyana dollar;the basic unit of money in guyana
international system;a complete metric system of units of measurement for scientists. fundamental quantities are length (meter) and mass (kilogram) and time (second) and electric current (ampere) and temperature (kelvin) and amount of matter (mole) and luminous intensity (candela)
18;the cardinal number that is the sum of seventeen and one
27;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-six and one
gilbert;a unit of magnetomotive force equal to 0.7958 ampere-turns
bottleful;the quantity contained in a bottle
17;the cardinal number that is the sum of sixteen and one
loti;the basic unit of money is lesotho
sector;the minimum track length that can be assigned to store information. unless otherwise specified a sector of data consists of 512 bytes
ma;one thousandth of an ampere
whole slew;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
pain unit;a unit measuring the intensity of pain
brazilian monetary unit;monetary unit in brazil
love;a score of zero in tennis or squash. 'it was 40 love'
troika;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
fractional monetary unit;a monetary unit that is valued at a fraction (usually one hundredth) of the basic monetary unit
sene;100 sene equal 1 tala
mass;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
modicum;a small or moderate or token amount: 'england still expects a modicum of eccentricity in its artists'- ian jack
birr;the basic unit of money in ethiopia. equal to 100 cents
scallop;thin slice of meat (especially veal) usually fried or broiled
half;in various games or performances: either of two periods of play separated by an interval
v;a unit of potential equal to the potential difference between two points on a conductor carrying a current of 1 ampere when the power dissipated between the two points is 1 watt. equivalent to the potential difference across a resistance of 1 ohm when 1 ampere of current flows through it
keg;the quantity contained in a keg
tb;a unit of information equal to one trillion (1,000,000,000,000) bytes
fudge factor;a quantity that is added or subtracted in order to increase the accuracy of a scientific measure
para;100 para equal 1 dinar
twenty six;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-five and one
light minute;the distance light travels in a vacuum in one minute. approximately 18 million kilometers
common factor;an integer that divides two other integers
rouble;the basic unit of money in russia
lapful;the quantity that can be held in the lap
archine;a russian unit of length (71 cm)
palm;a linear unit based on the length or width of the human hand
arcsecond;a 60th part of a minute of arc. 'the treasure is 2 minutes and 45 seconds south of here'
multiplier factor;the number by which a multiplicand is multiplied
dry quart;a united states dry unit equal to 2 pints or 67.2 cubic inches
coefficient of expansion;the fractional change in length or area or volume per unit change in temperature at a given constant pressure
3.14159265358979323846...;the ratio of the circumference to the diameter of a circle
maturity date;the date on which a financial obligation must be repaid
8;the cardinal number that is the sum of seven and one
second;a 60th part of a minute of arc. 'the treasure is 2 minutes and 45 seconds south of here'
a;the basic unit of electric current adopted under the system international d'unites. 'a typical household circuit carries 15 to 50 amps'
coefficient of absorption;a measure of the rate of decrease in the intensity of electromagnetic radiation (as light) as it passes through a given substance. the fraction of incident radiant energy absorbed per unit mass or thickness of an absorber: 'absorptance equals 1 minus transmittance'
leap second;a second (as measured by an atomic clock) added to or subtracted from greenwich mean time in order to compensate for slowing in the earth's rotation
cup;the quantity a cup will hold. 'he drank a cup of coffee'. 'he borrowed a cup of sugar'
doubleton;two items of the same kind
game;the score needed to win a game. 'he is serving for the game'
brinell number;measure of the hardness of a material
bolivar;the basic unit of money in venezuela. equal to 100 centimos
monas;a singular metaphysical entity from which material properties are said to derive
one billionth;one part in a billion
cubit;an ancient unit of length based on the length of the forearm
square meter;a centare is 1/100th of an are
ev;a unit of energy equal to the work done by an electron accelerated through a potential difference of 1 volt
one thousand million;(in the united states) the number that is represented as a one followed by 9 zeros
hundred thousand;the cardinal number that is the fifth power of ten
irish pound;the basic unit of money in ireland. equal to 100 pence
parsec;a unit of astronomical length based on the distance from earth at which stellar parallax is 1 second of arc. equivalent to 3.262 light years
gobs;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
ten thousand;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and one thousand
120;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and twelve
dinar;the basic unit of money in southern yemen
can;the quantity contained in a can
lebanese monetary unit;monetary unit in lebanon
xvii;the cardinal number that is the sum of sixteen and one
watt second;a unit of electrical energy equal to the work done when a current of one ampere passes through a resistance of one ohm for one second
young s modulus;a coefficient of elasticity applicable to the stretching of a wire
barnful;the quantity that a barn will hold
yemeni monetary unit;monetary unit in yemen
cd;the basic unit of luminous intensity adopted under the system international d'unites. equal to 1/60 of the luminous intensity per square centimeter of a blackbody radiating at the temperature of 2,046 degrees kelvin
rupee;the basic unit of money in nepal. equal to 100 paisas
addition;a quantity that is added. 'there was an addition to property taxes this year'. 'they recorded the cattle's gain in weight over a period of weeks'
correction;a quantity that is added or subtracted in order to increase the accuracy of a scientific measure
flaskful;the quantity a flask will hold
footstep;the distance covered by a step. 'he stepped off ten paces from the old tree and began to dig'
cubic metre;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 1000 liters
mcg;one millionth of a gram
quantum;"how much there is of something that you can measure"
millibar;a unit of atmospheric pressure equal to one thousandth of a bar. 'atmospheric pressure at sea level is 1013 millibars'
quarter;(british) a quarter of a hundredweight (28 pounds)
mauritanian monetary unit;monetary unit in mauritania
micrometre;a metric unit of length equal to one millionth of a meter
perch;(british) a linear measure of 16.5 feet
more;a greater or additional quantity or number or degree or amount: 'the more i see of you the more i like you'
dong;the basic unit of money in vietnam
avoirdupois unit;any of the units of the avoirdupois system of weights
dirham;100 dirhams equal 1 riyal
angolan monetary unit;monetary unit in angola
dobra;the basic unit of money on sao tome e principe
curie;a unit of radioactivity equal to the amount of a radioactive isotope that decays at the rate of 37,000,000,000 disintegrations per second
milliwatt;a unit of power equal to one thousandth of a watt
inductance unit;a measure of the property of an electric circuit by which an electromotive force is induced in it
erlang;a unit of traffic intensity in a telephone system
blood count;the number of red and white corpuscles in a blood sample
fthm;(mining) a unit of volume (equal to 6 cubic feet) used in measuring bodies of ore
norwegian monetary unit;monetary unit in norway
twenty four;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-three and one
dalasi;the basic unit of money in gambia
1k;the cardinal number that is the product of 10 and 100
extremum;the most extreme possible amount or value. 'voltage peak'
one;the smallest whole number or a numeral representing this number. 'he has the one but will need a two and three to go with it'. 'they had lunch at one'the smallest whole number or a numeral representing this number. 'he has the one but will need a two and three to go with it'. 'they had lunch at one'
yoke;two items of the same kind
degree day;a unit used in estimating fuel requirements for heating a building
sangaree;(spanish) sweetened red wine and orange or lemon juice with soda water
dot product;a real number (a scalar) that is the product of two vectors
sidereal month;period between successive conjunctions with a star, 27.322 days
mile;a unit of length used in navigation. equivalent to the distance spanned by one second of arc in latitude. 1,852 meters
canadian dollar;the basic unit of money in canada
burkina faso franc;the basic unit of money in burkina faso
computer memory unit;a unit for measuring computer memory
malt;a milkshake made with malt powder
anomalistic month;period between successive perigees. approximately 27.5546 days
cordage;the amount of wood in an area as measured in cords
north korean monetary unit;monetary unit in north korea
peck;a united states dry measure equal to 8 quarts or 537.605 cubic inches
eye opener;an alcoholic drink intended to wake one up early in the morning
peck;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 2 gallons
gb;a unit of magnetomotive force equal to 0.7958 ampere-turns
league;an obsolete unit of distance of variable length (usually 3 miles)
birdie;(in golf) a score of one stroke under par on a golf hole
monetary unit;a monetary unit
hundredweight;a united states unit of weight equivalent to 100 pounds
h;a unit of inductance in which an induced electromotive force of one volt is produced when the current is varied at the rate of one ampere per second
leone;the basic unit of money in sierra leone. equal to 100 cents
venezuelan monetary unit;monetary unit of venezuela
one million million;(in britain) the number that is represented as a one followed by 12 zeros
jugful;the quantity contained in a jug
chew;a wad of something chewable as tobacco
pula;the basic unit of money in botswana
double digit;a two-digit integer. from 10 to 99
board of trade unit;a unit of energy equal to the work done by a power of 1000 watts operating for one hour
naught;a quantity of no importance. 'it looked like nothing i had ever seen before'. 'reduced to nil all the work we had done'. 'we racked up a pathetic goose egg'. 'it was all for naught'. 'i didn't hear zilch about it'
pascal;a unit of pressure equal to one newton per square meter
round of drinks;a serving to each of a group (usually alcoholic). 'he ordered a second round'
draught;a serving of drink (usually alcoholic)
florin;the basic unit of money in the netherlands. equal to 100 cents
bangladeshi monetary unit;monetary unit in bangladesh
dozens;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
grenada dollar;the basic unit of money in grenada
4;the cardinal number that is the sum of three and one
carload;the amount of cargo that can be held by a boat or ship or a freight car. 'he imported wine by the boatload'
admiralty mile;a british unit of length equivalent to 1,853.18 meters (6,082 feet)
abwatt;a power unit equal to the power dissipated when 1 abampere flows across a potential difference of 1 abvolt (one ten-thousandth of a milliwatt)
rankine;an absolute temperature scale in fahrenheit degrees
cubic foot;the volume equal to a cube one foot on each side
v;the cardinal number that is the sum of four and one
large indefinite amount;an indefinite quantity that is above the average in size or magnitude
lira;the basic unit of money on malta. equal to 100 cents
absorptance;a measure of the rate of decrease in the intensity of electromagnetic radiation (as light) as it passes through a given substance. the fraction of incident radiant energy absorbed per unit mass or thickness of an absorber: 'absorptance equals 1 minus transmittance'
half mile;a unit of length equal to half of 1 mile
mile;an ancient roman unit of length equivalent to 1620 yards
hairbreadth;a very small distance or space. 'they escaped by a hair's-breadth'. 'they lost by a hair'
em;a linear unit (1/6 inch) used in printing
asper;20 aspers equal 1 kuru
dekagram;10 grams
quantity;"how much there is of something that you can measure"
straight angle;an angle of 180 degrees
lashings;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
box;the quantity contained in a box. 'he gave her a box of chocolates'
mongolian monetary unit;monetary unit in mongolia
ringgit;the basic unit of money in malaysia. equal to 100 sen
grain;used for pearls or diamonds: 50 mg or 1/4 carat
em;the square of a body of any size of type
base;(in a digital numeration system) the positive integer that is equivalent to one in the next higher counting place. '10 is the radix of the decimal system'
eight;the cardinal number that is the sum of seven and one
metric system;a decimal system of weights and measures based on the meter and the kilogram and the second
dkg;10 grams
balboa;the basic unit of money in panama. equal to 100 centesimos
gramme;a metric unit of weight equal to one thousandth of a kilogram
pound;the basic unit of money in syria. equal to 100 piasters
pound;the basic unit of money in cyprus. equal to 100 cents
synodic month;the period between successive new moons (29.531 days)
seychelles monetary unit;monetary unit in seychelles
myriametre;a metric unit of length equal to 10,000 meters
eighth;an eighth part
swaziland monetary unit;monetary unit in swaziland
microgram;one millionth of a gram
field strength unit;an electromagnetic unit of magnetic intensity
atm;a unit of pressure: the pressure that will support a column of mercury 760 mm high at sea level and 0 degrees centigrade
paraguayan monetary unit;monetary unit in paraguay
phoebe;the cardinal number that is the sum of four and one
bin;the quantity contained in a bin
iraqi monetary unit;monetary unit in iraq
amp;the basic unit of electric current adopted under the system international d'unites. 'a typical household circuit carries 15 to 50 amps'
night;the dark part of the diurnal cycle considered a time unit. 'three nights later he collapsed'
benin franc;the basic unit of money in benin
weight unit;a decimal unit of weight based on the gram
twenty three;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-two and one
quetzal;the basic unit of money in guatemala. equal to 100 centavos
pya;100 pyas equal 1 kyat
algerian centime;100 centimes equal 1 dinar
chilean monetary unit;monetary unit in chile
current unit;a measure of the amount of electric charge flowing past a circuit point at a specific time
luminous flux unit;a measure of luminous flux per unit area
oka;a turkish liquid unit equal to 1.3 pints
cu in;the volume equal to a cube one inch on each side
pole;(british) a linear measure of 16.5 feet
weight;any weight unit used in pharmacy. an ounce is equal to 480 grains and a pound is equal to 12 ounces
sangria;(spanish) sweetened red wine and orange or lemon juice with soda water
pfennig;100 pfennigs equal 1 deutsche mark
ivory coast franc;the basic unit of money in the ivory coast
kilowatt;a unit of power equal to 1000 watts
erg;a cgs unit of work or energy. the work done by a force of one dyne acting over a distance of one centimeter
g;(physics) the universal constant relating force to mass and distance in newton's law of gravitation
uruguayan peso;the basic unit of money in uruguay. equal to 100 centesimos
rwanda franc;the basic unit of money in rwanda
millilitre;a metric unit of volume equal to one thousandth of a liter
australian dollar;the basic unit of money in australia and nauru
terrestrial time;(astronomy) a measure of time defined by earth's orbital motion. terrestrial time is mean solar time corrected for the irregularities of the earth's motions
tenth;a tenth part
one millionth;one part in a million
drachm;a unit of apothecary weight equal to an eighth of an ounce or to 60 grains
sight;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
tankful;as much as a tank will hold
one fourth;one of four equal parts. 'a quarter of a pound'
lower limit;the smallest possible quantity
paisa;a fractional monetary unit in bangladesh and india and nepal and pakistan
decimal;a proper fraction whose denominator is a power of 10
binary digit;either 0 or 1 in binary notation
cent;a fractional monetary unit of several countries
sudanese monetary unit;monetary unit in the sudan
colombian peso;the basic unit of money in colombia. equal to 100 centavos
glass;the quantity a glass will hold
microgauss;a unit of magnetic flux density equal to one millionth of a gauss
hour;a period of time equal to 1/24th of a day. 'the job will take more than an hour'
subunit;a monetary unit that is valued at a fraction (usually one hundredth) of the basic monetary unit
bowlful;the quantity contained in a bowl
jordanian dinar;the basic unit of money in jordan. equal to 1,000 fils
fluid dram;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 60 minims or 3.5516 cubic centimeters
fifty;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and five
duck s egg;(in cricket) a score of nothing by a batsman
couple;two items of the same kind
cinque;the cardinal number that is the sum of four and one
bushel;a united states dry measure equal to 4 pecks or 2152.42 cubic inches
mexican peso;the basic unit of money in mexico. equal to 100 centavos
dinar;the basic unit of money in jordan. equal to 1,000 fils
microbar;the absolute unit of pressure equal to one dyne per square centimeter
singapore dollar;the basic unit of money in singapore
number one;the first element in a countable series. 'the first of the month'
pounds per square inch;a unit of pressure
mile;a swedish unit of length equivalent to 10 km
ounce;a unit of apothecary weight equal to 480 grains or one twelfth of a pound
carful;the quantity that a car will hold
long hundredweight;a british unit of weight equivalent to 112 pounds
mouthful;the quantity that can be held in the mouth
bob;a former monetary unit in great britain
italian lira;the basic unit of money in italy. equal to 100 centesimi
gram atomic weight;the quantity of an element whose weight in grams is numerically equal to the atomic weight of the element
fillet;a longitudinal slice or boned side of a fish
atmosphere;a unit of pressure: the pressure that will support a column of mercury 760 mm high at sea level and 0 degrees centigrade
septet;the cardinal number that is the sum of six and one
decade;the cardinal number that is the sum of nine and one. the base of the decimal system
one hundredth;on part in a hundred
escudo;the basic unit of money on cape verde. equal to 100 centavos
date;the specified day of the month. 'what is the date today?'
6 june;day of the allied landing in france, world war ii
c;a unit of electrical charge equal to the amount of charge transferred by a current of 1 ampere in 1 second
dinar;the basic unit of money in libya
albanian monetary unit;monetary unit in albania
frequency;the number of observations in a given statistical category
chaw;a wad of something chewable as tobacco
cypriot pound;the basic unit of money in cyprus. equal to 100 cents
millimicron;a metric unit of length equal to one billionth of a meter
haul;the quantity that was caught. 'the catch was only 10 fish'
upper volta franc;the basic unit of money in burkina faso
singleton;a single object (as distinguished from a pair)
match;the score needed to win a match
gi;a unit of magnetomotive force equal to 0.7958 ampere-turns
fixed point number;a number represented in fixed-point notation
cape verde escudo;the basic unit of money on cape verde. equal to 100 centavos
jug;the quantity contained in a jug
raft;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
shovel;the quantity a shovel can hold
cutoff;a designated limit beyond which something cannot function or must be terminated
portuguese escudo;the basic monetary unit of portugal. equal to 100 centavo
kuru;100 kurus equal 1 lira
groschen;100 groschen equal 1 schilling
toea;100 toea equal 1 kina
foot ton;2240 foot-pounds
scale factor;a number used as a multiplier in scaling
million instructions per second;(computer science) a unit for measuring the execution speed of computers. '4 mips is 4,000,000 instructions per second'
ardeb;a unit of dry measure used in egypt
myriameter;a metric unit of length equal to 10,000 meters
worth;an indefinite quantity of something having a specified value. '10 dollars worth of gasoline'
bel;a logarithmic unit of sound intensity equal to 10 decibels
22;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-one and one
minute;a unit of time equal to 60 seconds or 1/60th of an hour. 'he ran a 4 minute mile'
hint;a just detectable amount. 'he speaks french with a trace of an accent'
hectare;(abbreviated 'ha') a unit of surface area equal to 100 ares (or 10,000 square meters)
self inductance;the ratio of the electromotive force produced in a circuit by self-induction to the rate of change of current producing it, expressed in henries
most;the greatest number or amount or degree: 'she has the most to lose'
small indefinite amount;an indefinite quantity that is below average size or magnitude
torrent;an overwhelming number or amount. 'a flood of requests'. 'a torrent of abuse'
laotian monetary unit;monetary unit in laos
milliliter;a metric unit of volume equal to one thousandth of a liter
six;the cardinal number that is the sum of five and one
bottom of the inning;the second half of an inning. while the home team is at bat
shoe string;a small amount of money. 'he managed it on a shoestring'
gauss;a unit of magnetic flux density equal to 1 maxwell per square centimeter
chicken wing;the wing of a chicken
conductance unit;a measure of a material's ability to conduct an electrical charge
ft;a linear unit of length equal to 12 inches or a third of a yard. 'he is six feet tall'
vii;the cardinal number that is the sum of six and one
kilovolt;a unit of potential equal to a thousand volts
terzetto;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
dozen;the cardinal number that is the sum of eleven and onethe cardinal number that is the sum of eleven and one
libyan dirham;100 dirhams equal 1 dinar
belize dollar;the basic unit of money in belize
megabyte;a unit of information equal to one million (1,048,576) bytes
light year;the distance that light travels in a vacuum in 1 year. 5.88 trillion miles or 9.46 trillion kilometers
slice;a serving that has been cut from a larger portion. 'a piece of pie'. 'a slice of bread'
bogey;(in golf) a score of one stroke over par on a golf hole
one third;one of three equal parts of a divisible whole. 'it contains approximately a third of the minimum daily requirement'
second power;the product of two equal terms. 'nine is the second power of three'. 'gravity is inversely proportional to the square of the distance'
irrational number;a real number that cannot be expressed as a rational number
mm;a metric unit of length equal to one thousandth of a meter
allocation unit;a group of sectors on a magnetic disk that can be reserved for the use of a particular file
grain;1/7000 pound. equals a troy grain or 64.799 milligrams
guarani;the basic unit of money in paraguay. equal to 100 centimos
pakistani monetary unit;monetary unit in pakistan
luminous intensity unit;a measure of luminous intensity
cattie;any of various units of weight used in se asia (especially a chinese measure equal to 500 grams)
short hundredweight;a united states unit of weight equivalent to 100 pounds
ohm;a unit of electrical resistance equal to the resistance between two points on a conductor when a potential difference of one volt between them produces a current of one ampere
haler;100 halers equal 1 koruna
tablespoonful;as much as a tablespoon will hold
xxiv;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-three and one
frappe;liqueur poured over shaved ice
troy;a system of weights used for precious metals and gemstones. based on a 12-ounce pound and an ounce of 480 grains
turkey wing;the wing of a turkey
troy unit;any of the unit of the troy system of weights
touch;a small but appreciable amount. 'this dish could use a touch of garlic'
jordanian monetary unit;monetary unit in jordan
tierce;one of three equal parts of a divisible whole. 'it contains approximately a third of the minimum daily requirement'
fluidounce;a united states unit of capacity or volume equal to 1.804 cubic inches
micromillimetre;a metric unit of length equal to one billionth of a meter
xl;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and four
ml;a metric unit of volume equal to one thousandth of a liter
long hundred;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and twelve
long dozen;the cardinal number that is the sum of twelve and one
reflection factor;the fraction of radiant energy that is reflected from a surface
telephone unit;a unit of measurement for telephone use
cask;the quantity a cask will hold
morsel;a small amount of solid food. a mouthful. 'all they had left was a bit of bread'
dkl;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 10 liters
terrestrial dynamical time;(astronomy) a measure of time defined by earth's orbital motion. terrestrial time is mean solar time corrected for the irregularities of the earth's motions
million floating point operations per second;(computer science) a unit for measuring computing power
sixer;the cardinal number that is the sum of five and one
24;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-three and one
centimo;a fractional monetary unit of venezuela and costa rica and equatorial guinea and paraguay and spain
lumen;a unit of luminous flux equal to the amount of light given out through a solid angle of 1 steradian by a point source of 1 candela intensity radiating uniformly in all directions
factor;one of two or more integers that can be exactly divided into another integer. 'what are the 4 factors of 6?'
guinea bissau monetary unit;monetary unit in guinea-bissau
modulus of rigidity;the coefficient of elasticity for a shearing force
digit;one of the elements that collectively form a system of numbers. '0 and 1 are digits'
luxembourg franc;the basic unit of money in luxembourg
billion;(in the united states) the number that is represented as a one followed by 9 zeros
absolute majority;(in an election) more than half of the votes
coefficient of mutual induction;a measure of the induction between two circuits. the ratio of the electromotive force in a circuit to the corresponding change of current in a neighboring circuit. usually measured in henries
iraqi dinar;the basic unit of money in iraq. equal to 1,000 fils
eighty;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and eight
one thousandth;one part in a thousand
f;the capacitance of a capacitor that has an equal and opposite charge of 1 coulomb on each plate and a voltage difference of 1 volt between the plates
144;twelve dozen
minute;a unit of angular distance equal to a 60th of a degree
smidgen;a tiny or scarcely detectable amount
point system;a system of graduating sizes of type in multiples of the point
light unit;a measure of the visible electromagnetic radiation
kegful;the quantity contained in a keg
karat;the unit of measurement for the proportion of gold in an alloy. 18-karat gold is 75% gold. 24-karat gold is pure gold
ecuadoran monetary unit;monetary unit in ecuador
word;a word is a string of bits stored in computer memory. 'large computers use words up to 64 bits long'
bad block;a block (usually one sector) that cannot reliably hold data
crore;(in indian english) the number that is represented as a one followed by 7 zeros
three fourths;three of four equal parts. 'three-fourths of a pound'
ruble;the basic unit of money in russia
bushel;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 4 pecks
minimum;the smallest possible quantity
hint;a small but appreciable amount. 'this dish could use a touch of garlic'
quatern;the cardinal number that is the sum of three and one
twenty one;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty and one
scalar product;a real number (a scalar) that is the product of two vectors
dirham;100 dirhams equal 1 dinar
spoon;as much as a spoon will hold. 'he added two spoons of sugar'
one quintillionth;one part in a quintillion
enough;a quantity that is large enough to achieve a purpose or satisfy a desire. 'enough is as good as a feast'. 'there is more than a sufficiency of lawyers in this country'
pail;the quantity contained in a pail
millifarad;a unit of capacitance equal to one thousandth of a farad
mark;the basic unit of money in germany
icelandic monetary unit;monetary unit in iceland
grand;the cardinal number that is the product of 10 and 100
chinese monetary unit;the monetary unit in the people's republic of china
crith;the weight of a liter of hydrogen (at 0 centigrade and 760 millimeters pressure)
potation;a serving of drink (usually alcoholic)
metric ton;a unit of weight equivalent to 1000 kilograms
dg;1/10 gram
absorption coefficient;a measure of the rate of decrease in the intensity of electromagnetic radiation (as light) as it passes through a given substance. the fraction of incident radiant energy absorbed per unit mass or thickness of an absorber: 'absorptance equals 1 minus transmittance'
rem;(roentgen equivalent man) the dosage of ionizing radiation that will cause the same amount of injury to human tissue as 1 roentgen of x-rays
morsel;a small quantity of anything. 'a morsel of paper was all he needed'
football score;the score in a football game
qatari riyal;the basic unit of money in qatar
dimension;one of three coordinates that determine a position in space
mile;a british unit of length equivalent to 1,853.18 meters (6,082 feet)
biquadratic;an algebraic equation of the fourth degree
kettle;the quantity a kettle will hold
over;(cricket) the period during which a given number of balls (6 in england. 8 in australia) are bowled at the batsman by one player from the other team from the same end of the pitch
tughrik;the basic unit of money in mongolia
cord;a unit of amount of wood cut for burning. 128 cubic feet
cambodian monetary unit;monetary unit in cambodia
formatted capacity;(computer science) the usable capacity of a disk drive. the amount of space that is left after the sector headings and boundary definitions and timing information have been added by formatting the disk
quadrillion;(in britain and germany) the number that is represented as a one followed by 24 zeros. 'in england they call a septillion a quadrillion'
kw hr;a unit of energy equal to the work done by a power of 1000 watts operating for one hour
cedi;the basic unit of money in ghana
triad;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
gourde;the basic unit of money in haiti
peso;the basic unit of money in guinea-bissau. equal to 100 centavos
xxii;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-one and one
pica em;a linear unit (1/6 inch) used in printing
franc;the basic monetary unit in many countries. equal to 100 centimes
quid;the basic unit of money in great britain. equal to 100 pence
degree fahrenheit;a degree on the fahrenheit scale of temperature
danish monetary unit;monetary unit in denmark
centilitre;a metric unit of volume equal to one hundredth of a liter
sound unit;any acoustic unit of measurement
lilangeni;the basic unit of money in swaziland. equal to 100 cents
deuce ace;the cardinal number that is the sum of one and one and one
quid;a wad of something chewable as tobacco
carat;the unit of measurement for the proportion of gold in an alloy. 18-karat gold is 75% gold. 24-karat gold is pure gold
zambian monetary unit;monetary unit in zambia
lx;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and six
megaton;a measure of explosive power (of an atomic weapon) equal to that of one million tons of tnt
twenty eight;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-seven and one
sevener;the cardinal number that is the sum of six and one
arcdegree;a measure for arcs and angles. 'there are 360 degrees in a circle'
1000000000000;(in britain) the number that is represented as a one followed by 12 zeros
neighborhood;the approximate amount of something (usually used prepositionally as in 'in the region of'). 'it was going to take in the region of two or three months to finish the job'. 'the price is in the neighborhood of 100'
moiety;one of two (approximately) equal parts
pole;a square rod of land
body count;a count of troops killed in an operation or time period: 'the daily body count increased as the war went on'
aliquot;an integer that is an exact divisor of some quantity. '4 is an aliquot part of 12'
due date;the date on which a financial obligation must be repaid
roomful;the quantity a room will hold
fourteen;the cardinal number that is the sum of thirteen and one
fourth part;one of four equal parts. 'a quarter of a pound'
xxvii;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-six and one
centare;a centare is 1/100th of an are
millivolt;a unit of potential equal to one thousandth of a volt
inning;a period of play in baseball during which each team has a turn at bat
pitcher;the quantity contained in a pitcher
imaginary part of a complex number;the part of a complex number that has the square root of -1 as a factor
shilling;a former monetary unit in great britain
unit of time;a unit for measuring time periods
500;the cardinal number that is the product of one hundred and five
kwanza;the basic unit of money in angola
lux;a unit of illumination equal to 1 lumen per square meter. 0.0929 foot candle
guinean franc;the basic unit of money in guinea
lea;a unit of length of thread or yarn
schilling;the basic unit of money in austria
zaire;the basic unit of money in zaire
dominican dollar;the basic unit of money in dominica
half hour;a half of an hour
couple;a small indefinite number. 'he's coming for a couple of days'
load;a quantity that can be processed or transported at one time. 'the system broke down under excessive loads'
coefficient of viscosity;a measure of the resistance to flow of a fluid under an applied force
central african republic franc;the basic unit of money in the central african republic
horsepower hour;a unit of work equal to the work done by one horsepower in one hour
play;(in games or plays or other performances) the time during which play proceeds. 'rain stopped play in the 4th inning'
forint;the basic unit of money in hungary
white meat;meat carved from the breast of a fowl
slews;a large number or amount. 'made lots of new friends'
likuta;100 makuta equal 1 zaire
deutsche mark;the basic unit of money in germany
smidgin;a tiny or scarcely detectable amount
hexad;the cardinal number that is the sum of five and one
micrometer;a metric unit of length equal to one millionth of a meter
driblet;a small quantity of liquid. 'one drop of each sample was analyzed'. 'any child with a drop of negro blood was legally a negro'
relative majority;(in an election with more than 2 options) the number of votes for the candidate or party receiving the greatest number (but less that half of the votes)
light second;the distance light travels in a vacuum in one second. approximately 300,000 kilometers
decalitre;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 10 liters
haitian centime;100 centimes equal 1 gourde
quartern;one of four equal parts. 'a quarter of a pound'
mb;a unit of information equal to one million (1,048,576) bytes
myg;one ten thousandth of a centner
lakh;the cardinal number that is the fifth power of ten
sq in;a unit of area equal to one inch by one inch square
micromillimeter;a metric unit of length equal to one billionth of a meter
pack;a large indefinite number. 'a battalion of ants'. 'a multitude of tv antennas'
wad;(often followed by 'of') a large number or amount or extent: 'a batch of letters'. 'a deal of trouble'. 'a lot of money'. 'it must have cost plenty'
micromicron;a metric unit of length equal to one trillionth of a meter
tugrik;the basic unit of money in mongolia
i;the smallest whole number or a numeral representing this number. 'he has the one but will need a two and three to go with it'. 'they had lunch at one'the smallest whole number or a numeral representing this number. 'he has the one but will need a two and three to go with it'. 'they had lunch at one'
bar absolute;the absolute unit of pressure equal to one dyne per square centimeter
egyptian pound;the basic unit of money in egypt. equal to 100 piasters
mi;a british unit of length equivalent to 1,853.18 meters (6,082 feet)
brunei dollar;the basic unit of money in brunei
barrowful;the quantity that a barrow will hold
yard;a unit of length equal to 3 feet. defined as 91.44 centimeters. originally taken to be the average length of a stride
g;a unit of information equal to one billion (1,000,000,000) bytes or one thousand megabytes
fluidram;a unit of capacity or volume in the apothecary system equal to one eighth of a fluid ounce
relative quantity;a quantity relative to some purpose
sri lankan monetary unit;monetary unit in sri lanka
bbl;any of various units of capacity. 'a barrel of beer is 31 gallons and a barrel of oil is 42 gallons'
apothecaries;a unit of apothecary weight equal to 480 grains or one twelfth of a pound
degree;a unit of temperature on a specified scale. 'the game was played in spite of the 40-degree temperature'
decaliter;a metric unit of volume or capacity equal to 10 liters
baud rate;(computer science) a data transmission rate (bits/second) for modems
megabit;one million bits
kobo;100 kobos equal 1 naira
21;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty and one
tala;the basic unit of money in western samoa
var;a unit of electrical power in an ac circuit equal to the power dissipated when 1 volt produces a current of 1 ampere
bahrain dinar;the basic unit of money in bahrain. equal to 1,000 fils
bucketful;the quantity contained in a bucket
drag coefficient;the ratio of the drag on a body moving through air to the product of the velocity and the surface area of the body
majority;(in an election) more than half of the votes
s;a unit of conductance equal to the reciprocal of an ohm
mi;a unit of length used in navigation. equivalent to the distance spanned by one second of arc in latitude. 1,852 meters
one c;ten 10s
step;a short distance. 'it's only a step to the drugstore'
second joint;the upper joint of the leg of a fowl
mv;a unit of potential equal to one thousandth of a volt
hungarian monetary unit;monetary unit in hungary
tankage;the quantity contained in (or the capacity of) a tank or tanks
cubic content unit;a unit of measurement of volume or capacity
absolute frequency;the number of observations in a given statistical category
decilitre;a metric unit of volume equal to one tenth of a liter
picofarad;a unit of capacitance equal to one trillionth of a farad
roentgen;a unit of radiation exposure. the dose of ionizing radiation that will produce 1 electrostatic unit of electricity in 1 cc of dry air
yuan;the basic unit of money in china
playing period;(in games or plays or other performances) the time during which play proceeds. 'rain stopped play in the 4th inning'
foot poundal;a unit of work equal to a force of one poundal moving through a distance of one foot
jarful;the quantity contained in a jar. 'he drank a jar of beer'
abvolt;a unit of potential equal to one-hundred-millionth of a volt
modulus;the absolute value of a complex number
niner;the cardinal number that is the sum of eight and one
whisky on the rocks;whiskey with ice
infinitude;an infinite quantity
fathom;a linear unit of measurement (equal to 6 feet) for water depth
metric grain;used for pearls or diamonds: 50 mg or 1/4 carat
radian;the unit of plane angle adopted under the system international d'unites. equal to the angle at the center of a circle subtended by an arc equal in length to the radius (approximately 57.295 degrees)
coulomb;a unit of electrical charge equal to the amount of charge transferred by a current of 1 ampere in 1 second
basket;the quantity contained in a basket
10000;the cardinal number that is the product of ten and one thousand
italian monetary unit;monetary unit in italy
28;the cardinal number that is the sum of twenty-seven and one
ban;100 bani equal 1 leu
chaldron;a british imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 36 bushels
au;a unit of length used for distances within the solar system. equal to the mean distance between the earth and the sun (approximately 93 million miles or 150 million kilometers)
peruvian monetary unit;monetary unit in peru
moroccan dirham;the basic unit of money in morocco. equal to 100 centimes
lek;the basic unit of money in albania
sillabub;spiced hot milk with rum or wine
qintar;100 qindarka equal 1 lek
quaternity;the cardinal number that is the sum of three and one
nine;the cardinal number that is the sum of eight and one
cuban peso;the basic unit of money in cuba. equal to 100 centavos
finger s breadth;the length of breadth of a finger used as a linear measure
energy unit;a unit of measurement for work
least;lowest or smallest in size or degree or importance: 'least said soonest mended'
