law of conservation of energy;the fundamental principle of physics that the total energy of an isolated system is constant despite internal changes
perquisite;a right reserved exclusively by a particular person or group (especially a hereditary or official right). 'suffrage was the prerogative of white adult males'
conservation of electricity;the principle that the total electric charge of a system remains constant despite changes inside the system
freedom of speech;guaranteed by the 1st amendment to the us constitution
freedom from involuntary servitude;guaranteed by the 13th amendment to the us constitution
mirror symmetry;parity is conserved in a universe in which the laws of physics are the same in a right-handed system of coordinates as in a left-handed system
parity;parity is conserved in a universe in which the laws of physics are the same in a right-handed system of coordinates as in a left-handed system
preemption;the right of a government to seize or appropriate something (as property)
title;an informal right to something: 'his claim on her attentions'. 'his title to fame'
conservation of energy;the fundamental principle of physics that the total energy of an isolated system is constant despite internal changes
franchise;a statutory right or privilege granted to a person or group by a government (especially the right to vote)
due;that which is deserved or owed: 'give the devil his due'
space reflection symmetry;parity is conserved in a universe in which the laws of physics are the same in a right-handed system of coordinates as in a left-handed system
right of election;in probate law: the legal right of a surviving spouse to elect to take either what the deceased spouse gave under the will or the share of the estate as set forth by statute
conservation of charge;the principle that the total electric charge of a system remains constant despite changes inside the system
husband wife privilege;neither spouse can divulge confidential communications from the other while they were married
pleasure principle;(psychoanalysis) the governing principle of the id. the principle that an infant seeks gratification and fails to distinguish fantasy from reality
control;"a relation of constraint of one entity (thing or person or group) by another. 'measures for the control of disease'. 'they instituted controls over drinking on campus'"
villeinage;tenure by which a villein held land
basic principle;principles from which other truths can be derived. 'first you must learn the fundamentals'. 'let's get down to basics'
open door;freedom of access. 'he maintained an open door for all employees'
title;an established or recognized right: 'a strong legal claim to the property'. 'he had no documents confirming his title to his father's estate'
right to due process;guaranteed by the 5th amendment to the us constitution. reaffirmed by the 14th amendment
entitlement;right granted by law or contract esp to benefits
rule of cy pres;a rule that when literal compliance is impossible the intention of a donor or testator should be carried out as nearly as possible
right of entry;the legal right to take possession of real estate in a peaceable manner
priest penitent privilege;the right of a clergyman to refuse to divulge confidential information received from a person during confession or similar exchanges
access;the right to obtain or make use of or take advantage of something (as services or membership)
prerogative;a right reserved exclusively by a particular person or group (especially a hereditary or official right). 'suffrage was the prerogative of white adult males'
civil right;right or rights belonging to a person by reason of citizenship including esp the fundamental freedoms and privileges guaranteed by the 13th and 14th amendments and subsequent acts of congress including the right to legal and social and economic equality
informer s privilege;the right of the government to refuse to reveal the identity of an informer
law of conservation of mass;a fundamental principle of classical physics that matter cannot be created or destroyed in an isolated system
restriction;a principle that limits the extent of something. 'i am willing to accept certain restrictions on my movements'
exclusive right;a right reserved exclusively by a particular person or group (especially a hereditary or official right). 'suffrage was the prerogative of white adult males'
attorney client privilege;the right of a lawyer to refuse to divulge confidential information from his client
right to liberty;the right to be free
eminent domain;the right of the state to take private property for public use. the 5th amendment of the us constitution requires that just compensation be made
bedrock;principles from which other truths can be derived. 'first you must learn the fundamentals'. 'let's get down to basics'
journalist s privilege;the right of a journalist to refuse to divulge sources of confidential information
right to the pursuit of happiness;the right to try to find happiness
entree;the right to enter
right of re entry;the legal right to resume possession (a right that was reserved when a former possession was parted with)
guideline;a rule or principle that provides guidance to appropriate behavior
privilege;(law) the right to refuse to divulge information obtained in a confidential relationship
conservation law;(physics) the maintenance of a certain quantities unchanged during chemical reactions or physical transformations
subscription right;the right of a shareholder in a company to subscribe to shares of a new issue of common stock before it is offered to the public
right to privacy;right to be free of unsanctioned intrusion
legal right;a right based in law
authorization;a grant of authority to the executive branch of government to spend money for specified purposes. 'authority for the program was renewed several times'
voting right;the right to vote. especially the right of a common shareholder to vote in person or by proxy on the affairs of a company
fundamentals;principles from which other truths can be derived. 'first you must learn the fundamentals'. 'let's get down to basics'
preemption;the right to purchase something in advance of others
copyhold;a medieval form of land tenure in england. a copyhold was a parcel of land granted to a peasant by the lord of the manor in return for agricultural services
physician patient privilege;the right of a physician to refuse to divulge confidential information from a patient without the consent of the patient
prevention;control by preventing the occurrence of something. 'money was allocated to study the cause and prevention of influenza'
grant;a right or privilege that has been granted
freedom of assembly;right peaceably to assemble and to petition the government for redress of grievances. guaranteed by the 1st amendment to the us constitution
natural law;"a rule or body of rules of conduct inherent in human nature and essential to or binding upon human society"
law of conservation of matter;a fundamental principle of classical physics that matter cannot be created or destroyed in an isolated system
freedom from self incrimination;guaranteed by the 5th amendment to the us constitution
privilege of the floor;the right to be admitted onto the floor of a legislative assembly while it is in session
door;anything providing a means of access (or escape). 'we closed the door to haitian immigrants'. 'education is the door to success'
right of privacy;a legal right (not explicitly provided in the us constitution) to be left alone. the right to live life free from unwarranted publicity
cy pres doctrine;a rule that when literal compliance is impossible the intention of a donor or testator should be carried out as nearly as possible
marital communications privilege;neither spouse can divulge confidential communications from the other while they were married
conservation of matter;a fundamental principle of classical physics that matter cannot be created or destroyed in an isolated system
freedom to bear arms;guaranteed by the 2nd amendment to the us constitution
pleasure unpleasure principle;(psychoanalysis) the governing principle of the id. the principle that an infant seeks gratification and fails to distinguish fantasy from reality
right to vote;a legal right guaranteed by the 15th amendment to the us constitution. guaranteed to women by the 19th amendment. 'american women got the vote in 1920'
suffrage;a legal right guaranteed by the 15th amendment to the us constitution. guaranteed to women by the 19th amendment. 'american women got the vote in 1920'
water right;right of access to water
working principle;a rule that is adequate to permit work to be done
freedom from search and seizure;guaranteed by the 4th amendment to the us constitution
equal opportunity;equivalent opportunities for employment regardless of race or color or sex or national origin
civil rights;right or rights belonging to a person by reason of citizenship including esp the fundamental freedoms and privileges guaranteed by the 13th and 14th amendments and subsequent acts of congress including the right to legal and social and economic equality
freehold;tenure by which land is held in fee simple or for life
equality before the law;the right to equal protection of the laws
human right;any basic right or freedom to which all human beings are entitled and in whose exercise a government may not interfere (including rights to life and liberty as well as freedom of thought and expression and equality before the law)
authority;a grant of authority to the executive branch of government to spend money for specified purposes. 'authority for the program was renewed several times'
pleasure pain principle;(psychoanalysis) the governing principle of the id. the principle that an infant seeks gratification and fails to distinguish fantasy from reality
basics;principles from which other truths can be derived. 'first you must learn the fundamentals'. 'let's get down to basics'
sound law;a law describing sound changes in the history of a language
cabotage;the exclusive right of a country to control the air traffic within its borders
logic;the principles that guide reasoning within a given field or situation. 'economic logic requires it'. 'by the logic of war'
divine law;a law that is believed to come directly from god
freedom from discrimination;freedom from discrimination on the basis of race or sex or nationality or religion or age. guaranteed by us federal laws
grimm s law;a sound law relating german consonants and consonants in other indo-european languages
conservation of mass;a fundamental principle of classical physics that matter cannot be created or destroyed in an isolated system
equal protection of the laws;guaranteed by the 14th amendment to the us constitution and by the due-process clause of the 5th amendment
claim;an informal right to something: 'his claim on her attentions'. 'his title to fame'
freedom of thought;the right to hold unpopular ideas
right to confront accusors;guaranteed by the 6th amendment to the us constitution
right to life;the right to live
conservation of parity;parity is conserved in a universe in which the laws of physics are the same in a right-handed system of coordinates as in a left-handed system
rule;"a principle or condition that customarily governs behavior. 'it was his rule to take a walk before breakfast'. 'short haircuts were the regulation'"
vote;a legal right guaranteed by the 15th amendment to the us constitution. guaranteed to women by the 19th amendment. 'american women got the vote in 1920'
patent right;the right granted by a patent. especially the exclusive right to an invention
tenure;the right to hold property. part of an ancient hierarchical system of holding lands
dictate;a guiding principle: 'the dictates of reason'
preemptive right;the right granting to shareholders the first opportunity to buy a new issue of stock. provides protection against dilution of the shareholder's ownership interest
access;the right to enter
right to speedy and public trial by jury;guaranteed by the 6th amendment to the us constitution
enjoyment;the exercise of a right to benefits. 'we were given the use of his boat'. 'deprived of the enjoyment of civil rights'
law;"a rule or body of rules of conduct inherent in human nature and essential to or binding upon human society"
rudiment;the elementary stages of any subject (usually plural). 'he mastered the rudiments of geometry'
right of search;the right of a belligerent to stop neutral ships on the high seas in wartime and search them
copyright;a document granting exclusive right to publish and sell literary or musical or artistic work
guidepost;a rule or principle that provides guidance to appropriate behavior
rule of thumb;a rule or principle that provides guidance to appropriate behavior
working rule;a rule that is adequate to permit work to be done
riparian right;right of access to water
freedom from double jeopardy;guaranteed by the 5th amendment to the us constitution
freedom of religion;guaranteed by the 1st amendment to the us constitution
quantification;a limitation imposed on the variables of a proposition (as by the quantifiers 'some' or 'all' or 'no')
principle;a basic truth or law or assumption: 'the principles of democracy'
right of first publication;a document granting exclusive right to publish and sell literary or musical or artistic work
first principle;the elementary stages of any subject (usually plural). 'he mastered the rudiments of geometry'
admittance;the right to enter
habeas corpus;right to obtain a writ of habeas corpus as protection against illegal imprisonment
floor;the parliamentary right to address an assembly. 'the chairman granted him the floor'
regulation;"a principle or condition that customarily governs behavior. 'it was his rule to take a walk before breakfast'. 'short haircuts were the regulation'"
freedom of the press;guaranteed by the 1st amendment to the us constitution
right to an attorney;guaranteed by the 6th amendment to the us constitution
conservation;(physics) the maintenance of a certain quantities unchanged during chemical reactions or physical transformations
civil liberty;fundamental individual right protected by law and expressed as immunity from unwarranted governmental interference
limitation;a principle that limits the extent of something. 'i am willing to accept certain restrictions on my movements'
privilege;a right reserved exclusively by a particular person or group (especially a hereditary or official right). 'suffrage was the prerogative of white adult males'
verner s law;a qualification of grimm's law
freedom from cruel and unusual punishment;guaranteed by the 8th amendment to the us constitution
right;"an abstract idea of that which is due to a person or governmental body by law or tradition or nature: 'they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness'. 'certain rights can never be granted to the government but must be kept in the hands of the people'- eleanor roosevelt. 'it is his right to say what he pleases'"
tao;(taoism) the ultimate principle of the universe
fundamental principle;principles from which other truths can be derived. 'first you must learn the fundamentals'. 'let's get down to basics'
conservation of momentum;the principle that the total linear momentum in a closed system is constant and is not affected by processes occurring inside the system
claim;an established or recognized right: 'a strong legal claim to the property'. 'he had no documents confirming his title to his father's estate'
use;the exercise of a right to benefits. 'we were given the use of his boat'. 'deprived of the enjoyment of civil rights'
advowson;the right in english law of presenting a nominee to a vacant ecclesiastical benefice
reality principle;(psychoanalysis) the governing principle of the ego. the principle that as a child grows it becomes aware of the real environment and the need to accommodate to it
land tenure;the right to hold property. part of an ancient hierarchical system of holding lands
cy pres;a rule that when literal compliance is impossible the intention of a donor or testator should be carried out as nearly as possible
