complementarity;the interrelation of reciprocity whereby one thing supplements or depends on the other. 'the complementarity of the sexes'
focal length;the distance from a lens to its focus
southwest;the compass point midway between south and west. at 225 degrees
opposition;"the relation between opposed entities"
relevance;the relation of something to the matter at hand
modification;the grammatical relation that exists when a word qualifies the meaning of the phrase
breathing space;sufficient room for easy breathing or movement: 'moved to the country to find breathing room'
northeast by north;the compass point that is one point north of northeast
irrelevancy;the lack of a relation of something to the matter at hand
paradigm;systematic arrangement of all the inflected forms of a word
se;the compass point midway between south and east. at 135 degrees
stands;a structure (often made of wood) where people can sit to watch an event (game or parade)
identity;an operator that leaves unchanged the element on which it operates. 'the identity under numerical multiplication is 1'
southwest by west;the compass point that is one point west of southwest
case agreement;agreement in grammatical case between words in the same construction
conjunction;the grammatical relation between linguistic units (words or phrases or clauses) that are connected by a conjunction
fact mood;a mood (grammatically unmarked) that represents the act or state as an objective fact
houseroom;space for accommodation in a house. 'i wouldn't give that table houseroom'
communication;a connection allowing access between persons or places. 'how many lines of communication can there be among four people?'. 'a secret passageway provided communication between the two rooms'
gradualness;the property possessed by a slope that is very gradual
connection;"a relation between things or events (as in the case of one causing the other or sharing features with it). 'there was a connection between eating that pickle and having that nightmare'"
anteriority;the quality of being in front or (in lower animals) toward the head
list;the property possessed by a line or surface that departs from the vertical. 'the tower had a pronounced tilt'. 'the ship developed a list to starboard'. 'he walked with a heavy inclination to the right'
horizontal;something that is oriented horizontally
modality;a classification of propositions on the basis of whether they claim necessity or possibility or impossibility
ground level;the height of the ground on which something stands: 'the base of the tower was below grade'
nearness;the spatial property resulting from a relatively small distance. 'the sudden closeness of the dock sent him into action'
antecedent;anything that precedes something similar in time. 'phrenology was an antecedent of modern neuroscience'
desynchronization;the relation that exists when things occur at unrelated times. 'the stimulus produced a desynchronizing of the brain waves'
mutual exclusiveness;the relation between propositions that cannot both be true at the same time
distance;the property created by the space between two objects or points
living space;space sought for occupation by a nation whose population is expanding
synchroneity;the relation that exists when things occur at the same time. 'the drug produces an increased synchrony of the brain waves'
contrast;the opposition or dissimilarity of things that are compared. 'in contrast to', 'by contrast'
south by east;the compass point that is one point east of due south
temporal relation;"a relation involving time"
superordination;the semantic relation of being superordinate or belonging to a higher rank or class
true;the property possessed by something that is in correct or proper alignment: 'out of true'
seating area;an area that includes seats for several people. 'there is seating for 40 students in this classroom'
point;any of 32 horizontal directions indicated on the card of a compass. 'he checked the point on his compass'
mode;verb inflections that express how the action or state is conceived by the speaker
desynchronisation;the relation that exists when things occur at unrelated times. 'the stimulus produced a desynchronizing of the brain waves'
synchronizing;the relation that exists when things occur at the same time. 'the drug produces an increased synchrony of the brain waves'
spatial relation;"the spatial property of a place where or way in which something is situated. 'the position of the hands on the clock'. 'he specified the spatial relations of every piece of furniture on the stage'"
conflict;opposition in a work of drama or fiction between characters or forces (especially an opposition that motivates the development of the plot). 'this form of conflict is essential to mann's writing'
symbiosis;the relation between two different kinds of organisms that are interdependent. each gains benefits from the other
active;the voice used to indicate that the subject of the verb is performing the action or causing the happening denoted by the verb
pertinency;relevance by virtue of being applicable to the matter at hand
comparison;"relation based on similarities and differences"
connectedness;"a relation between things or events (as in the case of one causing the other or sharing features with it). 'there was a connection between eating that pickle and having that nightmare'"
bond;a connection based on kinship or marriage or common interest: 'the shifting alliances within a large family'. 'their friendship constitutes a powerful bond between them'
synchronism;the relation that exists when things occur at the same time. 'the drug produces an increased synchrony of the brain waves'
restrictiveness;modification that makes the meaning more specific ('red hat' has a more specific meaning than 'hat')
composing;the spatial property resulting from the arrangement of parts in relation to each other and to the whole. 'harmonious composition is essential in a serious work of art'
nebn;the compass point that is one point north of northeast
sympathy;a relation of affinity or harmony between people. whatever affects one correspondingly affects the other. 'the two of them were in close sympathy'
interdependence;a reciprocal relation between interdependent individuals or groups
grade;the gradient of a slope or road or other surface: 'the road had a steep grade'
combat ceiling;altitude above which a plane cannot climb faster than a given rate
due west;the cardinal compass point that is a 270 degrees
nexus;the means of connection between things linked in series
meronymy;the semantic relation that holds between a part and the whole
weather side;the side toward the wind
way;space for movement. 'room to pass'. 'make way for': 'hardly enough elbow room to turn around'
weatherboard;the side toward the wind
stalls;(british) seating in the forward part of the main level of a theater
inapplicability;irrelevance by virtue of being inapplicable to the matter at hand
logical relation;"a relation between logical propositions"
bits per inch;(computer science) a measure of how densely information is packed on a storage medium
conditional relation;a logical relation between propositions p and q of the form 'if p then q'. if p is true then q cannot be false
antonymy;the semantic relation that holds between two words that can (in a given context) express opposite meanings
synchronization;the relation that exists when things occur at the same time. 'the drug produces an increased synchrony of the brain waves'
immateriality;complete irrelevance requiring no further consideration
time sharing;(computer science) the use of a central computer by many users simultaneously
imperative mood;a mood that expresses an intention to influence the listener's behavior
threshold function;a function that takes the value 1 if a specified function of the arguments exceeds a given threshold and 0 otherwise
east southeast;the compass point midway between east and southeast
nw;the compass point midway between north and west. at 315 degrees
seats;an area that includes seats for several people. 'there is seating for 40 students in this classroom'
concord;the determination of grammatical inflection on the basis of word relations
inclusion;the relation of comprising something. 'he admired the inclusion of so many ideas in such a short work'
inclination;the property possessed by a line or surface that departs from the vertical. 'the tower had a pronounced tilt'. 'the ship developed a list to starboard'. 'he walked with a heavy inclination to the right'
east;the cardinal compass point that is at 90 degrees
water level;the level of the surface of a body of water
component;something determined in relation to something that includes it. 'he wanted to feel a part of something bigger than himself'. 'i read a portion of the manuscript'. 'the smaller component is hard to reach'
alignment;the spatial property possessed by an arrangement or position of things in a straight line or in parallel lines
north;the cardinal compass point that is at 0 or 360 degrees
malposition;faulty position
nor  nor  east;the compass point that is midway between north and northeast
northernness;the property of being to the north
precipitousness;the property possessed by a slope that is very steep
elevation;angular distance above the horizon (especially of a celestial object)
mathematical relation;"a relation between mathematical expressions (such as equality or inequality)"
polarity;having an indicated pole (as the distinction between positive and negative electric charges). 'he got the polarity of the battery reversed'. 'charges of opposite sign'
limiting;the grammatical relation that exists when a word qualifies the meaning of the phrase
troponymy;the semantic relation of being a manner of does something
east northeast;the compass point midway between northeast and east
due south;the cardinal compass point that is at 180 degrees
number agreement;agreement in number between words in the same grammatical construction (e.g., between adjectives and the nouns they modify)
dress circle;a curved section or tier of seats in a hall or theater or opera house. usually the first tier above the orchestra. 'they had excellent seats in the dress circle'
imperfective;aspect without regard to the beginning or completion of the action of the verb
component part;something determined in relation to something that includes it. 'he wanted to feel a part of something bigger than himself'. 'i read a portion of the manuscript'. 'the smaller component is hard to reach'
posteriority;the quality of being toward the back or (in quadrupeds) toward the rear end
nwbn;the compass point that is one point north of northwest
sou  west;the compass point midway between south and west. at 225 degrees
hypernymy;the semantic relation of being superordinate or belonging to a higher rank or class
respect to;(usually preceded by 'with') relation of delimitation. 'he inquired with respect to the address'
yarder;something a given number of yards long. 'his drive was a 300-yarder'
intransitiveness;the grammatical relation created by an intransitive verb
w;the cardinal compass point that is a 270 degrees
south;the cardinal compass point that is at 180 degrees
bpi;(computer science) a measure of how densely information is packed on a storage medium
swbw;the compass point that is one point west of southwest
mutuality;a reciprocal relation between interdependent individuals or groups
gender agreement;agreement in grammatical gender between words in the same construction
seating room;an area that includes seats for several people. 'there is seating for 40 students in this classroom'
erectness;position at right angles to the horizon
e;the cardinal compass point that is at 90 degrees
sign;having an indicated pole (as the distinction between positive and negative electric charges). 'he got the polarity of the battery reversed'. 'charges of opposite sign'
sse;the compass point midway between south and southeast
implication;a relation implicated by virtue of involvement or close connection (especially an incriminating involvement). 'he was suspected of implication in several robberies'
east by south;the compass point that is one point south of due east
circle;a curved section or tier of seats in a hall or theater or opera house. usually the first tier above the orchestra. 'they had excellent seats in the dress circle'
inverse function;the function obtained by expressing the dependent variable of one function as the independent variable of another. f and g are inverse functions if f(x)=y and g(y)=x
ne;the compass point midway between north and east. at 45 degrees
piece;a distance. 'it is down the road a piece'
contiguousness;the attribute of being so near as to be touching
cold war;a state of political conflict using means short of armed warfare
grammatical relation;a linguistic relation established by grammar
compass point;any of 32 horizontal directions indicated on the card of a compass. 'he checked the point on his compass'
gradable opposition;an opposition that is capable of being graded
identity operator;an operator that leaves unchanged the element on which it operates. 'the identity under numerical multiplication is 1'
common mood;a mood (grammatically unmarked) that represents the act or state as an objective fact
materiality;relevance requiring careful consideration
north by west;the compass point that is one point west of due north
lebensraum;space sought for occupation by a nation whose population is expanding
height;elevation esp above sea level or the earth's surface
cosine;ratio of the adjacent side to the hypotenuse
composition;the spatial property resulting from the arrangement of parts in relation to each other and to the whole. 'harmonious composition is essential in a serious work of art'
mood;verb inflections that express how the action or state is conceived by the speaker
spatial arrangement;the property possessed by an array of things that have space between them
spread;a haphazard distribution in all directions
clash;a state of conflict between persons
dialectic;a contradiction of ideas that serves as the determining factor in their interaction. 'this situation created the inner dialectic of american history'
antipodal opposition;the relation of opposition along a diameter
ssw;the compass point midway between south and southwest
reverse;a relation of direct opposition. 'we thought sue was older than bill but just the reverse was true'
inflection;a change in the form of a word (usually by adding a suffix) to indicate a change in its grammatical function
subordinating conjunction;the subordination that occurs when a conjunction makes one linguistic unit a constituent of another
mutualness;a reciprocality of sentiments. 'the mutuality of their affection was obvious'
change;"a relational difference between states. especially between states before and after some event: 'he attributed the change to their marriage'"
incompatibility;the relation between propositions that cannot both be true at the same time
sea level;level of the ocean's surface esp that halfway between mean high and low tide. used as a standard in reckoning land elevation or sea depth
connexion;"a relation between things or events (as in the case of one causing the other or sharing features with it). 'there was a connection between eating that pickle and having that nightmare'"
link;the means of connection between things linked in series
northwest by north;the compass point that is one point north of northwest
mutual understanding;sympathy of each person for the other
distribution;the spatial property of being scattered about over an area or volume
magnetic north;the direction in which a compass needle points
copulative conjunction;the conjunctive relation of units that expresses the addition of their meanings
part to whole relation;the semantic relation that holds between a part and the whole
breathing room;sufficient room for easy breathing or movement: 'moved to the country to find breathing room'
abruptness;the property possessed by a slope that is very steep
sharing;using or enjoying something jointly with others
conjugation;the inflection of verbs
sebe;the compass point that is one point east of southeast
logical implication;a logical relation between propositions p and q of the form 'if p then q'. if p is true then q cannot be false
flux;(physics) the number of flux changes per unit area
n;the cardinal compass point that is at 0 or 360 degrees
slope;the property possessed by a line or surface that departs from the horizontal
orientation;position or alignment relative to points of the compass or other specific directions
west;the cardinal compass point that is a 270 degrees
opposition;a direction opposite to another
verticalness;position at right angles to the horizon
nor  east;the compass point midway between north and east. at 45 degrees
farness;the property of being remote
headway;vertical space available to allow easy passage under something
sebs;the compass point that is one point south of southeast
mileage;distance measured in miles
inverse;something inverted in sequence or character or effect. 'when the direct approach failed he tried the inverse'
function;a mathematical relation such that each element of one set is associated with at least one element of another set
trigonometric function;function of an angle expressed as a ratio of the sides of right-angled triangle containing the angle
imaginative comparison;the kind of mental comparison that is expressed in similes or metaphors or allegories
correlation;a reciprocal relation between two or more things
inflexion;a change in the form of a word (usually by adding a suffix) to indicate a change in its grammatical function
northeast;the compass point midway between north and east. at 45 degrees
direction;the spatial relation between something and the course along which it points or moves. 'he checked the direction and velocity of the wind'
whole to part relation;the semantic relation that holds between a whole and its parts
bleachers;an outdoor grandstand without a roof. patrons are exposed to the sun as linens are when they are bleached
leeward;the direction in which the wind is blowing
outwardness;the quality or state of being outside or directed toward or relating to the outside or exterior: 'the outwardness of the world'
adversative conjunction;the conjunctive relation of units that expresses the opposition of their meanings
northwest;the compass point midway between north and west. at 315 degrees
separation;the distance between things. 'fragile items require separation and cushioning'
communication;something that is communicated between people or groups
alliance;a connection based on kinship or marriage or common interest: 'the shifting alliances within a large family'. 'their friendship constitutes a powerful bond between them'
voice;(linguistics) the grammatical relation of the subject of a verb to the action that the verb denotes
mutual affection;sympathy of each person for the other
adjacency;the attribute of being so near as to be touching
qualifying;the grammatical relation that exists when a word qualifies the meaning of the phrase
elbow room;space for movement. 'room to pass'. 'make way for': 'hardly enough elbow room to turn around'
negation;the negative of the opposition
interrelation;"mutual or reciprocal relation or relatedness: 'interrelationships of animal structure and function'"
comprehension;the relation of comprising something. 'he admired the inclusion of so many ideas in such a short work'
proximity;the property of being close together
level;height above ground: 'the water reached ankle level'. 'the pictures were at the same level'
synonymousness;the semantic relation that holds between two words that can (in a given context) express the same meaning
attitude;position of aircraft or spacecraft relative to a frame of reference (the horizon or direction of motion)
exponential;a function in which an independent variable appears as an exponent
person agreement;agreement in person between pronouns and verbs
oppositeness;"the relation between opposed entities"
wnw;the compass point midway between west and northwest
point;a style in speech or writing that arrests attention and has a penetrating or convincing quality or effect
ebs;the compass point that is one point south of due east
map;a function such that for every element of one set there is a unique element of another set
sou  sou  west;the compass point midway between south and southwest
parquet;the main floor between the orchestra and the parquet_circle
pertinence;relevance by virtue of being applicable to the matter at hand
affinity;"a close connection marked by community of interests or similarity in nature or character: 'found a natural affinity with the immigrants'. 'felt a deep kinship with the other students'. 'anthropology's kinship with the humanities'"
south southwest;the compass point midway between south and southwest
north northwest;the compass point that is midway between north and northwest
sw;the compass point midway between south and west. at 225 degrees
durative aspect;the aspect of a verb that expresses its duration
windward;the direction from which the wind is coming
synonymity;the semantic relation that holds between two words that can (in a given context) express the same meaning
southeast;the compass point midway between south and east. at 135 degrees
reflexiveness;the coreferential relation between a reflexive pronoun and its antecedent
leaning;the property possessed by a line or surface that departs from the vertical. 'the tower had a pronounced tilt'. 'the ship developed a list to starboard'. 'he walked with a heavy inclination to the right'
desynchronizing;the relation that exists when things occur at unrelated times. 'the stimulus produced a desynchronizing of the brain waves'
concentration;the spatial property of being crowded together
swbs;the compass point that is one point south of southwest
nor  west;the compass point midway between north and west. at 315 degrees
perpendicularity;the relation of opposition between things at right angles
concatenation;the linking together of a consecutive series of symbols or events or ideas etc. 'it was cause by an improbable concatenation of circumstances'
propinquity;the property of being close together
sbe;the compass point that is one point east of due south
parasitism;the relation between two different kinds of organisms in which one receives benefits from the other by causing damage to it (usually not fatal damage)
rapport;relation of mutual understanding or trust between people
affine transformation;a transformation that is a combination of single transformations such as translation or rotation or reflection on an axis
clearance;vertical space available to allow easy passage under something
jussive mood;a mood that expresses an intention to influence the listener's behavior
sbw;the compass point that is one point west of due south
pitch;degree of deviation from a horizontal plane: 'the roof had a steep pitch'
interdependency;a reciprocal relation between interdependent individuals or groups
subjunctive mood;a mood that represent an act or state (not as a fact but) as contingent or possible
disunity;lack of unity (usually resulting from dissension)
nor  nor  west;the compass point that is midway between north and northwest
sine;ratio of the opposite side to the hypotenuse
coreference;the grammatical relation between two words that have a common referent
orthogonality;the relation of opposition between things at right angles
optative mood;a mood (as in greek or sanskrit) that expresses a wish or hope. expressed in english by modal verbs
ene;the compass point midway between northeast and east
cogency;persuasive relevance
contrary;exact opposition. 'public opinion to the contrary he is not guilty'
interrelatedness;"mutual or reciprocal relation or relatedness: 'interrelationships of animal structure and function'"
germaneness;pertinence by virtue of a close relation to the matter at hand
antipodal;the relation of opposition along a diameter
horizontality;the quality of being parallel to the horizon: 'houses with a pronounced horizontality'
ceiling;(meteorology) altitude of the lowest layer of clouds
reciprocity;"a relation of mutual dependence or action or influence"
correlativity;a reciprocal relation between two or more things
conflict;"a state of opposition between persons or ideas or interests. 'his conflict of interest made him ineligible for the post'. 'a conflict of loyalties'"
circular function;function of an angle expressed as a ratio of the sides of right-angled triangle containing the angle
dissemination;the property of being diffused or dispersed
linkage;an associative relation
unconnectedness;"the lack of a connection between things"
slant;degree of deviation from a horizontal plane: 'the roof had a steep pitch'
hour angle;the angular distance along the celestial equator from the observer's meridian to the hour circle of a given celestial body
applicability;relevance by virtue of being applicable to the matter at hand
far cry;distance estimated in terms of the audibility of a cry. 'it's a far cry from here'
misplacement;faulty position
inchoative aspect;aspect with regard to the beginning of the action of the verb
relation;an abstraction belonging to or characteristic of two entities or parts togetheran abstraction belonging to or characteristic of two entities or parts together
compactness;the spatial property of being crowded together
service ceiling;altitude above which a plane cannot climb faster than a given rate
farawayness;the property of being remote
contradiction;opposition between two conflicting forces or ideas
wsw;the compass point midway between west and southwest
optative;a mood (as in greek or sanskrit) that expresses a wish or hope. expressed in english by modal verbs
span;the distance or interval between two points
altitude;angular distance above the horizon (especially of a celestial object)
coincidence;the quality of occupying the same position or area in space. 'he waited for the coincidence of the target and the cross hairs'
southernness;the property of being to the south
commensalism;the relation between two different kinds of organisms when one receives benefits from the other without damaging it
interrogative;some linguists consider interrogative sentences to constitute a mood
leeward side;the side sheltered from the wind
wbs;the compass point that is one point south of due west
ese;the compass point midway between east and southeast
gentleness;the property possessed by a slope that is very gradual
correspondence;a function such that for every element of one set there is a unique element of another set
placement;the spatial property of the way in which something is placed: 'the arrangement of the furniture'. 'the placement of the chairs'
orthogonal opposition;the relation of opposition between things at right angles
compass north;the direction in which a compass needle points
nne;the compass point that is midway between north and northeast
west by south;the compass point that is one point south of due west
downgrade;the property possessed by a slope or surface that descends
tangent;ratio of the opposite to the adjacent side
declarative;a mood (grammatically unmarked) that represents the act or state as an objective fact
linguistic relation;"a relation between linguistic forms or constituents"
southeast by south;the compass point that is one point south of southeast
sou  east;the compass point midway between south and east. at 135 degrees
inverse;(math) one of a pair of numbers whose product is 1: the reciprocal of 2/3 is 3/2. the inverse of 7 is 1/7
nnw;the compass point that is midway between north and northwest
point of view;the spatial property of the position from which something is observed
camera angle;the point of view of a camera
quarter;one of the four major division of the compass. 'the wind is coming from that quarter'
indicative;a mood (grammatically unmarked) that represents the act or state as an objective fact
contradictoriness;the relation that exists when opposites cannot coexist
coordination;the grammatical relation of two constituents having the same grammatical form
contradictory;two propositions are contradictories if both cannot be true (or both cannot be false) at the same time
depression;angular distance below the horizon (especially of a celestial object)
relatedness;a particular manner of connectedness. 'the relatedness of all living things'
enantiomorphism;the relation of opposition between crystals or molecules that are reflections of one another
parquet circle;at the rear of the main floor (beneath the balconies)
hour;distance measured by the time taken to cover it. 'we live an hour from the airport'. 'its just 10 minutes away'
rising slope;the property possessed by a slope or surface that rises
subordination;the semantic relation of being subordinate or belonging to a lower rank or class
north northeast;the compass point that is midway between north and northeast
uprightness;position at right angles to the horizon
disjunctive conjunction;the conjunctive relation of units that expresses the disjunction of their meanings
involvement;a connection of inclusion or containment. 'he escaped involvement in the accident'. 'there was additional involvement of the liver and spleen'
contrariety;the relation between contraries
parterre;at the rear of the main floor (beneath the balconies)
interval;the distance between things. 'fragile items require separation and cushioning'
flux density;(physics) the number of flux changes per unit area
mutual opposition;a relation between two opposite attributes or tendencies. 'he viewed it as a balanced polarity between good and evil'
contrary;a relation of direct opposition. 'we thought sue was older than bill but just the reverse was true'
south southeast;the compass point midway between south and southeast
semantic relation;a relation between meanings
bearing;relevant relation or interconnection: 'those issues have no bearing on our situation'
inwardness;the quality or state of being inward or internal: 'the inwardness of the body's organs'
indicative mood;a mood (grammatically unmarked) that represents the act or state as an objective fact
minute;distance measured by the time taken to cover it. 'we live an hour from the airport'. 'its just 10 minutes away'
anaphoric relation;the relation between an anaphor and its antecedent
north by east;the compass point that is one point east (clockwise) of due north
sou  sou  east;the compass point midway between south and southeast
nbw;the compass point that is one point west of due north
wheelbase;the distance from the center of a car's front wheel to the rear axle
columniation;(architecture) the arrangement of columns (especially freestanding columns) in a structure
disagreement;"a conflict of people's opinions or actions or characters"a conflict of people's opinions or actions or characters
gradient;a graded change in the magnitude of some physical quantity or dimension
opposite;something inverted in sequence or character or effect. 'when the direct approach failed he tried the inverse'
antithesis;exact opposite. 'his theory is the antithesis of mine'
imperfective aspect;aspect without regard to the beginning or completion of the action of the verb
transitiveness;the grammatical relation created by a transitive verb
windward side;the side toward the wind
transformation;a function that changes the position or direction of the axes of a coordinate system
covered stand;the part of the seating at a racecourse or stadium consisting of tiers with rows of individual seats that are under a protective roof
upgrade;the property possessed by a slope or surface that rises
hyperfocal distance;the distance in front of a lens that is focused at infinity beyond which all objects are well defined and clear
seating;an area that includes seats for several people. 'there is seating for 40 students in this classroom'
tiered seats;seating that is arranged in sloping tiers so that spectators in the back can see over the heads of those in front
secant;ratio of the hypotenuse to the adjacent side
rise;the property possessed by a slope or surface that rises
imperative;a mood that expresses an intention to influence the listener's behavior
steepness;the property possessed by a slope that is very steep
bridge;something resembling a bridge in form or function: 'his letters provided a bridge across the centuries'
durative;the aspect of a verb that expresses its duration
exponential function;a function in which an independent variable appears as an exponent
milage;distance measured in miles
altitude;elevation esp above sea level or the earth's surface
perfective;the aspect of a verb that expresses a completed completed action
remove;degree of figurative distance or separation: 'just one remove from madness' or 'it imitates at many removes a shakespearean tragedy'returns a new sequence equivalent to sequence with occurrences of item removed. the original sequence is not modified. (the destructive counterpart of remove is delete.)
due north;the cardinal compass point that is at 0 or 360 degrees
divergency;degree of spatial separation
yardage;distance measured in the aggregate number of yards. 'what is the yardage of this golf course?'
aspect;the beginning or duration or completion or repetition of the action of a verb
occlusion;(dentistry) the normal spatial relation of the teeth when the jaws are closed
west northwest;the compass point midway between west and northwest
mathematical function;a mathematical relation such that each element of one set is associated with at least one element of another set
balance;harmonious arrangement or relation of parts or elements within a whole (as in a design): 'in all perfectly beautiful objects there is found the opposition of one part to another and a reciprocal balance'- john ruskin
dissension;"a conflict of people's opinions or actions or characters"a conflict of people's opinions or actions or characters
cardinal compass point;one of the four main compass points
isometry;equality of elevation above sea level
arrangement;the spatial property of the way in which something is placed: 'the arrangement of the furniture'. 'the placement of the chairs'
complementation;the grammatical relation of a word or phrase to a predicate
irrelevance;the lack of a relation of something to the matter at hand
apposition;a grammatical relation between a word and a noun phrase that follows. 'rudolph the red-nosed reindeer' is an example of apposition'
relevancy;the relation of something to the matter at hand
clearance;the distance by which one thing clears another. the space between them
tilt;the property possessed by a line or surface that departs from the vertical. 'the tower had a pronounced tilt'. 'the ship developed a list to starboard'. 'he walked with a heavy inclination to the right'
west by north;the compass point that is one point north of due west
reference to;(usually preceded by 'with') relation of delimitation. 'he inquired with respect to the address'
to leeward;the side sheltered from the wind
spacing;the property possessed by an array of things that have space between them
mean distance;the arithmetic mean of the maximum and minimum distances of a celestial body (satellite or secondary star) from its primary
west southwest;the compass point midway between west and southwest
externality;the quality or state of being outside or directed toward or relating to the outside or exterior: 'the outwardness of the world'
marginality;the property of being marginal or on the fringes
inconsistency;the relation between propositions that cannot both be true at the same time
south by west;the compass point that is one point west of due south
misalignment;the spatial property of things that are not properly aligned
lean;the property possessed by a line or surface that departs from the vertical. 'the tower had a pronounced tilt'. 'the ship developed a list to starboard'. 'he walked with a heavy inclination to the right'
cotangent;ratio of the adjacent to the opposite side
operator;(mathematics) a symbol that represents a function from functions to functions. 'the integral operator'
complementarity;a relation between two opposite states or principles that together exhaust the possibilities
ebn;the compass point that is one point north of due east
opposite;a relation of direct opposition. 'we thought sue was older than bill but just the reverse was true'
gravity gradient;a gradient in the gravitational forces acting on different parts of a nonspherical object. 'the gravity gradient of the moon causes the ocean tides on earth'
southeast by east;the compass point that is one point east of southeast
declension;the inflection of nouns and pronouns and adjectives
dispersion;the spatial property of being scattered about over an area or volume
slot;a position in a grammatical linguistic construction in which a variety of alternative units are interchangeable. 'he developed a version of slot grammar'
implication;a logical relation between propositions p and q of the form 'if p then q'. if p is true then q cannot be false
declarative mood;a mood (grammatically unmarked) that represents the act or state as an objective fact
synchronisation;the relation that exists when things occur at the same time. 'the drug produces an increased synchrony of the brain waves'
modality;verb inflections that express how the action or state is conceived by the speaker
relation to;(usually preceded by 'with') relation of delimitation. 'he inquired with respect to the address'
ungradable opposition;an opposition that has no intermediate grade. either one or the other
perfective aspect;the aspect of a verb that expresses a completed completed action
elevation;distance of something above a reference point
absolute ceiling;the maximum altitude at which an air plane can maintain horizontal flight
divergence;degree of spatial separation
way;the property of distance in general. 'it's a long way to moscow'. (colloquial) 'he went a long ways'
ceiling;maximum altitude at which a plane can fly (under specified conditions)
progressive aspect;the aspect of a verb that expresses its on-going action
gradient;the property possessed by a line or surface that departs from the horizontal
ways;the property of distance in general. 'it's a long way to moscow'. (colloquial) 'he went a long ways'
synchronicity;the relation that exists when things occur at the same time. 'the drug produces an increased synchrony of the brain waves'
closeness;the spatial property resulting from a relatively small distance. 'the sudden closeness of the dock sent him into action'
reciprocal;(math) one of a pair of numbers whose product is 1: the reciprocal of 2/3 is 3/2. the inverse of 7 is 1/7
friction;a state of conflict between persons
scatter;a haphazard distribution in all directions
hyponymy;the semantic relation of being subordinate or belonging to a lower rank or class
subordination;the grammatical relation of a modifying word or phrase to its head
northwest by west;the compass point that is one point west of northwest
wbn;the compass point that is one point north of due west
mirror image relation;the relation of opposition between crystals or molecules that are reflections of one another
linear operator;an operator that obeys the distributive law: a(f+g) = af + ag (where f and g are function)
room;space for movement. 'room to pass'. 'make way for': 'hardly enough elbow room to turn around'
agreement;the determination of grammatical inflection on the basis of word relations
mutuality;a reciprocality of sentiments. 'the mutuality of their affection was obvious'
reviewing stand;a stand from which a parade or military force can be reviewed
proportion;harmonious arrangement or relation of parts or elements within a whole (as in a design): 'in all perfectly beautiful objects there is found the opposition of one part to another and a reciprocal balance'- john ruskin
reciprocality;"a relation of mutual dependence or action or influence"
due east;the cardinal compass point that is at 90 degrees
intransitivity;the grammatical relation created by an intransitive verb
active voice;the voice used to indicate that the subject of the verb is performing the action or causing the happening denoted by the verb
denseness;the spatial property of being crowded together
diametrical opposition;the relation of opposition along a diameter
s;the cardinal compass point that is at 180 degrees
verticality;position at right angles to the horizon
remoteness;the property of being remote
tertium quid;some third thing similar to two opposites but distinct from both
contrary;two propositions are contraries if both cannot be true but both can be false
interrelationship;"mutual or reciprocal relation or relatedness: 'interrelationships of animal structure and function'"
regard to;(usually preceded by 'with') relation of delimitation. 'he inquired with respect to the address'
wavelength;the distance (measured in the direction of propagation) between two points in the same phase in consecutive cycles of a wave
coordinating conjunction;the coordination by conjunction of linguistic units of the same status
nwbw;the compass point that is one point west of northwest
vertical;something that is oriented vertically
reflexivity;the coreferential relation between a reflexive pronoun and its antecedent
identity element;an operator that leaves unchanged the element on which it operates. 'the identity under numerical multiplication is 1'
parity;(mathematics) a relation between a pair of integers: if both integers are odd or both are even they have the same parity. if one is odd and the other is even they have different parity
unrelatedness;the lack of any particular manner of connectedness
east by north;the compass point that is one point north of due east
diffuseness;the spatial property of being spread out over a wide area or through a large volume
trim;attitude of an aircraft in flight when allowed to take its own orientation
leap;the distance leaped (or to be leaped). 'a leap of 10 feet'
temperature gradient;change in temperature as a function of distance (especially altitude)
nbe;the compass point that is one point east (clockwise) of due north
subjunctive;a mood that represent an act or state (not as a fact but) as contingent or possible
centrality;the property of being central
density;the spatial property of being crowded together
parking;space in which a vehicle can be parked. 'there is plenty of parking behind the store'
portion;something determined in relation to something that includes it. 'he wanted to feel a part of something bigger than himself'. 'i read a portion of the manuscript'. 'the smaller component is hard to reach'
asynchrony;the relation that exists when things occur at unrelated times. 'the stimulus produced a desynchronizing of the brain waves'
openness;without obstructions to passage or view: 'the openness of the prairies'
el;angular distance above the horizon (especially of a celestial object)
stand;a structure (often made of wood) where people can sit to watch an event (game or parade)
holonymy;the semantic relation that holds between a whole and its parts
antipode;direct opposite. 'quiet: an antipode to focused busyness'
north;the direction in which a compass needle points
headroom;vertical space available to allow easy passage under something
alt;angular distance above the horizon (especially of a celestial object)
grandstand;the part of the seating at a racecourse or stadium consisting of tiers with rows of individual seats that are under a protective roof
social relation;a relation between living organisms. esp between people
extraneousness;unrelatedness by virtue of falling outside the matter at hand
standing room;a place for spectators to stand only
chronology;arrangement of events in time
kinship;"a close connection marked by community of interests or similarity in nature or character: 'found a natural affinity with the immigrants'. 'felt a deep kinship with the other students'. 'anthropology's kinship with the humanities'"
orchestra;main floor in a theater
southwest by south;the compass point that is one point south of southwest
synchrony;the relation that exists when things occur at the same time. 'the drug produces an increased synchrony of the brain waves'
ringside seat;first row of seats. has an unobstructed view of a boxing or wrestling ring
forerunner;anything that precedes something similar in time. 'phrenology was an antecedent of modern neuroscience'
asynchronism;the relation that exists when things occur at unrelated times. 'the stimulus produced a desynchronizing of the brain waves'
mode;a classification of propositions on the basis of whether they claim necessity or possibility or impossibility
cosecant;ratio of the hypotenuse to the opposite side
position;"the spatial property of a place where or way in which something is situated. 'the position of the hands on the clock'. 'he specified the spatial relations of every piece of furniture on the stage'"
interrogative mood;some linguists consider interrogative sentences to constitute a mood
contiguity;the attribute of being so near as to be touching
diffusion;the property of being diffused or dispersed
angular position;relation by which any position with respect to any other position is established
to windward;the side toward the wind
difference;a significant change. 'the difference in her is amazing'. 'his support made a real difference'
polar opposition;an opposition that can be graded between two extremes or poles
nebe;the compass point that is one point east of northeast
throw;the distance that something can be thrown. 'it is just a stone's throw from here'
rake;degree of deviation from a horizontal plane: 'the roof had a steep pitch'
passive;the voice used to indicate that the subject of the verb is the recipient (not the source) of the action denoted by the verb
synonymy;the semantic relation that holds between two words that can (in a given context) express the same meaning
direct contrast;the opposition or dissimilarity of things that are compared. 'in contrast to', 'by contrast'
grade;the height of the ground on which something stands: 'the base of the tower was below grade'
mapping;a function such that for every element of one set there is a unique element of another set
function;"a relation such that one thing is dependent on another. 'height is a function of age'. 'price is a function of supply and demand'"
passive voice;the voice used to indicate that the subject of the verb is the recipient (not the source) of the action denoted by the verb
part;something determined in relation to something that includes it. 'he wanted to feel a part of something bigger than himself'. 'i read a portion of the manuscript'. 'the smaller component is hard to reach'
sea room;space for maneuver at sea
polarity;a relation between two opposite attributes or tendencies. 'he viewed it as a balanced polarity between good and evil'
ringside;first row of seats. has an unobstructed view of a boxing or wrestling ring
northeast by east;the compass point that is one point east of northeast
transitivity;the grammatical relation created by a transitive verb
