coiffure;the arrangement of the hair (especially a woman's hair)
capsule;a dry dehiscent seed vessel or the spore-containing structure of e.g. mosses
silicle;short broad silique occurring in some cruciferous plants
wing;an addition that extends a main building
quill;any of the larger wing or tail feathers of a bird
twist;a hairdo formed by braiding or twisting the hair
body covering;any covering for the body or a body part
shaving;a thin fragment or slice (especially of wood) that has been shaved from something
lambskin;skin of a sheep or goat prepared for writing on
fraction;a small piece or item forming part of a whole
rawhide;untanned hide especially of cattle. cut in strips it is used for whips and ropes
panhandle;the handle of a pan
crimp;a lock of hair that has been artificially waved or curled
piece;a separate part of a whole: 'and important piece of the evidence'
ponytail;a hair style that draws the hair back so that it hangs down in back of the head like a pony's tail
outlet box;(electricity) the metal box designed for connections to a wiring system
stock;the handle end of some implements or tools. 'he grabbed the cue by the stock'
artificial additive;a substance added to food to improve its flavor or appearance or shelf-life
constituent;an abstract part of something: 'jealousy was a component of his character'. 'two constituents of a musical composition are melody and harmony'. 'the grammatical elements of a sentence'. 'a key factor in her success'. 'humor: an effective ingredient of a speech'
hairdo;the arrangement of the hair (especially a woman's hair)
bearskin;the pelt of a bear (sometimes used as a rug)
hairpiece;a covering or bunch of human or artificial hair used for disguise or adornment
flinders;a small thin sharp bit or wood or glass or metal. 'he got a splinter in his finger'. 'it flew into flinders'
acicula;"a needle-like part or structure of a plant or animal or crystal. as a spine or bristle or crystal"
squirrel;the fur of a squirrel
juncture;the shape or manner in which things come together and a connection is made
aftershaft;a supplementary feather (usually small) on the underside of the base of the shaft of some feathers in some birds
splint;a thin sliver of wood. 'he lit the fire with a burning splint'
plume;the light horny waterproof structure forming the external covering of birds
toothbrush;(informal) slang terms for a mustache
leaf;hinged or detachable flat section (as of a table or door)
sheath;an enveloping structure or covering enclosing an animal or plant organ or part
heel;the part that fits the heel
corpus;"the main part of an organ or other bodily structure"
scrap;a small fragment of something broken off from the whole. 'a bit of rock caught him in the eye'
scurf;(botany) a covering that resembles scales or bran that covers some plant parts
afro wig;a wig that gives the appearance of an afro hairdo
spare part;an extra component of a machine or other apparatus
bastard wing;tuft of small stiff feathers on the first digit of a bird's wing
sundog;"a bright spot on the parhelic circle. caused by diffraction by ice crystals"
otter;the fur of an otter
vamp;the front part of the upper of a shoe
attraction;a characteristic that provides pleasure and attracts people
rabbit;the fur of a rabbit
sphere;a particular aspect of life or activity. 'he was helpless in an important sector of his life'
crop;the stock or handle of a whip
spare;an extra component of a machine or other apparatus
braid;a hairdo formed by braiding or twisting the hair
sclerite;hard plate or element of the exoskeleton of some arthropods
lapin;the fur of a rabbit
brow;the arch of hair above each eye
spanish needles;the seed of bur marigolds
quarter;the part of a shoe or boot covering the heel and joining the vamp
secondary sex characteristic;the genetically determined sex characteristics that are not functionally necessary for reproduction (pitch of the voice and body hair and musculature)
eleuthra bark;aromatic bark of cascarilla. used as a tonic and for making incense
kiss curl;a spiral curl plastered on the forehead or cheek
scalp;the skin that covers the top of the head. 'they wanted to take his scalp as a trophy'
pipefitting;threaded pieces of pipe for joining pipes together
phellem;(botany) outer tissue of bark. a protective layer of dead cells
theca;a case or sheath especially a pollen sac or moss capsule
insert;(film) a still inserted and interrupting the action. (broadcasting) a local announcement inserted into a network broadcast
external;outward features. 'he enjoyed the solemn externals of religion'
handle;the part of an object designed to be held in order to use or move it
scurf;a thin flake of dead epidermis shed from the surface of the skin
esophagogastric junction;the junction between the esophagous and the stomach epithelium
sickle feather;one of the long curved tail feathers of a rooster
silique;narrow elongated seed capsule peculiar to the family cruciferae
chignon;a roll of hair worn at the nape of the neck
portion;"something less than the whole of a human artifact: 'the rear part of the house'. 'glue the two parts together'"
cutout;a part that is cut out or is intended to be cut out
scapular;a feather covering the shoulder of a bird
hair ball;a compact mass of hair in the stomach of an animal formed as a result of licking fur
fish scale;scale of the kind that covers the bodies of fish
appendicle;a small appendage
softener;something added to increase softness
ligan;goods (or wreckage) on the sea bed that is attached to a buoy so that it can be recovered
endocarp;inner usually woody layer of the pericarp or a fruit
connection;"a connecting shape"
division;"one of the portions into which something is regarded as divided and which together constitute a whole: 'the written part of the exam'. 'the finance section of the company'. 'the bbc's engineering division'"
ell;an extension at the end and at right angles to the main building
investment;outer layer or covering of an organ or part or organism
subdivision;a part of a part. i.e. a part of something already divided
saddle;a piece of leather across the instep of a shoe
elongation;an addition to the length of something
dandruff;loose scales shed from the scalp
pericarp;the ripened and variously modified walls of a plant ovary
false hair;a covering or bunch of human or artificial hair used for disguise or adornment
cilium;any of the short curved hairs that grow from the edges of the eyelids
phragmacone;the thin conical chambered internal shell (either straight or curved) of a belemnite
incrustation;a hard outer layer that covers something
armour;tough more-or-less rigid protective covering of an animal or plant
hold;the part of an object designed to be held in order to use or move it
permanent;a series of waves in the hair made by applying heat and chemicals
tegument;a natural protective covering of the body. site of the sense of touch. 'your skin is the largest organ of your body'
undercoat;thick soft fur lying beneath the longer and coarser guard hair
encrustation;a hard outer layer that covers something
primary;one of the main flight feathers projecting along the outer edge of a bird's wing
chittem bark;dried bark of the cascara buckthorn used as a laxative
postiche;a covering or bunch of human or artificial hair used for disguise or adornment
counter;the part that fits the heel
straightaway;a straight segment of a roadway or racecourse
broadtail;the fur of a very young karakul lamb
department;a specialized sphere of knowledge. 'baking is not my department'. 'his work established a new department of literature'
shell;the exterior covering of a bird's egg
bract;a modified leaf or leaflike part just below and protecting an inflorescence
lemma;the lower and stouter of the two glumes immediately enclosing the floret in most gramineae
reducer;joins two pipes of different diameter
canella bark;highly aromatic inner bark of the canella winterana used as a condiment and a tonic
eiderdown;down of the eider duck
bob;a hair style for women and children. a short haircut all around
accessory;a supplementary component
stop;(music) a knob on an organ that is pulled to change the sound quality from the organ pipes. 'the organist pulled out all the stops'
flattop;a closely cropped haircut. usually for men
grip;the part of an object designed to be held in order to use or move it
joint;the shape or manner in which things come together and a connection is made
supplement;a supplementary component
soup strainer;(informal) slang terms for a mustache
armor;tough more-or-less rigid protective covering of an animal or plant
handle bars;a large bushy moustache (with hair growing sometimes down the sides of the mouth)
jesuit s bark;medicinal bark of cinchona trees. source of quinine and quinidine
shoe leather;leather used to make shoes
nub;"a small piece. 'a nub of coal' or 'a stub of a pencil'"
forelock;a lock of a horse's mane that grows forward between the ears
omphalos;"scar where the umbilical cord was attached"
scraping;a fragment scraped off of something and collected (usually plural). 'they collected blood scrapings for analysis'
vertex;the point of intersection of lines or the point opposite the base of a figure
bit;a small fragment of something broken off from the whole. 'a bit of rock caught him in the eye'
rug;informal term for a toupee
mane;long coarse hair growing from the crest of the animal's neck
white cinnamon;highly aromatic inner bark of the canella winterana used as a condiment and a tonic
pinion;any of the larger wing or tail feathers of a bird
spark gap;a space between two high-potential terminals
test;a hard outer covering as of some amoebas and sea urchins
cinnamon bark;aromatic bark used as a spice
pelt;body covering of a living animal
pellicle;thin protective membrane in some protozoa
crush;leather that has had its grain pattern accentuated
eyebrow;the arch of hair above each eye
pageboy;a smooth hair style with the ends of the hair curled inward
clypeus;a shield-like plate on the front of an insect's head
imperial;a small tufted beard worn by emperor napoleon iii
slot;(computers) a socket in a microcomputer that will accept a plug-in circuit board
chamois;a soft suede leather formerly from the sheep of the chamois antelope but now from sheepskin
piece of leather;a piece of leather
electric outlet;a place in a wiring system where current can be taken to run electrical devices
join;the shape or manner in which things come together and a connection is made
side whiskers;beard grown down the side of a man's face in front of the ears (especially when the rest of the beard is shaved off)
curve;curved segment
counter;piece of leather forming the back of a shoe or boot
crust;a hard outer layer that covers something
sunspot;"a cooler darker spot appearing periodically on the surface of the sun. associated with a strong magnetic field"
calf;fine leather from the skin of a calf
peruke;wig for men fashionable in 17th-l8th centuries
doorhandle;a knob used to release the catch when opening a door (often called 'doorhandle' in great britain)
toupe;a small hairpiece to cover partial baldness
exocarp;outermost layer of the pericarp of fruits as the skin of a peach or grape
pel;(computer science) the smallest discrete element of an image or picture on a crt screen (usually a single-colored dot). 'the greater the number of pixels per inch the greater the resolution'
receptacle;an electrical (or electronic) fitting that is connected to a source of power and equipped to receive an insert
underfur;thick soft fur lying beneath the longer and coarser guard hair
computer hardware;the mechanical, magnetic, electronic, and electrical, devices making up a computer system
power point;(british) a wall socket
butt end;thick end of the handle
wave;a hairdo that creates undulations in the hair
goatskin;the hide of a goat
mustache;an unshaved growth of hair on the upper lip. 'he looked younger after he shaved off his mustache'
beaver;the soft brown fur of the beaver
carapace;hard outer covering or case of certain organisms such as arthropods and turtles
quill feather;any of the larger wing or tail feathers of a bird
prepuce;a fold of skin covering the tip of the penis
fur;the dressed hairy coat of a mammal
cork;outer bark of the cork oak. used for stoppers for bottles etc.
expansion slot;(computers) a socket in a microcomputer that will accept a plug-in circuit board
mezereum;the dried bark of the shrub mezereon
chip;a small fragment of something broken off from the whole. 'a bit of rock caught him in the eye'
pubic hair;hair growing in the pubic area
nubbin;a small nub (especially an undeveloped fruit or ear of corn)
extension;an addition that extends a main building
hair;any of the cylindrical filaments characteristically growing from the epidermis of a mammal and covering the body or parts of it
sheepskin;skin of a sheep or goat prepared for writing on
section;one of several pieces or parts that fit with others to constitute a whole object: 'a section of a fishing rod'. 'metal sections were used below ground'. 'finished the final segment of the road'
part;"something less than the whole of a human artifact: 'the rear part of the house'. 'glue the two parts together'"
flare;"a shape that spreads outward. 'the skirt had a wide flare'"
leopard;the pelt of a leopard
tappa;thin fibrous bark of the paper mulberry and pturus_albidus
peridium;outer layer of the spore-bearing organ in many fungi
buckskin;a soft yellowish suede leather originally from deerskin but now usually from sheepskin
cinnamon bark;aromatic bark of saigon cinnamon used medicinally as a carminative
cordovan;a fine leather originally made in cordoba spain
hide;the dressed skin of an animal (especially a large animal)
cinder;a fragment of incombustible matter left after a wood or coal or charcoal fire
clamshell;the shell of a clam
whit leather;a leather that has been treated with alum and/or salt
fleece;outer coat of esp. sheep and yaks
paring;a thin fragment or slice (especially of wood) that has been shaved from something
beard;the hair growing on the lower part of a man's face
cornhusk;the husk of an ear of corn
node;a connecting point at which several lines come together
distinctive feature;an odd or unusual characteristic
kidskin;soft smooth leather from the hide of a young goat. 'kid gloves'
pod;the vessel that contains the seeds of a plant (not the seeds themselves)
whiskers;the hair growing on the lower part of a man's face
section;a very thin slice (of tissue or mineral or other substance) for examination under a microscope. 'sections from the left ventricle showed diseased tissue'
alula;scale-like structure between the base of the wing and the halter of a two-winged fly
length;a section of something that is long and narrow. 'a length of timber'. 'a length of tubing'
addition;a component that is added to something to improve it. 'the addition of a bathroom was a major improvement'. 'the addition of cinammon improved the flavor'
involucre;a highly conspicuous bract or bract pair or ring of bracts at the base of an inflorescence
hub;the central part of a car wheel (or fan or propeller etc) through which the shaft or axle passes
tapa;thin fibrous bark of the paper mulberry and pturus_albidus
auto accessory;an accessory for an automobile
part;"one of the portions into which something is regarded as divided and which together constitute a whole: 'the written part of the exam'. 'the finance section of the company'. 'the bbc's engineering division'"
agnail;a loose narrow strip of skin near the base of a fingernail. tearing it produces a painful sore that is easily infected
hackle;long slender feather on the necks of e.g. turkeys and pheasants
prepuce;a fold of skin covering the tip of the clitoris
junction;the shape or manner in which things come together and a connection is made
hangnail;a loose narrow strip of skin near the base of a fingernail. tearing it produces a painful sore that is easily infected
magnolia;dried bark of various magnolias. used in folk medicine
toupee;a small hairpiece to cover partial baldness
calyculus;a group of bracts simulating a calyx as in a carnation or hibiscus
ooze leather;a very soft leather made from the skins of calves and having a suede finish on the flesh side
dado;the part of a pedestal between the base and the surbase
case;an enveloping structure or covering enclosing an animal or plant organ or part
crew cut;a closely cropped haircut. usually for men
floral envelope;collective term for the outer parts of a flower consisting of the calyx and corolla and enclosing the stamen and carpel
chammy;a soft suede leather formerly from the sheep of the chamois antelope but now from sheepskin
spark;a small fragment of a burning substance thrown out by burning material or by friction
suede;leather with a napped surface
bur;seed vessel having hooks or prickles
somite;one of a series of similar body segments into which some animals are divided longitudinally
foreskin;a fold of skin covering the tip of the penis
broomstick;the handle of a broom
calycle;a group of bracts simulating a calyx as in a carnation or hibiscus
greenbelt;a belt of parks or rural land surrounding a town or city
ember;a hot glowing or smouldering fragment of wood or coal left from a fire
buff;bare skin. 'in the buff'
cowskin;leather from the skin of a cow
rifle butt;the butt end of a rifle
sac;a case or sheath especially a pollen sac or moss capsule
buff;a soft thick undyed leather from the skins of e.g. buffalo or oxen
fleece;tanned skin of a sheep with the fleece left on. used for clothing
shell;the hard usually fibrous outer layer of some fruits especially nuts
spit curl;a spiral curl plastered on the forehead or cheek
foible;the weaker half of a sword's blade from the forte to the tip
shell;hard outer covering or case of certain organisms such as arthropods and turtles
glume;small dry membranous bract found in inflorescences of gramineae and cyperaceae
intersection;a point where lines intersect
angostura bark;the bitter bark of a south american tree. used in medicines and liqueurs and bitters
drop leaf;a hinged leaf on a table that can be raised and supported by a bracket
curvature;"(medical) a curving or bending. often abnormal. 'curvature of the spine'"
articulation;the shape or manner in which things come together and a connection is made
raccoon;the fur of the north american racoon
fur;dense coat of fine silky hairs on an mammals e.g. cat or seal or weasel
snip;a small piece of anything (especially a piece that has been snipped off)
straight;a straight segment of a roadway or racecourse
cover;"a natural object that covers or envelops. 'the fox was flushed from its cover'"
cowhide;leather from the skin of a cow
skin graft;a piece of skin taken from a donor area and surgically grafted at the site of an injury or burn
chinchilla;the expensive silvery gray fur of the chinchilla
switch;a tress of false hair used by women to give shape to a coiffure
wash leather;piece of chamois used for cleaning and polishing
moustache;an unshaved growth of hair on the upper lip. 'he looked younger after he shaved off his mustache'
aspect;a distinct feature or element in a problem. 'he studied every facet of the question'
handgrip;the part of an object designed to be held in order to use or move it
nutshell;the shell around the kernel of a nut
golden fleece;in greek mythology, a fleece of gold owned by the king of colchis and guarded in a sacred grove by a dragon. recovered by jason and the argonauts
lorica;a hard protective sheath as secreted by certain protoctists e.g.
cascara;dried bark of the cascara buckthorn used as a laxative
cod;the vessel that contains the seeds of a plant (not the seeds themselves)
primary quill;one of the main flight feathers projecting along the outer edge of a bird's wing
primary sex character;the genetically determined sex characteristics bound up with reproduction (genitals and organs of reproduction)
pelt;the dressed hairy coat of a mammal
handhold;something to hold onto
omphalus;"scar where the umbilical cord was attached"
beaver;a full beard
animal skin;the tissue forming the outer covering of a fur-bearing animal
sex characteristic;those characteristics (both anatomical and psychological) that are strongly associated with one sex relative to the other
queue;a braid of hair at the back of the head
pompadour;a hair style in which the front hair is swept up from the forehead
landside;a side piece opposite the moldboard
perm;a series of waves in the hair made by applying heat and chemicals
computer accessory;an accessory for a computer
face fungus;the hair growing on the lower part of a man's face
stretch;(racing) a straight section of a racetrack
row;a long continuous strip (usually running horizontally). 'a mackerel sky filled with rows of clouds'. 'rows of barbed wire protected the trenches'
facet;a distinct feature or element in a problem. 'he studied every facet of the question'
alula;tuft of small stiff feathers on the first digit of a bird's wing
hand;one of two sides of an issue. 'on the one hand..., but on the other hand...'
goatee;a small chin beard trimmed into a point. named for its resemblance to a goat's beard
parchment;skin of a sheep or goat prepared for writing on
mantle;anything that covers. 'there was a blanket of snow'
lambskin;the skin of a lamb with the wool still on
cowlick;a tuft of hair that grows in a different direction from the rest of the hair and usually will not lie flat
appendage;a part that is joined to something larger
hair style;the arrangement of the hair (especially a woman's hair)
bitstock;the stock of a tool used for turning a drilling bit
cinchona bark;medicinal bark of cinchona trees. source of quinine and quinidine
husk;outer membranous covering of some fruits or seeds
guard hair;coarse hairs that form the outer fur and protect the underfur of certain mammals
canella;highly aromatic inner bark of the canella winterana used as a condiment and a tonic
burr;seed vessel having hooks or prickles
pipe fitting;threaded pieces of pipe for joining pipes together
persian lamb;the fur of a karakul lamb
permanent wave;a series of waves in the hair made by applying heat and chemicals
covering;"a natural object that covers or envelops. 'the fox was flushed from its cover'"
head of hair;growth of hair covering the scalp of a human being
eyelash;any of the short curved hairs that grow from the edges of the eyelids
peasecod;husk of a pea. edible in some garden peas
bang;a fringe of banged hair (cut short squarely across the forehead)
mesothelium;epithelium originating in the embryonic mesoderm. lines the primordial body cavity
fox;the gray or reddish-brown fur of a fox
indusium;a membrane enclosing and protecting the developing spores especially that covering the sori of a fern
head;"a rounded compact mass. 'the head of a comet'"
forelock;a lock of hair growing (or falling) over the forehead
characteristic;"a prominent aspect of something: 'the map showed roads and other features'. 'generosity is one of his best characteristics'"
sliver;a small thin sharp bit or wood or glass or metal. 'he got a splinter in his finger'. 'it flew into flinders'
boll;the rounded seed-bearing capsule of a cotton or flax plant
stub;"a small piece. 'a nub of coal' or 'a stub of a pencil'"
segment;one of several pieces or parts that fit with others to constitute a whole object: 'a section of a fishing rod'. 'metal sections were used below ground'. 'finished the final segment of the road'
element;an abstract part of something: 'jealousy was a component of his character'. 'two constituents of a musical composition are melody and harmony'. 'the grammatical elements of a sentence'. 'a key factor in her success'. 'humor: an effective ingredient of a speech'
sex character;those characteristics (both anatomical and psychological) that are strongly associated with one sex relative to the other
extension;an addition to the length of something
ink cartridge;a cartridge that contains ink and can be replaced
component;an abstract part of something: 'jealousy was a component of his character'. 'two constituents of a musical composition are melody and harmony'. 'the grammatical elements of a sentence'. 'a key factor in her success'. 'humor: an effective ingredient of a speech'
pea pod;husk of a pea. edible in some garden peas
cassia bark;aromatic bark of the cassia-bark tree. less desirable as a spice than ceylon cinnamon bark
annexe;an addition that extends a main building
brush cut;a short haircut with hairs standing up like a brush
hudson seal;muskrat fur dressed to simulate sealskin
scalp lock;a long tuft of hair left on top of the shaven head
tanbark;bark rich in tannin. bruised and cut in pieces to use for tanning. spent tanbark used as a ground covering
cutis;a natural protective covering of the body. site of the sense of touch. 'your skin is the largest organ of your body'
picture element;(computer science) the smallest discrete element of an image or picture on a crt screen (usually a single-colored dot). 'the greater the number of pixels per inch the greater the resolution'
middle;an intermediate part or section: 'a whole is that which has beginning, middle, and end'- aristotle
jetsam;the floating wreckage of a ship
patent leather;leather with a hard glossy surface
dewlap;a hanging fold of loose skin on an elderly person's neck
attention;a general interest that leads people to want to know more. 'she was the center of attention'
envelope;a natural covering (as by a fluid). 'the spacecraft detected an envelope of gas around the comet'
forte;the stronger half of a sword blade between the hilt and the foible
cuticle;the hard protective layer covering the body of many invertebrates especially arthropods
morocco;a soft pebble-grained leather made from goatskin. used for shoes and book bindings etc.
helve;the handle of a weapon or tool
plait;a hairdo formed by braiding or twisting the hair
metamere;one of a series of similar body segments into which some animals are divided longitudinally
exoskeleton;the exterior protective or supporting structure or shell of many animals (especially invertebrates) including bony or horny parts such as nails or scales or hoofs
beard;hairy growth on or near the face of certain mammals
white leather;a leather that has been treated with alum and/or salt
basket hilt;a hilt with a basket-shaped guard for the hand
belt;"an elongated region where a specific condition is found. 'a belt of high pressure'"
russia leather;a smooth leather tanned with willow, birch, or oak, and scented on the flesh side with birch oil
wall socket;a place in a wiring system where current can be taken to run electrical devices
thatch;hair resembling thatched roofing material
mutton chop;beard grown down the side of a man's face in front of the ears (especially when the rest of the beard is shaved off)
wreckage;the remains of something that has been wrecked. 'they searched the wreckage for signs of survivors'
scale;a thin flake of dead epidermis shed from the surface of the skin
peruvian bark;medicinal bark of cinchona trees. source of quinine and quinidine
moustachio;a large bushy moustache (with hair growing sometimes down the sides of the mouth)
annex;an addition that extends a main building
intersection point;a point where lines intersect
brickbat;a fragment of brick used as a weapon
gas fitting;the fitting (pipes or valves or meters) that convey gas from the gas main to the gas fixtures of a building
fitting;a small and often standardized accessory to a larger system
stock;the handle of a handgun or the butt end of a rifle or shotgun or part of the support of a machine gun or artillery gun. 'the rifle had been fitted with a special stock'
fuzz;the first beard of an adolescent boy
connexion;"a connecting shape"
hardware;the mechanical, magnetic, electronic, and electrical, devices making up a computer system
van allen belt;a belt of charged particles (resulting from cosmic rays) above the earth trapped by the earth's magnetic field
foretop;a lock of a horse's mane that grows forward between the ears
factor;an abstract part of something: 'jealousy was a component of his character'. 'two constituents of a musical composition are melody and harmony'. 'the grammatical elements of a sentence'. 'a key factor in her success'. 'humor: an effective ingredient of a speech'
feather;the light horny waterproof structure forming the external covering of birds
coat;growth of hair or wool or fur covering the body of an animal
matchwood;fragments of wood. 'it was smashed into matchwood
hairball;a compact mass of hair in the stomach of an animal formed as a result of licking fur
bulb;a rounded part of a cylindrical instrument (usually at one end). 'the bulb of a syringe'
vellum;fine parchment prepared from the skin of a young animal e.g. a calf or lamb
bellybutton;"scar where the umbilical cord was attached"
contour feather;feathers covering the body of an adult bird and determining its shape
leather;an animal skin made smooth and flexible by removing the hair and tanning
knob;a round handle
surface;a superficial aspect as opposed to the real nature of something. 'it was not what it appeared to be on the surface'
attractive feature;a characteristic that provides pleasure and attracts people
afro;a rounded thickly curled hairdo
gunstock;the handle of a handgun or the butt end of a rifle or shotgun or part of the support of a machine gun or artillery gun. 'the rifle had been fitted with a special stock'
audio;the sound elements of television
fragment;"a piece broken off of something else. 'a fragment of rock'"
periwig;wig for men fashionable in 17th-l8th centuries
hilt;the handle of a sword or dagger
crystal;a crystalline element used in various electronic devices
finger wave;a wave made with the fingers
bush;hair growing in the pubic area
piezoelectric crystal;a crystal that can be used as a transducer
eggshell;the exterior covering of a bird's egg
snipping;a small piece of anything (especially a piece that has been snipped off)
cigarette butt;small part of a cigarette that is left after smoking
sable;the expensive dark brown fur of the marten
shard;a broken piece of a brittle artifact
beggar ticks;the seed of bur marigolds
shell;a rigid covering that envelops an object. 'the satellite is covered with a smooth shell of ice'
ingredient;an abstract part of something: 'jealousy was a component of his character'. 'two constituents of a musical composition are melody and harmony'. 'the grammatical elements of a sentence'. 'a key factor in her success'. 'humor: an effective ingredient of a speech'
bible belt;southern united states. where protestant fundamentalism is dominant
spurious wing;tuft of small stiff feathers on the first digit of a bird's wing
snippet;a small piece of anything (especially a piece that has been snipped off)
scale;a flattened rigid plate forming part of the body covering of many animals
phragmocone;the thin conical chambered internal shell (either straight or curved) of a belemnite
chammy leather;a soft suede leather formerly from the sheep of the chamois antelope but now from sheepskin
seedcase;the vessel that contains the seeds of a plant (not the seeds themselves)
crushed leather;leather that has had its grain pattern accentuated
saddle feather;a long narrow feather on the back (saddle) of a domestic fowl
beehive;a hairdo resembling a beehive
false calyx;a group of bracts simulating a calyx as in a carnation or hibiscus
elbow;a sharp bend in a road or river
greenway;a belt of parks or rural land surrounding a town or city
module;a self-contained unit or item that is used in combination with other units
lagend;goods (or wreckage) on the sea bed that is attached to a buoy so that it can be recovered
mane;growth of hair covering the scalp of a human being
end;a final part or section: 'we have given it at the end of the section since it involves the calculus'. 'start at the beginning and go on until you come to the end'
segment;"one of the parts into which something naturally divides: 'a segment of an orange'"
oyster shell;a shell of an oyster
mustachio;a large bushy moustache (with hair growing sometimes down the sides of the mouth)
tailpiece;added to extend the length of something
clinker;a fragment of incombustible matter left after a wood or coal or charcoal fire
cartridge;a module designed to be inserted into a larger piece of equipment. 'he loaded a cartridge of fresh tape into the tape deck'
kid;soft smooth leather from the hide of a young goat. 'kid gloves'
down;soft fine feathers
imperial beard;a small tufted beard worn by emperor napoleon iii
flight feather;any of the larger wing or tail feathers of a bird
horsehide;leather from the hide of a horse
sausage curl;a fat sausage-shaped curl
perianth;collective term for the outer parts of a flower consisting of the calyx and corolla and enclosing the stamen and carpel
cut in;(film) a still inserted and interrupting the action. (broadcasting) a local announcement inserted into a network broadcast
peculiarity;an odd or unusual characteristic
umbilicus;"scar where the umbilical cord was attached"
mock sun;"a bright spot on the parhelic circle. caused by diffraction by ice crystals"
tartar;an incrustation that forms on the teeth and gums
toe;the part of footwear that covers the toes
protective covering;tough natural covering of some organisms
chinese cinnamon;aromatic bark of the cassia-bark tree. less desirable as a spice than ceylon cinnamon bark
shammy leather;a soft suede leather formerly from the sheep of the chamois antelope but now from sheepskin
wig;artificial head of human or synthetic hair
sideburn;beard grown down the side of a man's face in front of the ears (especially when the rest of the beard is shaved off)
feature;"a prominent aspect of something: 'the map showed roads and other features'. 'generosity is one of his best characteristics'"
bilocular capsule;a capsule divided into two cells or compartments
angostura;the bitter bark of a south american tree. used in medicines and liqueurs and bitters
epicarp;outermost layer of the pericarp of fruits as the skin of a peach or grape
integument;an outer protective covering such as a cuticle or seed coat or rind or shell
fleck;a small fragment of something broken off from the whole. 'a bit of rock caught him in the eye'
pin curl;a curl of hair made by dampening a strand of hair and curling it and holding the curl with a clip or bobby pin
scour;"a place that is scoured (especially by running water)"
cascara sagrada;dried bark of the cascara buckthorn used as a laxative
chamois leather;a soft suede leather formerly from the sheep of the chamois antelope but now from sheepskin
butt;the small unused part of something (especially the end of a cigarette that is left after smoking)
potsherd;a broken piece of pottery
burnside;beard grown down the side of a man's face in front of the ears (especially when the rest of the beard is shaved off)
shammy;a soft suede leather formerly from the sheep of the chamois antelope but now from sheepskin
excellence;something in which something or some one excels: 'the use of herbs is one of the excellences of french cuisine'
appurtenance;a supplementary component
food additive;a substance added to food to improve its flavor or appearance or shelf-life
fragment;a broken piece of a brittle artifact
improver;a component that is added to something to improve it. 'the addition of a bathroom was a major improvement'. 'the addition of cinammon improved the flavor'
splinter;a small thin sharp bit or wood or glass or metal. 'he got a splinter in his finger'. 'it flew into flinders'
subsection;a part of a part. i.e. a part of something already divided
electric receptacle;a place in a wiring system where current can be taken to run electrical devices
tress;a hairdo formed by braiding or twisting the hair
bark;tough protective covering of the woody stems and roots of trees and other woody plants
curl;a strand or cluster of hair
swan s down;down of the swan
marabou;downy feathers of marabou storks used for trimming garments
sherd;a broken piece of a brittle artifact
socket;a receptacle into which an electric device can be inserted
brace;the stock of a tool used for turning a drilling bit
seal;the pelt or fur (especially the underfur) of a seal. 'a coat of seal'
parhelion;"a bright spot on the parhelic circle. caused by diffraction by ice crystals"
link;"a connecting shape"
doorknob;a knob used to release the catch when opening a door (often called 'doorhandle' in great britain)
slice;"a thin flat piece cut off of some object"
secondary sex character;the genetically determined sex characteristics that are not functionally necessary for reproduction (pitch of the voice and body hair and musculature)
deerskin;leather from the hide of a deer
medullary sheath;a layer of myelin encasing (and insulating) medullated nerve fibers
stub;the small unused part of something (especially the end of a cigarette that is left after smoking)
saddle hackle;a long narrow feather on the back (saddle) of a domestic fowl
lock;a strand or cluster of hair
wall plug;a place in a wiring system where current can be taken to run electrical devices
constituent;an artifact that is one of the individual parts of which a composite entity is made up. especially a part that can be separated from or attached to a system: 'spare components for cars'. 'a component or constituent element of a system'
mink;the expensive fur of a mink
adjuvant;an additive that enhances the effectiveness of medical treatment
pistol grip;a handle (as of a gun or saw) shaped like the butt of a pistol
supercilium;the arch of hair above each eye
sarcomere;one of the segments into which a myofibril is divided
cascarilla bark;aromatic bark of cascarilla. used as a tonic and for making incense
grizzle;a grey wig
primary feather;one of the main flight feathers projecting along the outer edge of a bird's wing
mocha;soft suede glove leather from goatskin
ingredient;a component of a mixture or compound
beginning;the first part or section of something: 'it was a dark and stormy night' is a hackneyed beginning for a story'
hull;dry outer covering of a fruit or seed or nut
sheepskin;tanned skin of a sheep with the fleece left on. used for clothing
ermine;the expensive white fur of the ermine
scute;large bony or horny plate as on an armadillo or turtle
upper;the part of a shoe or boot above the sole
bracteole;a small bract
exuviae;cast-off skins or coverings of various organisms during ecdysis
cinnamon;aromatic bark used as a spice
plumage;the light horny waterproof structure forming the external covering of birds
conditioner;a substance used in washing (clothing or hair) to make things softer
sealskin;the pelt or fur (especially the underfur) of a seal. 'a coat of seal'
flotsam;the floating wreckage of a ship
box calf;black calfskin leather tanned with chromium salts
navel;"scar where the umbilical cord was attached"
encolure;the mane of a horse
tape cartridge;a cartridge containing magnetic tape. for use with audio or video recorders or computer systems
attachment;a supplementary part or accessory
sweetwood bark;aromatic bark of cascarilla. used as a tonic and for making incense
thick skin;skin that is very thick (as an elephant or rhinoceros)
macula;"a cooler darker spot appearing periodically on the surface of the sun. associated with a strong magnetic field"
quiff;a prominent forelock (especially one brushed upward from the forehead)
scallop shell;a shell of a scallop
roan;a soft sheepskin leather that is colored and finished to resemble morocco. used in bookbinding
natural covering;"a natural object that covers or envelops. 'the fox was flushed from its cover'"
point;(british) a wall socket
blanket;anything that covers. 'there was a blanket of snow'
pixel;(computer science) the smallest discrete element of an image or picture on a crt screen (usually a single-colored dot). 'the greater the number of pixels per inch the greater the resolution'
shell;the hard largely calcareous covering of a mollusc
fag end;the frayed end of a length of cloth or rope
haft;the handle of a weapon or tool
section;a segment of a citrus fruit. 'he ate a section of the orange'
doeskin;soft leather from deerskin or lambskin
pigtail;a braid of hair on either side of the face
section;"one of the portions into which something is regarded as divided and which together constitute a whole: 'the written part of the exam'. 'the finance section of the company'. 'the bbc's engineering division'"
homestretch;the straight segment of a racetrack leading to the finish line
flowering glume;the lower and stouter of the two glumes immediately enclosing the floret in most gramineae
jetsam;the part of a ship's equipment or cargo that is thrown overboard to lighten the load in a storm
seashell;the shell of a marine organism
winter s bark;aromatic bark having tonic and stimulant properties
chittam bark;dried bark of the cascara buckthorn used as a laxative
sliver;a thin fragment or slice (especially of wood) that has been shaved from something
seed vessel;the ripened and variously modified walls of a plant ovary
myelin sheath;a layer of myelin encasing (and insulating) medullated nerve fibers
afterthought;an addition that was not included in the original plan. 'the garage was an afterthought'
hide;body covering of a living animal
roach;the butt of a marijuana cigarette
outlet;a place in a wiring system where current can be taken to run electrical devices
point of intersection;a point where lines intersect
astrakhan;the fur of young lambs
electric socket;a socket into which a lightbulb can be inserted
cuticula;the outer body wall of an insect
additive;something added to enhance food or gasoline or paint or medicine
whorl;a strand or cluster of hair
slough;any outer covering that can be shed or cast off (such as the cast-off skin of a snake)
alligator;leather made from alligator's hide
theca;outer sheath of the pupa of certain insects
muskrat;the brown fur of a muskrat
bend;curved segment
headful;a covering over the surface of your head. 'a headful of tight curls'. 'a headful of lice'
corn belt;midwestern united states (iowa illinois indiana). excellent for raising corn and corn-fed livestock
haircut;the style in which hair haw been cut
skin;a natural protective covering of the body. site of the sense of touch. 'your skin is the largest organ of your body'
flake;a small fragment of something broken off from the whole. 'a bit of rock caught him in the eye'
wool;outer coat of esp. sheep and yaks
sector;a particular aspect of life or activity. 'he was helpless in an important sector of his life'
corner;"a projecting part that is corner-shaped. 'he knocked off the corners'"
butt;thick end of the handle
asteroid belt;the region of interplanetary space between mars and jupiter where most asteroids are found
video;the visual elements of television
element;an artifact that is one of the individual parts of which a composite entity is made up. especially a part that can be separated from or attached to a system: 'spare components for cars'. 'a component or constituent element of a system'
ringlet;a strand or cluster of hair
strip;"a relatively long narrow piece of something. 'he felt a flat strip of muscle'"
coal;a hot glowing or smouldering fragment of wood or coal left from a fire
calculus;an incrustation that forms on the teeth and gums
siliqua;narrow elongated seed capsule peculiar to the family cruciferae
badge;any feature that is regarded as a sign of status (a particular power or quality or rank). 'wearing a tie was regarded as a badge of respectability'
pigskin;leather from the skin of swine
endothelium;an epithelium of mesoblastic origin. a thin layer of flattened cells that lines the inside of some body cavities
calfskin;fine leather from the skin of a calf
point;a geometric element that has position but no extension. 'a point is defined by its coordinates'
fell;the dressed skin of an animal (especially a large animal)
lagan;goods (or wreckage) on the sea bed that is attached to a buoy so that it can be recovered
base;the principal ingredient of a mixture. 'glycerinated gelatin is used as a base for many ointments'. 'he told the painter that he wanted a yellow base with just a hint of green'. 'everything she cooked seemed to have rice as the base'
side;an aspect of something (as contrasted with some other implied aspect). 'he was on the heavy side'. 'he is on the purchasing side of the business'. 'it brought out his better side'
cigar butt;small part of a cigar that is left after smoking
component;an artifact that is one of the individual parts of which a composite entity is made up. especially a part that can be separated from or attached to a system: 'spare components for cars'. 'a component or constituent element of a system'
calypter;scale-like structure between the base of the wing and the halter of a two-winged fly
primary sex characteristic;the genetically determined sex characteristics bound up with reproduction (genitals and organs of reproduction)
spathe;a conspicuous bract surrounding or subtending a spadix or other inflorescence
squama;a protective structure resembling a scale
epithelium;membranous tissue covering internal organs and other internal surfaces of the body
epicalyx;a group of bracts simulating a calyx as in a carnation or hibiscus
skin;body covering of a living animal
cork;(botany) outer tissue of bark. a protective layer of dead cells
