field;a set of elements such that addition and multiplication are commutative and associative and multiplication is distributive over addition and there are two elements 0 and 1. 'the set of all rational numbers is a field'
set;"an abstract collection of numbers or symbols. 'the set of prime numbers is infinite'"
closed interval;an interval that includes its endpoints
null set;a set that is empty. a set with no members
null space;a space that contains no points. and empty space
solution;the set of values that give a true statement when substituted into an equation
abelian group;a group that satisfies the commutative law
sub interval;an interval that is included in another interval
subgroup;(mathematics) a subset (that is not empty) of a mathematical group
open interval;an interval that does not include its endpoints
commutative group;a group that satisfies the commutative law
root;the set of values that give a true statement when substituted into an equation
bounded interval;an interval that includes its endpoints
unbounded interval;an interval that does not include its endpoints
euclidean space;a space in which euclid's axioms and definitions apply. a metric space that is linear and finite-dimensional
hilbert space;a metric space that is linear and complete and (usually) infinite-dimensional
subset;a set whose members are members of another set. a set contained within another set
domain;the set of values of the independent variable for which a function is defined
subspace;a space that is contained within another space
metric space;a set of points such that for every pair of points there is a nonnegative real number called their distance that is symmetric and satisfies the triangle inequality
group;a set that is closed, associative, has an identity element and every element has an inverse
topological space;(mathematics) any set of points that satisfy a set of postulates of some kind. 'assume the vector space is finite dimensional'
space;(mathematics) any set of points that satisfy a set of postulates of some kind. 'assume the vector space is finite dimensional'
intersection;a point or set of points common to two or more geometric configurations
interval;a set containing all points (or all real numbers) between two given endpoints
scalar field;a field of scalars
origin;the point of intersection of coordinate axes. where the values of the coordinates are all zeroreturns the coordinates of the upper-left point in the window's content region.
mathematical group;a set that is closed, associative, has an identity element and every element has an inverse
