police court;a court that has power to prosecute for minor offenses and to bind over for trial in a superior court anyone accused serious offenses
business sector;business concerns collectively. 'government and business could not agree'
cardinalate;cardinals collectively
civil service;government workers. usually hired on the basis of competitive examinations
sector;a body of people who form part of society or economy. 'the public sector'
consistory;a church tribunal or governing body
class;a body of students who graduate together: 'the class of '97'. 'she was in my year at hoehandle high'
duet;a pair who associate with one another. 'the engaged couple'. 'an inseprable twosome'
gallery;spectators at a golf or tennis match
rap group;a gathering of people holding a rap session
house of representatives;the lower legislative house of the us congress
moot court;a mock court where law students argue hypothetical cases
triumvirate;a group of three men responsible for public administration or civil authority
supreme court;the highest federal court in the us. has final appellate jurisdiction and has jurisdiction over all other courts in the nation
pair;two people considered as a unit
bachelor party;stag party held for a bachelor (usually on the night before he is married)
sixsome;six people considered as a unit
world court;a court established to settle disputes between members of the united nations
house;the audience gathered together in a theatre or cinema. 'the house applauded'. 'he counted the house'
crossroads;a community of people smaller than a village
special jury;a jury whose members are selected for special knowledge for a case involving complicated issues
star chamber;a former english court that became notorious for its arbitrary methods and severe punishments
medical profession;the body of individuals who practice medicine
building;the occupants of a building. 'the entire building complained about the noise'
room;the people who are present in a room. 'the whole room was cheering'
sacred college;(roman catholic church) the body of cardinals who advise the pope and elect new popes
court;the family and retinue of a sovereign or prince
university;the body of faculty and students of a university
government officials;people elected or appointed to administer a government
cast of characters;the actors in a play
swarm;a moving crowd
state supreme court;the highest court in most states of the us
octet;eight people considered as a unit
legislative council;a unicameral legislature
foursome;four people considered as a unit. 'he joined a barbershop quartet'. 'the foursome teed off before 9 a.m.'
townsfolk;the people living in a municipality smaller than a city. 'the whole town cheered the team'
dance;a party of people assembled for dancing
snarl up;a number of vehicles blocking one another until they can scarcely move
vote;a body of voters who have the same interests. 'he failed to get the black vote'
normal school;a two-year school for training elementary teachers
quartette;four people considered as a unit. 'he joined a barbershop quartet'. 'the foursome teed off before 9 a.m.'
pastorate;pastors collectively
legislative assembly;persons who make or amend or repeal laws
united states senate;the upper house of the us congress
jam;a dense crowd of people
occupation;a body of people doing the same kind of work
electoral college;the body of electors who formally elect the us president and vice-president
high command;the highest leaders in an organization (e.g. the commander-in-chief and senior officers of the military)
fivesome;five people considered as a unit
social affair;a gathering for the purpose of promoting fellowship
tea;a reception or party at which tea is served. 'we met at the dean's tea for newcomers'
fancy dress ball;a ball at which guests wear costumes and masks
troika;a modern russian triumvirate
blue ribbon jury;a jury whose members are selected for special knowledge for a case involving complicated issues
colloquium;an academic meeting or seminar usually led by a different lecturer and on a different topic at each meeting
husking bee;a social gathering for the purpose of husking corn
officialdom;people elected or appointed to administer a government
historical school;a school of 19th c german economists and legal philosophers who tried to explain modern economic systems in evolutionary or historical terms
quintette;five people considered as a unit
legal profession;the body of individuals qualified to practice law
septet;seven people considered as a unit
feast;a ceremonial dinner party for many people
at home;a reception held in your own home
encounter group;a meeting of people to develop mutual understanding by openly expressing their feelings
crush;a dense crowd of people
hamlet;a community of people smaller than a village
bureaucracy;nonelective government officials
bench;persons who administer justice
ruck;a crowd especially of ordinary or undistinguished persons or things. 'his briliance raised him above the ruck'. 'the children resembled a fairy herd'
settlement;a community of people smaller than a town
company;a social gathering of guests or companions. 'the house was filled with company when i arrived'
social;a party of people assembled to promote sociability and communal activity
graduating class;the body of students who graduate together this year
meeting;a small informal social gathering. 'there was an informal meeting in my livingroom'
mask;a party of guests wearing costumes and masks
court of appeals;a court authorized to hear appeals
assembly;a group of persons gathered together for a common purpose
dinner party;a party of people assembled to have dinner together. 'guests should never be late to a dinner party'
cotilion;a ball at which young ladies are presented to society
class;a body of students who are taught together. 'early morning classes are always sleepy'
colony;a body of people who settle far from home but maintain ties with their homeland
smoker;a party for men only (or one considered suitable for men only)
seanad;the upper house of the parliament of the republic of ireland
physics class;students taking a course in physics together
pep rally;a rally (especially of students) before a game
diet;a legislative assembly in certain countries (e.g., japan)
congress;a national legislative assembly
bevy;a group of girls or young women
management;those in charge of running a business
octette;eight people considered as a unit
forum;a public meeting or assembly for open discussion
board meeting;a meeting for administrative purposes
dail;the lower house of the parliament of the republic of ireland
septette;seven people considered as a unit
probate court;a court having jurisdiction over the probate of will and the administration of estates
court of chancery;a court with jurisdiction in equity
panel;(law) a group of people summoned for jury service
shindy;a large and noisy party of people
pentagon;the us military establishment
occupational group;a body of people doing the same kind of work
golden horde;a mongolian army that swept over eastern europe in the 13th century
prelature;prelates collectively
jury;a body of citizens sworn to give a true verdict according to the evidence presented in a court of law
blind date;a date with a stranger. 'she never goes on blind dates'
crew;an informal body of friends. 'he still hangs out with the same crowd'
masquerade ball;a ball at which guests wear costumes and masks
senate;assembly possessing high legislative powers
sunday school class;a class in a sunday school
legal community;the body of individuals qualified to practice law
shower;a party of friends assembled to present gifts (usually of a specified kind) to a person. 'her friends organized a baby shower for her when she was expecting'
wedding;a party of people at a wedding
quintet;five people considered as a unit
chapter;an ecclesiastical assembly of the monks in a monastery or even of the canons of a church
superior court;any court that has jurisdiction above an inferior court
session;a meeting of spiritualists. 'the seance was held in the medium's parlor'
establishment;the persons (or committees or departments etc.) who make up a governing body and who administer something. 'he claims that the present administration is corrupt'. 'the governance of an association is responsible to its members'. 'he quickly became recognized as a member of the establishment'
bench;the magistrate or judge or judges sitting in court in judicial capacity to compose the court collectively
synod;a council convened to discuss ecclesiastical business
faculty;the body of teachers and administrators at a school. 'the dean addressed the letter to the entire staff of the university'
multitude;a large gathering of people
conventicle;a secret unauthorized meeting for religious worship
convocation;a group gathered in response to a summons
soiree musicale;a soiree assembled for the purpose of listening to music
gathering;"a group of persons together in one place"
court of assize;the county courts of england (replaced in 1971 by crown courts)
leadership;the body of people who lead a group. 'the national leadership adopted his plan'
sociable;a party of people assembled to promote sociability and communal activity
senior class;final grade or class in high school or college
flock;an orderly crowd. 'a troop of children'
burgh;a borough in scotland
engagement;a meeting arranged in advance. 'she asked how to avoid kissing at the end of a date'
rota;(roman catholic church) the supreme ecclesiastical tribunal for cases appealed to the holy see from diocesan courts
crowd;an informal body of friends. 'he still hangs out with the same crowd'
mob;a disorderly crowd of people
circuit court of appeals;one of the twelve federal u.s. courts of appeals that cover a group of states known as a 'circuit'
twosome;a pair who associate with one another. 'the engaged couple'. 'an inseprable twosome'
junior college;a college that offers only the first two years terminating in an associate degree
city;people living in a large densely populated municipality. 'the city voted for republicans in 1994'
cohort;a company of companions or supporters
freshman class;the first class in college or high school
community;the body of people in a learned occupation. 'the news spread rapidly through the medical community'
turnout;the group that gathers together for a particular occasion. 'a large turnout for the meeting'
opposition;a body of people united in opposing something
community of scholars;the body of individuals holding advanced academic degrees
gang;an informal body of friends. 'he still hangs out with the same crowd'
whist drive;(british) a party of people assembled to play progressive whist
threesome;three people considered as a unit
sabbath;a midnight meeting of witches to practice witchcraft and sorcery. in the middle ages it was supposed to be a demonic orgy
committee meeting;a meeting for administrative purposes
townspeople;the people living in a municipality smaller than a city. 'the whole town cheered the team'
clinton administration;the executive under president clinton
luncheon meeting;a meeting for lunch. usually to conduct business while eating
quartet;four people considered as a unit. 'he joined a barbershop quartet'. 'the foursome teed off before 9 a.m.'
sextette;six people considered as a unit
special court martial;a court-martial to try soldiers for offences less serious that than those comitted in action. consists of at least three officers
christianity;the collective body of christians throughout the world and history. 'for a thousand years the roman catholic church was the principal church of christendom'
bar;the body of individuals qualified to practice law
english class;students taking a course in english together
outpost;a settlement on the frontier of civilization
audience;a gathering of spectators or listeners at a (usually public) performance. 'the audience applauded'. 'someone in the audience began to cough'
first estate;the first of the three estates of the realm. the clergy in france and the lords spiritual in britain
rabbinate;rabbis collectively
first grade;students beginning elementary school
appellate court;a court authorized to hear appeals
open house;an informal party of people with hospitality for all comers
oireachtas;the parliament of the republic of ireland
appeals court;a court authorized to hear appeals
vocation;a body of people doing the same kind of work
garden party;a party of people assembled for social interaction out of doors
junior class;penultimate class in high school or college
horde;a moving crowd
research colloquium;a colloquium at which the results of (scientific) research are reported
sevensome;seven people considered as a unit
supreme headquarters;the highest leaders in an organization (e.g. the commander-in-chief and senior officers of the military)
court of assize and nisi prius;the county courts of england (replaced in 1971 by crown courts)
bush administration;the executive under president bush
function;a formal or official social gathering or ceremony. 'it was a black-tie function'
metropolis;people living in a large densely populated municipality. 'the city voted for republicans in 1994'
crowd;a large number of things or people considered together. 'a crowd of insects assembled around the flowers'
lawn party;a party of people assembled for social interaction out of doors
slumber party;an overnight party of girls who dress in nightclothes and and pass the night talking
general assembly;persons who make or amend or repeal laws
staff;the body of teachers and administrators at a school. 'the dean addressed the letter to the entire staff of the university'
troop;an orderly crowd. 'a troop of children'
chamber;a deliberative or legislative or administrative or judicial assembly. 'the upper chamber is the senate'
housewarming;a party of people assembled to celebrate moving into a new home
lords spiritual;the first of the three estates of the realm. the clergy in france and the lords spiritual in britain
cornhusking;a social gathering for the purpose of husking corn
drove;a moving crowd
health profession;the body of individuals whose work helps to maintain the health of their clients
record hop;an informal dance where popular music is played
rout;a disorderly crowd of people
college;the body of faculty and students of a college
mixer;a party of people assembled to promote sociability and communal activity
year;a body of students who graduate together: 'the class of '97'. 'she was in my year at hoehandle high'
couple;a pair who associate with one another. 'the engaged couple'. 'an inseprable twosome'
parliament;a legislative assembly in certain countries (e.g., great britain)
corps diplomatique;the body of diplomatic personnel
legion;a vast multitude
promenade;a formal dance held for a school class toward the end of the academic year
diplomatic service;the body of diplomatic personnel
community;a group of people living in a particular local area. 'the team is drawn from all parts of the community'
tribunal;an assembly (including one or more judges) to conduct judicial business
reception;a formal party of people. as after a wedding
grand jury;a jury to inquire in accusations of crime and to evaluate the grounds for indictments
governance;the persons (or committees or departments etc.) who make up a governing body and who administer something. 'he claims that the present administration is corrupt'. 'the governance of an association is responsible to its members'. 'he quickly became recognized as a member of the establishment'
congress;a meeting of elected or appointed representatives
trio;three people considered as a unit
seminar;any meeting for an exchange of ideas
speech community;people sharing a given language or dialect
knesseth;the israeli unicameral parliament
business;business concerns collectively. 'government and business could not agree'
supporting players;a cast other than the principles
triad;three people considered as a unit
stag party;a party for men only (or one considered suitable for men only)
dail eireann;the lower house of the parliament of the republic of ireland
dramatis personae;the actors in a play
sitting;a meeting of spiritualists. 'the seance was held in the medium's parlor'
rally;a large gathering of people intended to arouse enthusiasm
profession;the body of people in a learned occupation. 'the news spread rapidly through the medical community'
press;a dense crowd of people
convention;a large formal assembly. 'political convention'
table;a company of people assembled at a table for a meal or game. 'he entertained the whole table with his witty remarks'
borough;an english town that forms the constituency of a member of parliament
cotillion;a ball at which young ladies are presented to society
federal court;a court establish by the authority of a federal government
bunch;an informal body of friends. 'he still hangs out with the same crowd'
training college;(brit) a school providing training for a special field or profession
rank;the body of members of an organization or group. 'they polled their membership'. 'they found dissension in their own ranks'. 'he joined the ranks of the unemployed'
get together;a small informal social gathering. 'there was an informal meeting in my livingroom'
inspectorate;a body of inspectors
number;a select company of people. 'i hope to become one of their number before i die'
house of lords;the upper house of the british parliament
supper;a social gathering where a light evening meal is served. 'her suppers often included celebrities'
high court;the highest court in most states of the us
juvenile court;a court having jurisdiction over dependent and delinquent children
administration;the persons (or committees or departments etc.) who make up a governing body and who administer something. 'he claims that the present administration is corrupt'. 'the governance of an association is responsible to its members'. 'he quickly became recognized as a member of the establishment'
petty jury;a jury of 12 to determine the facts and decide the issue in civil or criminal proceedings
revival;an evangelistic meeting
hop;an informal dance where popular music is played
constituency;the body of voters who elect a representative for their area
lunch meeting;a meeting for lunch. usually to conduct business while eating
commune;a body of people or families living together and sharing everything
social gathering;a gathering for the purpose of promoting fellowship
prelacy;prelates collectively
states general;assembly of the estates of an entire country especially the sovereign body of the dutch republic from 16th to 18th centuriesassembly of the estates of an entire country especially the sovereign body of the dutch republic from 16th to 18th centuries
camp;a group of people living together in a camp. 'the whole camp laughed at his mistake'
traffic court;a court that has power to prosecute for traffic offences
date;a meeting arranged in advance. 'she asked how to avoid kissing at the end of a date'
fete champetre;a party of people assembled for social interaction out of doors
street;people living or working on the same street. 'the whole street protested the absence of street lights'
rabble;a disorderly crowd of people
conference;a prearranged meeting for consultation or or exchange of information or discussion (especially one with a formal agenda)
symposium;a meeting or conference for the public discussion of some topic especially one in which the participants form an audience and make presentations
sabbat;a midnight meeting of witches to practice witchcraft and sorcery. in the middle ages it was supposed to be a demonic orgy
summit;a meeting of heads of governments
clergy;clergymen collectively (as distinguished from the laity)
musical soiree;a soiree assembled for the purpose of listening to music
hive;a teeming multitude
business college;a school for teaching the clerical aspects of business and commerce
membership;the body of members of an organization or group. 'they polled their membership'. 'they found dissension in their own ranks'. 'he joined the ranks of the unemployed'
seanad eireann;the upper house of the parliament of the republic of ireland
fair;a gathering of producers to promote business: 'world fair'. 'trade fair'. 'book fair'
ensemble;a cast other than the principles
general assembly;the supreme deliberative assembly of the united nations
leaders;the body of people who lead a group. 'the national leadership adopted his plan'
carload;a gathering of passengers sufficient to fill an automobile
community college;a nonresidential junior college offering a curriculum fitted to the needs of the community
court martial;a military court to try serious breaches of martial law
host;a vast multitude
summit meeting;a meeting of heads of governments
inferior court;any court whose decisions can be appealed to a higher court
economics profession;the body of professional economists
herd;a crowd especially of ordinary or undistinguished persons or things. 'his briliance raised him above the ruck'. 'the children resembled a fairy herd'
traffic jam;a number of vehicles blocking one another until they can scarcely move
congress;the legislature of the us government
wedding party;a party of people at a wedding
house;an official assembly having legislative powers. 'the legislature has two houses'
retinue;the group following and attending to some important person
army;a large number of people united for some specific purpose
public;a body of people sharing some common interest. 'the reading public'
shindig;a large and noisy party of people
entourage;the group following and attending to some important person
varsity;a british abbreviation. usually oxford and cambridge universities
conclave;a confidential or secret meeting
small town;a community of people smaller than a town
drumhead court martial;a military court convened to hear urgent charges of offences committed in action
medical community;the body of individuals who practice medicine
chancery;a court with jurisdiction in equity
provost court;a military court for trying people charged with minor offenses in an occupied area
court;an assembly (including one or more judges) to conduct judicial business
dinner;a party of people assembled to have dinner together. 'guests should never be late to a dinner party'
chemistry class;students taking a course in chemistry together
proprietary colony;a colony given to a proprietor to govern (in 17th century)
horde;a vast multitude
ministry;religious ministers collectively (especially presbyterian)
village;a community of people smaller than a town
military court;a court of commissioned officers for the discipline and punishment of military personnel
reagan administration;the executive under president reagan
phalanx;any closely ranked crowd of people
mass meeting;a large gathering of people intended to arouse enthusiasm
night court;a criminal court (in large cities) that sits at night
lower court;any court whose decisions can be appealed to a higher court
lynch mob;a mob that kills a person for some presumed offense without legal authority
floor;the occupants of a floor. 'the whole floor complained about the lack of heat'
trial court;the first court before which the facts of a case are decided
prom;a formal dance held for a school class toward the end of the academic year
sextet;six people considered as a unit
executive;persons who administer the law
muster;a gathering of military personnel for duty. 'he was thrown in the brig for missing muster'
criminal court;a court having jurisdiction over criminal cases
eightsome;eight people considered as a unit
law makers;persons who make or amend or repeal laws
judicature;an assembly (including one or more judges) to conduct judicial business
settlement;a body of people who settle far from home but maintain ties with their homeland
biology class;students taking a course in biology together
horde;a nomadic community
knesset;the israeli unicameral parliament
organisation;the persons (or committees or departments etc.) who make up a governing body and who administer something. 'he claims that the present administration is corrupt'. 'the governance of an association is responsible to its members'. 'he quickly became recognized as a member of the establishment'
petit jury;a jury of 12 to determine the facts and decide the issue in civil or criminal proceedings
assizes;the county courts of england (replaced in 1971 by crown courts)
organization;the persons (or committees or departments etc.) who make up a governing body and who administer something. 'he claims that the present administration is corrupt'. 'the governance of an association is responsible to its members'. 'he quickly became recognized as a member of the establishment'
love feast;a social gathering intended to create goodwill among the participants
legislature;persons who make or amend or repeal laws
suite;the group following and attending to some important person
international court of justice;a court established to settle disputes between members of the united nations
throng;a large gathering of people
rotten borough;an english parliamentary constituency with few electors
seance;a meeting of spiritualists. 'the seance was held in the medium's parlor'
kangaroo court;an irregular unauthorized court
bee;a social gathering to carry out some communal task or to hold competitions
school;a body of creative artists or writers or thinkers linked by a similar style or by similar teachers. 'the venetian school of painting'
brass;the persons (or committees or departments etc.) who make up a governing body and who administer something. 'he claims that the present administration is corrupt'. 'the governance of an association is responsible to its members'. 'he quickly became recognized as a member of the establishment'
bureaucratism;nonelective government officials
rome;the leadership of the roman catholic church
carter administration;the executive under president carter
council;a meeting of people for consultation. 'emergency council'
rendezvous;a date. usually with a member of the opposite sex
contingent;a gathering of persons representative of some larger group. 'each nation sent a contingent of athletes to the olympics'
senate;the upper house of the us congress
masked ball;a ball at which guests wear costumes and masks
concourse;a large gathering of people
panel;a group of people gathered for a special purpose as to plan or discuss an issue or judge a contest etc
pocket borough;a sparsely populated borough in which all or most of the land is owned by a single family
witches;a midnight meeting of witches to practice witchcraft and sorcery. in the middle ages it was supposed to be a demonic orgy
reunion;a party of former associates who have come together again
covey;a small collection of people
frontier settlement;a settlement on the frontier of civilization
masque;a party of guests wearing costumes and masks
municipality;people living in a town or city having local self-government
assemblage;"a group of persons together in one place"
visit;a meeting arranged by the visitor. 'he scheduled a visit to the dentist'
sophomore class;the second class in a four-year college or high school
soiree;a party of people assembled in the evening (usually at a private house)
gaudy;(british) a celebratory feast held annually at one of the colleges in a british university
quorum;a gathering of members of an organization large enough to transact business
beanfeast;(british) an annual dinner party given by an employer for the employees
quilting bee;a gathering to make quilts
grade;a body of students who are taught together. 'early morning classes are always sleepy'
neighborhood;people living near one another. 'it is a friendly neighborhood'. 'my neighborhood voted for bush'
quadrumvirate;a group of four men
wedding reception;a reception wedding guests held after the wedding
body;a group of persons associated by some common tie or occupation and regarded as an entity. 'the whole body filed out of the auditorium'
divorce court;a court having jurisdiction over the termination of marriage contracts
diplomatic corps;the body of diplomatic personnel
estates general;assembly of the estates of all france. last meeting in 1789
cast;the actors in a play
united states congress;the legislature of the us government
town meeting;a meeting of the inhabitants of a town
tryst;a date. usually with a member of the opposite sex
town;the people living in a municipality smaller than a city. 'the whole town cheered the team'
cortege;the group following and attending to some important person
quarter sessions;a local court with criminal jurisdiction and sometimes administrative functions
rave up;(british) a raucous gathering
stockholders meeting;a meeting at which the management reports to the stockholders of a company
hen party;a party for women only
ball;a lavish formal dance. 'she was the loveliest girl at the ball'
trinity;three people considered as a unit
meeting;a formally arranged gathering. 'next year the meeting will be in chicago'
coven;an assembly of witches. usually 13 witches
business community;the body of individuals who manage businesses
masquerade;a party of guests wearing costumes and masks
priesthood;the body of ordained religious practitioners
corps;a body of people associated together. 'diplomatic corps'
form;a body of students who are taught together. 'early morning classes are always sleepy'
duo;a pair who associate with one another. 'the engaged couple'. 'an inseprable twosome'
businessmen;the body of individuals who manage businesses
appointment;a meeting arranged in advance. 'she asked how to avoid kissing at the end of a date'
judiciary;persons who administer justice
house of commons;the lower house of the british parliament
parish;a local church community
caucus;a closed political meeting
christendom;the collective body of christians throughout the world and history. 'for a thousand years the roman catholic church was the principal church of christendom'
neighbourhood;people living near one another. 'it is a friendly neighborhood'. 'my neighborhood voted for bush'
supreme court;the highest court in most states of the us
banquet;a ceremonial dinner party for many people
teachers college;a two-year school for training elementary teachers
party;a group of people gathered together for pleasure. 'she joined the party after dinner'
