taurus;a zodiacal constellation in the northern hemisphere near orion. between aries and gemini
woodpile;a pile or stack of wood to be used for fuel
hercules;a large constellation in the northern hemisphere between lyra and corona borealis
quartet;a set of four similar things considered as a unit
livingroom suite;a suite of furniture for the livingroom
dipper;a group of seven bright stars in the constellation ursa major
southern cross;a small conspicuous constellation the the southern hemisphere in the milky way near centaurus
orion;a constellation on the equator east of taurus. contains betelgeuse and rigel
pegasus;a constellation in the northern hemisphere near andromeda and pisces
mythology;"myths collectively. the body of stories associated with a culture or institution or person"
muckhill;a heap of dung or refuse
classical mythology;the system of mythology of the greeks and roman together. much of roman mythology (especially the gods) was borrowed from the greeks
shmear;(slang) a batch of things that go together. 'he bought the whole schmeer'
odds and ends;a motley assortment of things
schmear;(slang) a batch of things that go together. 'he bought the whole schmeer'
hydra;a long faint constellation near the equator stretching between virgo and cancer
capricorn;a faint zodiacal constellation in the southern hemisphere. between sagittarius and aquarius
field;(horse racing) all of the horses in a particular race
union;a set containing all and only the members of two or more given sets. 'let c be the union of the sets a and b'
package;"a collection of things wrapped or boxed together"
statuary;"statues collectively"
triad;a set of three similar things considered as a unit
crater;a faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near virgo
triplet;a set of three similar things considered as a unit
cygnus;a constellation in the northern hemisphere between pegasus and draco in the milky way. contains a black hole
dipper;a cluster of seven stars in ursa minor. at the end of the dipper's handle is polaris
subpopulation;a population that is part of a larger population
trimurti;the triad of divinities of later hinduism
roman mythology;the mythology of the ancient romans
threescore;a set with 3 times 20 members
galaxy;"a splendid assemblage (especially of famous people)"
little dog;a constellation east of orion. contains procyon
foot traffic;people coming and going on foot
sextet;a set of six similar things considered as a unit
victoriana;collection of materials of or characteristic of the victorian era"collection of materials of or characteristic of the victorian era"
sum;a set containing all and only the members of two or more given sets. 'let c be the union of the sets a and b'
stockpile;a storage pile accumulated for future use
chess set;a set of 32 chessmen
income tax bracket;a category of taxpayers based on the amount of their income
diningroom suite;a suite of furniture for the diningroom
norse mythology;the mythology of scandinavia (shared in part by britain and germany) until the establishment of christianity
little dipper;a cluster of seven stars in ursa minor. at the end of the dipper's handle is polaris
little bear;a constellation outside the zodiac that rotates around the north star
suite;a matching set of furniture
universe;"the whole collection of existing things"
heap;"a collection of objects laid on top of each other"
population;"(statistics) the entire aggregation of items from which samples can be drawn. 'it is an estimate of the mean of the population'"
the centaur;a conspicuous constellation in the southern hemisphere near the southern cross
bedroom set;a suite of furniture for the bedroom
funeral pyre;wood heaped for burning a dead body as a funeral rite
core group;a small group of indispensable persons or things. 'five periodicals make up the core of their publishing program'
deck of cards;a pack of 52 playing cards
automobile traffic;cars coming and going
leo;a zodiacal constellation in northern hemisphere between cancer and virgo
singleton;a set containing a single member
stack;an orderly pile
ursa minor;a constellation outside the zodiac that rotates around the north star
brace;a set of two similar things considered as a unit
draco;a faint constellation twisting around the north celestial pole and lying between ursa major and cepheus
pyre;wood heaped for burning a dead body as a funeral rite
consort;a family of similar musical instrument playing together
crux australis;a small conspicuous constellation the the southern hemisphere in the milky way near centaurus
ursa major;a constellation outside the zodiac that rotates around the north star
armamentarium;"the collection of equipment and methods used in the practice of medicine"
clutch;"a collection of things or persons to be handled together"
centaur;a conspicuous constellation in the southern hemisphere near the southern cross
great bear;a constellation outside the zodiac that rotates around the north star
choir;a family of similar musical instrument playing together
pack;"a complete collection of similar things"
perseus;a conspicuous constellation in the northern hemisphere. between auriga and cassiopeia and crossed by the milky way
miscellany;"a collection containing a variety of sorts of things. 'a great assortment of cars was on display'. 'he had a variety of disorders'"
tweedledee and tweedledum;any two people who are hard to tell apart
tax bracket;a category of taxpayers based on the amount of their income
logjam;an immovable mass of logs blocking a river
sextette;a set of six similar things considered as a unit
midden;a heap of dung or refuse
potpourri;"a collection containing a variety of sorts of things. 'a great assortment of cars was on display'. 'he had a variety of disorders'"
set;"a group of things of the same kind that belong together and are so used: 'a set of books'. 'a set of golf clubs'"
cadre;a nucleus of military personnel capable of expansion
the hunter;a constellation on the equator east of taurus. contains betelgeuse and rigel
auriga;a conspicuous constellation in the northern hemisphere. between great bear and orion at edge of milk way
sagittarius;a large zodiacal constellation in the southern hemisphere. between scorpius and capricornus
haystack;a stack of hay
pile;"a collection of objects laid on top of each other"
cosmos;"the whole collection of existing things"
mound;"a collection of objects laid on top of each other"
lot;"any collection in its entirety. 'she bought the whole caboodle'"
plough;a group of seven bright stars in the constellation ursa major
range;a variety of different things or activities. 'he answered a range of questions'. 'he was impressed by the range and diversity of the collection'
lexis;"all of the words in a language. all word forms having meaning or grammatical function"
treasure;"a collection of precious things. 'the trunk held all her meager treasures'"
aquarius;a zodiacal constellation in the southern hemisphere. between capricornus and pisces
septet;a set of seven similar things considered as a unit
vehicular traffic;the aggregation of vehicles coming and going in a particular locality
universe;"(statistics) the entire aggregation of items from which samples can be drawn. 'it is an estimate of the mean of the population'"
cepheus;a faint constellation in the northern hemisphere near cassiopeia and the pole star
declension;the complete set of inflected forms of a noun or pronoun or adjective
bus traffic;buses coming and going
stamp collection;"a collection of stamps"
join;a set containing all and only the members of two or more given sets. 'let c be the union of the sets a and b'
centaurus;a conspicuous constellation in the southern hemisphere near the southern cross
quintette;a set of five similar things considered as a unit
greek mythology;the mythology of the ancient greeks
asterism;"(astronomy) a cluster of stars (or a small constellation)"
snake;a long faint constellation near the equator stretching between virgo and cancer
bottle collection;"a collection of bottles: 'her bottle collection is arranged on glass shelves in the wondow'"
mass;"an ill-structured collection of similar things (objects or people)"
deck;a pack of 52 playing cards
hotchpotch;a motley assortment of things
field;all the competitors in a particular contest or sporting event
crux;a small conspicuous constellation the the southern hemisphere in the milky way near centaurus
pharmacopoeia;"a collection or stock of drugs"
schmeer;(slang) a batch of things that go together. 'he bought the whole schmeer'
coin collection;"a collection of coins"
aries;a small zodiacal constellation in the northern hemisphere. between pisces and taurus
haycock;a small cone-shaped pile of hay that has been left in the field until it is dry enough to carry to the hayrick
direct sum;a union of two disjoint sets in which every element is the sum of an element from each of the disjoint sets
coma berenices;a constellation in the northern hemisphere between ursa major and bootes. contains a cluster of some 10,000 galaxies
libra;a small faint zodiacal constellation in the southern hemisphere. between virgo and scorpius
batch;"a collection of things or persons to be handled together"
mingle mangle;a motley assortment of things
sestet;a set of six similar things considered as a unit
gemini;a zodiacal constellation in the northern hemisphere between taurus and cancer on the ecliptic
scorpio;a large zodiacal constellation between libra and sagittarius
assortment;"a collection containing a variety of sorts of things. 'a great assortment of cars was on display'. 'he had a variety of disorders'"
septette;a set of seven similar things considered as a unit
intersection;the set of elements common to two or more sets. 'the set of red hats is the intersection of the set of hats and the set of red things'
trio;a set of three similar things considered as a unit
backlog;"an accumulation of jobs not done or materials not processed that are yet to be dealt with. 'a large backlog of orders'"
gimmickry;"a collection of gimmicks"
tucana;a large faint constellation in the southern hemisphere containing most of the small magellanic cloud
crow;a small quadrilateral constellation in the southern hemisphere near virgo
pack of cards;a pack of 52 playing cards
canis major;a constellation southeast of orion. contains sirius
melange;a motley assortment of things
ragbag;a motley assortment of things
quintet;a set of five similar things considered as a unit
slagheap;pile of waste matter from coal mining etc
income bracket;a category of taxpayers based on the amount of their income
andromeda;a constellation in the northern hemisphere between cassiopeia and pegasus. contains the andromeda galaxy
wisp;a small bundle of straw or hay
great dog;a constellation southeast of orion. contains sirius
constellation;"a configuration of stars as seen from the earth"
packet;"a collection of things wrapped or boxed together"
bicycle traffic;bicycles coming and going
shock;a pile of sheaves of grain set on end in a field to dry. stalks of indian corn set up in a field
farrago;a motley assortment of things
scorpius;a large zodiacal constellation between libra and sagittarius
commuter traffic;traffic created by people going to or returning from work
block;"a number or quantity of related things dealt with as a unit. 'he reserved a large block of seats'. 'he held a large block of the company's stock'"
corpus;"a collection of writings. 'he edited the hemingway corpus'"
score;a set of twenty members. 'four score and seven years ago'
quartette;a set of four similar things considered as a unit
tweedledum and tweedledee;any two people who are hard to tell apart
truck traffic;trucks coming and going
bunch;"any collection in its entirety. 'she bought the whole caboodle'"
big dipper;a group of seven bright stars in the constellation ursa major
cancer;a small zodiacal constellation in the northern hemisphere. between leo and gemini
rick;a stack of hay
charles s wain;a group of seven bright stars in the constellation ursa major
corona borealis;a small constellation in the northern hemisphere between bootes and hercules
bracket;a category falling within certain defined limits
traffic;"the aggregation of things (pedestrians or vehicles or messages) coming and going in a particular locality"
lupus;a constellation in the southern hemisphere near centaurus
parcel;"a collection of things wrapped or boxed together"
octette;a set of eight similar things considered as a unit
shock;a bushy thick mass (especially hair). 'he had an unruly shock of black hair'
pisces;a large faint zodiacal constellation. between aquarius and aries
octet;a set of eight similar things considered as a unit
livingroom set;a suite of furniture for the livingroom
bedroom suite;a suite of furniture for the bedroom
conjugation;the complete set of inflected forms of a verb
product;the set of elements common to two or more sets. 'the set of red hats is the intersection of the set of hats and the set of red things'
dunghill;a heap of dung or refuse
car traffic;cars coming and going
muckheap;a heap of dung or refuse
price bracket;a category of merchandise based on their price
vehicle traffic;the aggregation of vehicles coming and going in a particular locality
pedestrian traffic;people coming and going on foot
miscellanea;"a collection containing a variety of sorts of things. 'a great assortment of cars was on display'. 'he had a variety of disorders'"
bootes;a constellation in the northern hemisphere near ursa major
oddments;a motley assortment of things
scrapheap;pile of discarded metal
trilogy;a set of three literary or dramatic works related in subject or theme
variety;"a collection containing a variety of sorts of things. 'a great assortment of cars was on display'. 'he had a variety of disorders'"
hayrick;a stack of hay
corvus;a small quadrilateral constellation in the southern hemisphere near virgo
selection;an assortment of things from which a choice can be made. 'the store carried a large selection of shoes'
caboodle;"any collection in its entirety. 'she bought the whole caboodle'"
nucleus;a small group of indispensable persons or things. 'five periodicals make up the core of their publishing program'
menagerie;"a collection of live animals for study or display"
capricornus;a faint zodiacal constellation in the southern hemisphere. between sagittarius and aquarius
hodgepodge;a motley assortment of things
bundle;"a collection of things wrapped or boxed together"
lyra;a small constellation in the northern hemisphere near cygnus and draco. contains the star vega
quadruplet;a set of four similar things considered as a unit
rogue s gallery;"a collection of pictures of criminals"
mixture;"a collection containing a variety of sorts of things. 'a great assortment of cars was on display'. 'he had a variety of disorders'"
omnium gatherum;a motley assortment of things
diningroom set;a suite of furniture for the diningroom
pair;a set of two similar things considered as a unit
virgo;a large zodiacal constellation on the equator. between leo and libra
cassiopeia;a w-shaped constellation near polaris
hydrus;a constellation in the southern hemisphere near the south celestial pole
canis minor;a constellation east of orion. contains procyon
core;a small group of indispensable persons or things. 'five periodicals make up the core of their publishing program'
motley;"a collection containing a variety of sorts of things. 'a great assortment of cars was on display'. 'he had a variety of disorders'"
