labour;a social class comprising those who do manual labor or work for wages. 'there is a shortage of skilled labor in this field'
disabled;people who are crippled or otherwise physically handicapped
tv audience;the audience reached by television
mass;"the common people generally. 'separate the warriors from the mass'. 'power to the people'"
fandom;the fans of a sport or famous person
warren;a colony of rabbits
deaf;people who have severe hearing impairments. 'many of the deaf use sign language'
riffraff;disparaging terms for the common people
following;a group of followers or enthusiasts
ragtag;disparaging terms for the common people
trash;worthless people
type o;the blood group whose red cells carry neither the a nor b antigens. 'people with type o blood are universal donors'
homeless;people who are homeless. 'the homeless lived on the city streets'
folk;people in general. 'they're just country folk'. 'the common people determine the group character and preserve its customs from one generation to the next'
bevy;a flock of quail
straggle;"a wandering or disorderly grouping (of things or persons). 'a straggle of outbuildings'. 'a straggle of followers'"
claque;a group of followers hired to applaud at a performance
timid;people who are fearful and cautious. 'whitewater rafting is not for the timid'
simon de montfort;(1208-1265) an english nobleman who led the baronial rebellion against henry iii
doomed;people who are destined to die soon. 'the agony of the doomed was in his voice'
peasantry;the class of peasants
country;the people of a nation or country or a community of persons bound by a common heritage. 'a nation of catholics'. 'the whole country worshipped him'
spanish;the people of spain
craft;people who perform a particular kind of skilled work. 'he represented the craft of brewers'. 'as they say in the trade'
age group;a group people having approximately the same age
team;two or more draft animals that work together to pull a vehicle
working class;a social class comprising those who do manual labor or work for wages. 'there is a shortage of skilled labor in this field'
living;people who are still living. 'save your pity for the living'
shudra;the lowest of the four main hindu castes: the worker caste
land;the people of a nation or country or a community of persons bound by a common heritage. 'a nation of catholics'. 'the whole country worshipped him'
young;young people collectively. 'rock music appeals to the young'. 'youth everywhere rises in revolt'
audience;the part of the general public interested in a source of information or entertainment. 'every artist needs an audience'. 'the broadcast reached an audience of millions'
masses;"the common people generally. 'separate the warriors from the mass'. 'power to the people'"
ruling class;the class of people exerting power or authority
english;the people of england
estate of the realm;a major social class or order of persons regarded collectively as part of the body politic of the country and formerly possessing distinct political rights
chosen people;any people believing themselves to be chosen by god
petite bourgeoisie;lower middle class (shopkeepers and clerical staff etc.)
literati;the literary intelligentsia
coevals;all the people living at the same time or of approximately the same age
shoal;a large group of fish. 'a school of small glittering fish swam by'
viscount;a british peer who ranks below an earl and above a baron
group ab;the blood group whose red cells carry both the a and b antigens
peerage;the peers of a kingdom considered as a group
type a;the blood group whose red cells carry the a antigen
free people;people who are free. 'the home of the free and the brave'
viewing audience;the audience reached by television
immigrant class;recent immigrants who are lumped together as a class by their low socioeconomic status in spite of different cultural backgrounds
strain;a special kind of domesticated animals within a species. 'he experimented on a particular breed of white rats'. 'he created a new variety of sheep'
clowder;a group of cats
cautious;people who are fearful and cautious. 'whitewater rafting is not for the timid'
age class;people in the same age range
caste;a social class separated from others by distinctions of hereditary rank or profession or wealth
smart set;the fashionable elite
english people;the people of england
agriculture;the class of people engaged in growing food
pride;a group of lions
center;politically moderate persons. centrists
covert;a flock of coots
brotherhood;people engaged in a particular occupation. 'the medical fraternity'
knighthood;aristocrats holding the rank of knight
world;people in general considered as a whole. 'he is a hero in the eyes of the public'
people;"(plural) any group of human beings (men or women or children) collectively. 'old people'. 'there were at least 200 people in the audience'"
temporalty;everyone except the clergy
flock;a group of sheep or goats
faithful;any loyal and steadfast following
retreated;people who have retreated. 'he had only contempt for the retreated'
upper class;the class occupying the highest position in the social hierarchy
defeated;people who are defeated. 'the romans had no pity for the defeated'
peer of the realm;(british) a peer who is entitled to sit in the house of lords
group b;the blood group whose red cells carry the b antigen
litter;the offspring at one birth of a multiparous mammal
variety;a special kind of domesticated animals within a species. 'he experimented on a particular breed of white rats'. 'he created a new variety of sheep'
admass;the segment of the public that is easily influenced by mass media (chiefly british)
youth;young people collectively. 'rock music appeals to the young'. 'youth everywhere rises in revolt'
mentally retarded;people who are mentally retarded. 'he started a school for the mentally retarded'
viewers;the audience reached by television
commonality;class composed of persons lacking noble or knightly or gentle rank
the english;the people of england
ragtag and bobtail;disparaging terms for the common people
readership;the audience reached by written communications (books or magazines or newspapers etc.)
school;a large group of fish. 'a school of small glittering fish swam by'
few;a small elite group. 'it was designed for the discriminating few'
high society;the fashionable elite
pick;the best people or things in a group. 'the cream of england's young men were killed in the great war'
elect;an exclusive group of people: 'one of the elect who have power inside the government'
group o;the blood group whose red cells carry neither the a nor b antigens. 'people with type o blood are universal donors'
pack;a group of hunting animals
middle class;the social class between the lower and upper classes
free;people who are free. 'the home of the free and the brave'
flight;a flock of flying birds
trade;people who perform a particular kind of skilled work. 'he represented the craft of brewers'. 'as they say in the trade'
unconfessed;people who have not confessed. 'the unconfessed cannot be forgiven'
montfort;(1208-1265) an english nobleman who led the baronial rebellion against henry iii
blood;people viewed as members of a group. 'we need more young blood in this organization'
brave;people who are brave. 'the home of the free and the brave'
estate;a major social class or order of persons regarded collectively as part of the body politic of the country and formerly possessing distinct political rights
animal group;"a group of animals"
maimed;people who are wounded. 'they had to leave the wounded where they fell'
domain;people in general. especially a distinctive group of people with some shared interest. 'the western world'
black market;people who engage in illicit trade
brahmin;the highest of the four main hindu castes: the priestly caste
initiate;people who been introduced to the mysteries of some field or activity. 'it is very familiar to the initiate'
life peer;a british peer whose title lapses at death
petty bourgeoisie;lower middle class (shopkeepers and clerical staff etc.)
elite;a group or class of persons enjoying superior intellectual or social or economic status
slain;people who have been slain (as in battle)
brahman;the highest of the four main hindu castes: the priestly caste
earl of leicester;(1208-1265) an english nobleman who led the baronial rebellion against henry iii
breed;a special kind of domesticated animals within a species. 'he experimented on a particular breed of white rats'. 'he created a new variety of sheep'
social class;people having the same social or economic status. 'the working class'. 'an emerging professional class'
stock;a special kind of domesticated animals within a species. 'he experimented on a particular breed of white rats'. 'he created a new variety of sheep'
the british;the people of great britain
nationality;the people of a nation or country or a community of persons bound by a common heritage. 'a nation of catholics'. 'the whole country worshipped him'
remuda;the herd of horses from which those to be used the next day are chosen
patronage;customers collectively. 'they have an upper class clientele'
laity;everyone except the clergy
fourth estate;newspaper writers and photographers
womanhood;women as a class. 'it's an insult to american womanhood'. 'woman is the glory of creation'
hebrews;(old testament) the ethnic group claiming descent from abraham and isaac (especially from isaac's son jacob). the nation whom god chose to receive his revelation and with whom god chose to make a covenant (exodus 19)
society;the fashionable elite
irish people;people of ireland or of irish extraction
drove;a group of animals (a herd or flock) moving together
gaggle;a flock of geese
peer;(british) a nobleman (duke or marquis or earl or viscount or baron) who is a member of the british peerage
uninitiate;people who have not been introduced to the mysteries of some field or activity. 'it diverts the attention of the uninitiate'
the irish;people of ireland or of irish extraction
blood type;people whose blood has the same antigens
flock;a group of birds
nation;the people of a nation or country or a community of persons bound by a common heritage. 'a nation of catholics'. 'the whole country worshipped him'
type b;the blood group whose red cells carry the b antigen
wolf pack;a group of wolves hunting together
labor;a social class comprising those who do manual labor or work for wages. 'there is a shortage of skilled labor in this field'
fraternity;people engaged in a particular occupation. 'the medical fraternity'
earl;a british peer ranking below a marquess and above a viscount
followers;a group of followers or enthusiasts
third estate;the third estate of the realm. the commons (especially in britain or france) viewed as forming a political order having representation in a parliament
press corps;a group of journalists representing different publications who all cover the same topics. 'the white house press corps'
british;the people of great britain
labor force;the source of trained people from which workers can be hired
swarm;a group of insects
public;people in general considered as a whole. 'he is a hero in the eyes of the public'
french people;the people of france
contemporaries;all the people living at the same time or of approximately the same age
lords temporal;the third estate of the realm: the nobility (especially british nobility) of the rank of duke or marquess or earl or viscount or baron
enemy;any hostile group of people. 'he viewed lawyers as the real enemy'
yeomanry;class of small freeholders who cultivated their own land
demimonde;a class of woman not considered respectable because of indiscreet or promiscuous behavior
aristocracy;the most powerful members of a society
clientele;customers collectively. 'they have an upper class clientele'
beau monde;the fashionable elite
samurai;feudal japanese military aristocracy
rank and file;people who constitute the main body of any group
proletariat;a social class comprising those who do manual labor or work for wages. 'there is a shortage of skilled labor in this field'
damned;people who are condemned to eternal punishment. 'he felt he had visited the realm of the damned'
convent;a community of people in a religious order (especially nuns) living together
irish;people of ireland or of irish extraction
colony;(microbiology) a group of organisms grown from a single parent cell
sudra;the lowest of the four main hindu castes: the worker caste
noblesse;members of the nobility (especially of the french nobility)
vaisya;the third of the four main hindu castes: the mercantile and professional caste
israelites;(old testament) the ethnic group claiming descent from abraham and isaac (especially from isaac's son jacob). the nation whom god chose to receive his revelation and with whom god chose to make a covenant (exodus 19)
the swiss;the people of switzerland
bourgeoisie;the social class between the lower and upper classes
pedigree;line of descent of a pure-bred animal
socio economic class;people having the same social or economic status. 'the working class'. 'an emerging professional class'
pod;a group of aquatic mammals
covey;a small flock of grouse or partridge
landed gentry;the gentry who own land (considered as a class)
brood;the young of an animal cared for at one time
kshatriya;the second highest of the four main hindu castes: the royal or warrior caste
commons;class composed of persons lacking noble or knightly or gentle rank
class;people having the same social or economic status. 'the working class'. 'an emerging professional class'
press;newspaper writers and photographers
firing line;the most advanced and responsible group in an activity. 'the firing line is where the action is'
aged;people who are old. 'special arrangements were available for the aged'
hoi polloi;"the common people generally. 'separate the warriors from the mass'. 'power to the people'"
academia;the academic world
homebound;people who are confined to their homes
enlightened;people who been introduced to the mysteries of some field or activity. 'it is very familiar to the initiate'
woman;women as a class. 'it's an insult to american womanhood'. 'woman is the glory of creation'
home folks;folks from your own home town
bloodstock;thoroughbred horses (collectively)
clerisy;an educated and intellectual elite
discomfited;people who are defeated. 'the romans had no pity for the defeated'
a;the blood group whose red cells carry the a antigen
womankind;women as distinguished from men
wounded;people who are wounded. 'they had to leave the wounded where they fell'
rabble;disparaging terms for the common people
wisp;a flock of snipe
herd;a group of wild animals of one species that remain together: antelope or elephants or seals or whales or zebra
age bracket;a group people having approximately the same age
market;the customers for a particular product or service. 'before they publish any book they try to determine the size of the market for it'
clutch;a number of birds hatched at the same time
generation;all the people living at the same time or of approximately the same age
baffled;people who are frustrated and perplexed. 'the children's faces clearly expressed the frustration of the baffled'
multitude;"the common people generally. 'separate the warriors from the mass'. 'power to the people'"
blind;people who have severe visual impairments. 'he spent hours reading to the blind'
bon ton;the fashionable elite
cream;the best people or things in a group. 'the cream of england's young men were killed in the great war'
smart money;people who are highly experienced or who have inside information. 'the smart money said truman would lose the election'
sick;people who are sick. 'they devote their lives to caring for the sick'
second estate;the third estate of the realm: the nobility (especially british nobility) of the rank of duke or marquess or earl or viscount or baron
b;the blood group whose red cells carry the b antigen
a people;the people of a nation or country or a community of persons bound by a common heritage. 'a nation of catholics'. 'the whole country worshipped him'
business;customers collectively. 'they have an upper class clientele'
type ab;the blood group whose red cells carry both the a and b antigens
british people;the people of great britain
duke;a british peer of the highest rank
spanish people;the people of spain
petit bourgeois;lower middle class (shopkeepers and clerical staff etc.)
herd;a group of cattle or sheep or other domestic mammals all of the same kind that are herded by humans
grub street;the world of literary hacks
aristocracy;a privileged class holding hereditary titles
people;"the common people generally. 'separate the warriors from the mass'. 'power to the people'"
sodality;people engaged in a particular occupation. 'the medical fraternity'
the french;the people of france
grass roots;the common people at a local level (as distinguished from the centers of political activity)
swiss;the people of switzerland
o;the blood group whose red cells carry neither the a nor b antigens. 'people with type o blood are universal donors'
squirearchy;the gentry who own land (considered as a class)
baron;a british peer of the lowest rank
french;the people of france
community;a group of people having ethnic or cultural or religious characteristics in common. 'the christian community of the apostolic age'. 'he was well known throughout the catholic community'
caste;(hindu) a hereditary social class stratified according to ritual purity
baronage;the peers of a kingdom considered as a group
commonalty;class composed of persons lacking noble or knightly or gentle rank
lower class;the social class lowest in the social hierarchy
world;people in general. especially a distinctive group of people with some shared interest. 'the western world'
swiss people;the people of switzerland
populace;people in general considered as a whole. 'he is a hero in the eyes of the public'
intelligentsia;an educated and intellectual elite
blood group;people whose blood has the same antigens
scum;worthless people
population;the people who inhabit a territory or state. 'the population seemd to be well fed and clothed'
gentry;the most powerful members of a society
labor pool;the source of trained people from which workers can be hired
beat generation;a us generation of the 1950s. rejected possessions or regular work or traditional dress. for communal living and psychedelic drugs and anarchism
brits;the people of great britain
house;the members of a religious community living together
colony;a group of animals of the same type living together
academe;the academic world
viscountess;a noblewoman holding the rank of viscount in her own right
common people;people in general. 'they're just country folk'. 'the common people determine the group character and preserve its customs from one generation to the next'
upper crust;the class occupying the highest position in the social hierarchy
chosen;an exclusive group of people: 'one of the elect who have power inside the government'
marquess;a british peer ranking below a duke and above an earl
lost;people who are destined to die soon. 'the agony of the doomed was in his voice'
dead;people who are no longer living. 'they buried the dead'
old school;a class of people favoring traditional ideas
earl marshal;an officer of the english peerage who organizes royal processions and other ceremonies
underworld;the criminal class
peer group;contemporaries of the same status
ab;the blood group whose red cells carry both the a and b antigens
nobility;a privileged class holding hereditary titles
group a;the blood group whose red cells carry the a antigen
