flutter kick;a swimming kick. the legs are moved rapidly up and down without bending the knees
good luck;a auspicious state resulting from favorable outcomes
hedge;an intentionally noncommittal or ambiguous statement
negating;the act of negating
supplementation;the act of supplementing
mortal sin;an unpardonable sin entailing a total loss of grace. theologians list 7 mortal sins
permission;approval to do something. 'he asked permission to leave'
ulceration;an inflammatory and often suppurating lesion on the skin or an internal mucous surface resulting in necrosis of tissue
neurosis;a mental or personality disturbance not attributable to any known neurological or organic dysfunction
contingency;the state of being contingent on something
tabular matter;information set out in tabular form
descent;the act of changing your location in a downward direction
metaplastic anemia;pernicious anemia in which the various formed elements in the blood are changed
skin cancer;a malignant neoplasm of the skin
hurdle;an obstacle that you are expected to overcome. 'the last hurdle before graduation'
caudal block;regional anesthesia resulting from injection of an anesthetic into the caudal end of the spinal canal. now largely replaced by epidural anesthesia
tubal ligation;a sterilization procedure with women. both fallopian tubes are tied in two places and the tubes removed in between the ligations
chondrosarcoma;a malignant neoplasm of cartilage cells
office;"(of a government or government official) holding an office means being in power. 'being in office already gives a candidate a great advantage'. 'during his first year in power'"
manic depressive illness;a mental disorder characterized by episodes of mania and depression
balls up;(british) something badly botched or muddled
long haul;a journey over a long distance. 'it's a long haul from new york to los angeles'
extinction;no longer in existence. 'the extinction of a species'
adenoma;a benign epithelial tumor of glandular origin
pms;a syndrome that occurs in many women from 2 to 14 days before the onset of menstruation
contract of hazard;a sale of a tract of land as a whole without a warranty as to the acreage
shortsightedness;(ophthalmology) eyesight abnormality resulting from the eye's faulty refractive ability
subject;"something (a person or object or scene) selected by an artist or photographer for graphic representation. 'a moving picture of a train is more dramatic than a still picture of the same subject'"
quiescency;a state of quiet (but possibly temporary) inaction
alkalinuria;a condition in which the urine (which is normally slightly acidic) is alkaline
embroilment;an intricate and confusing interpersonal or political situation
cocaine addiction;an addiction to cocaine
acute organic brain syndrome;any disorder (as sudden confusion or disorientation) in an otherwise normal person that is due to reversible (temporary) impairment of brain tissues (as by head injuries or drugs or infection)
physical restoration;providing help for disabled persons. the removal or reduction of disabilities
preferment;the act of preferring. 'the preferment went to the younger candidate'
flu;an acute febrile highly contagious viral disease
cordial reception;kindness in welcoming guests or strangers
vertigo;a reeling sensation. feeling about to fall
regicide;the act of killing a king
baking;cooking (bread) by dry heat in an oven
traumatic epilepsy;a convulsive epileptic state caused by a head injury
skinny;slang terms for inside information. 'is that the straight dope?'
microcosm;a miniature model of something
mumbo jumbo;a state of confusion. ritual accompanied by complicated and purposeless activity that obscures and confuses. 'he engaged in the hugger-mugger of international finance'
sign;(medical) any objective evidence of the presence of a disorder or disease. 'there were no signs of asphixiation'
miscue;a faulty shot in billiards. the cue tip slips off the cue ball
acidemia;a blood disorder characterized by an increased concentration of hydrogen ions in the blood (which falls below 7 on the ph scale)
din;the act of making a noisy disturbance
reason;a fact that logically justifies some premise or conclusion. 'there is reason to believe he is lying'
invidia;spite and resentment at seeing the success of another (personified as one of the deadly sins)
enumeration;a numbered list
folly;a stupid mistake
significance;the message that is intended or expressed
immolation;to kill as a sacrifice by fire
prix fixe;a menu listing fixed meals at fixed prices
tribute;something given or done as an expression of esteem
disfranchisement;the discontinuation of a franchise. especially the discontinuation of the right to vote
haste;the act of moving hurriedly and in a careless manner. 'in his haste to leave he forgot his book'
denial;an assertion that something alleged is not true
okay;an endorsement. 'they gave us the ok to go ahead'
postnasal drip;secretion of mucus from the rear of the nasal cavity into the nasopharynx
shitlist;a list of people who are out of favor
bluster;noisy confusion and turbulence. 'he was awakened by the bluster of their preparations'
amnesic aphasia;inability to name objects or to recognize written or spoken names of objects
toxemia;blood poisoning caused by toxic substances in the blood
extinguishing;the act of extinguishing. causing to stop burning. 'the extinction of the lights'
bronchial asthma;respiratory disorder characterized by wheezing. often of allergic origin
enlarged heart;an abnormal enlargement of the heart. mild cardiomegaly is common in athletes
singe;a surface burn
self sufficiency;personal independence
call;a demand by a broker that a customer deposit enough to bring his margin up to the minimum requirement
stipulation;an assumption on which rests the validity or effect of something else
popularization;the act of making something attractive to the general public
gummosis;pathological production of gummy exudates in citrus and various stone-fruit trees
bronze star medal;a us military decoration awarded for meritorious service (except in aerial flight)
sentential function;formal expression containing variables. becomes a sentence when variables are replaced by constants
touch;a suggestion of some quality. 'there was a touch of sarcasm in his tone'. 'he detected a ghost of a smile on her face'
general anesthesia;a state of total unconsciousness resulting from anesthetic drugs (as for a major surgical operation)
emendation;a correction by emending. a correction resulting from critical editing
untypicality;any state that is not typical
sideropenia;a deficiency of iron. results from inadequate iron in the diet or from hemorrhage
check;obstructing an opponent in ice hockey
backhand shot;a return made with the back of the hand facing the direction of the stroke
luxuria;self-indulgent sexual desire (personified as one of the deadly sins)
pay dirt;a profitable success. 'the inventor worked for years before hitting pay dirt'
flavor;the general atmosphere of a place or situation. 'the feel of the city excited him'. 'a clergyman improved the tone of the meeting'. 'it had the smell of treason'
mud;slanderous remarks or charges
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia;pneumonia occurring in persons with impaired immune systems (as aids victims)
tax shelter;a way of organizing business to reduce the taxes it must pay
ramification;the act of branching out or dividing into branches
rash;any eruption of the skin
cloud;out of touch with reality. 'his head was in the clouds'
sickness;the state that precedes vomiting
dedication;a message that makes a pledge
reversion;returning to a former state
tergiversation;falsification by means of vague or ambiguous language
sweetening;the act of adding a sweetener to food
superiority;the state of excelling or surpassing or going beyond usual limits
black eye;a bruise caused by a blow to the eye
pablum;worthless or oversimplified ideas
vigil;a period of sleeplessness
handicap;the condition of being unable to perform as a consequence of physical or mental unfitness
glaucoma;increased pressure in the eyeball causes damage to the optic disc and impaired vision (sometimes progressing to blindness)
eulogy;a formal expression of praise
herpes zoster;eruptions along a nerve path often accompanied by severe neuralgia
acidosis;abnormally high acidity of the blood and other body tissues
sendup;a composition that imitates somebody's style in a humorous way
variance;"an activity that varies from a norm or standard. 'any variation in his routine was immediately reported'"
bends;pain resulting from rapid change in pressure
survival;a state of surviving. remaining alive
depression;a long-term economic state characterized by unemployment and low prices and low levels of trade and investment
bubble gum dermatitis;an allergic contact dermatitis developed around the lips of children who chew bubble gum
loose smut;disease of grains. the entire head is a dusty mass of spores
reinforcement;(psychology) a stimulus that strengthens or weakens the behavior that produced it
grace;a short prayer of thanks before a meal
transcendency;a state of being or existence above and beyond the limits of material experience
understatement;a statement that is restrained in ironic contrast to what might have been said
self determination;government of a country by its own people
laziness;apathy and inactivity in the practice of virtue (personified as one of the deadly sins)
invagination;the folding in of an outer layer so as to form a pocket in the surface
corpus delicti;the body of evidence that constitute the offence. the objective proof that a crime has been committed (sometimes mistakenly thought to refer to the body of a homicide victim)
pyknosis;a degenerative state of the cell nucleus
gentlemen s agreement;a personal agreement based on honor and not legally binding
nonaccomplishment;"an act that does not achieve its intended goal"
self aggrandisement;an act undertaken to increase your own power and influence or to draw attention to your own importance
ague;successive stages of chills and fever that is a symptom of malaria
pinning;a mutual promise of a couple not to date anyone else. on college campuses it is signaled by the giving of a fraternity pin
anoxia;severe hypoxia. absence of oxygen in inspired gases or in arterial blood or in the tissues
impotency;an inability (usually of a male) to copulate
reverse stock split;a decrease in the number of outstanding shares of a corporation without changing the shareholders' equity
instillation;the introduction of a liquid (by pouring or injection) drop by drop
urgency;the state of being urgent. an earnest and insistent necessity
catharsis;purging the body by the use of a cathartic to stimulate evacuation of the bowels
ligation;tying with a ligature (as in surgery)
vesiculitis;inflammation of a seminal vesicle (usually in conjunction with prostatitis)
fade;gradually ceasing to be visible
hell;noisy and unrestrained mischief. 'raising blazes'
positive reinforcing stimulus;a reinforcing stimulus that serves to increase the likelihood of the response that produces it
high colonic;irrigation of the colon for cleansing purposes by injecting large amounts of fluid high into the colon
wave equation;a differential equation that describes the passage of harmonic waves through a medium
hemorrhage;flow of blood from ruptured blood vessels
application;a verbal or written request for assistance or employment or admission to a school. 'december 31 is the deadline for applications'the class of application objects on which apple event handlers are specialized. it has only one instance at a time.
sport;verbal wit (often at another's expense but not to be taken seriously). 'he became a figure of fun'
disseminated lupus erythematosus;a chronic inflammatory collagen disease affecting connective tissue (skin or joints)
provision;a stipulated condition. 'he accepted subject to one provision'
handover;act of relinquishing property or authority etc: 'the handover of occupied territory'
hunting ground;a place where opportunities abound
grilling;cooking by direct exposure to radiant heat (as over a fire or under a grill)
furore;a sudden outburst (as of protest)
suggestion;a proposal offered for acceptance or rejection
sweet talk;flattery designed to gain favor
tertiary syphilis;the third stage. characterized by involvement of internal organs especially the brain and spinal cord as well as the heart and liver
accruement;the act of accumulating
infusion;the passive introduction of a substance (a fluid or drug or electrolyte) into a vein or between tissues (as by gravitational force)
packing;the enclosure of something in a box
latent content;(psychoanalysis) hidden meaning of a fantasy or dream
standing ovation;enthusiastic recognition (especially one accompanied by loud applause)
phd;an american doctorate usually based on at least 3 years graduate study and a dissertation. the highest degree awarded by a graduate school
bottom line;the decisive point
aching;a dull persistent (usually moderately intense) pain
report card;a written evaluation of a student's scholarship and deportment. 'his father signed his report card'
pennant;the award given to the champion
evasion;a statement that is not literally false but that cleverly avoids an unpleasant truth
bubonic plague;characterized by delirium and the formation of buboes
inebriety;a temporary state resulting from excessive consumption of alcohol
adversity;a state of misfortune or affliction: 'debt-ridden farmers struggling with adversity'. 'a life of hardship'
merger agreement;contract governing the merger of two or more companies
felo de se;an act of deliberate self destruction
intrinsic fraud;fraud (as by use of forged documents or false claims or perjury) that misleads a court or jury and induces a finding for the one perpetrating the fraud
rascality;reckless or malicious behavior that causes discomfort or annoyance in others
works;"performance of moral or religious acts. 'salvation by deeds' or 'the reward for good works'"
venial sin;a pardonable sin regarded as entailing only a partial loss of grace
russet scab;rhizoctinia disease of potatoes
break;an act of delaying or interrupting the continuity. 'it was presented without commercial breaks'
afternoon;a conventional expression of greeting or farewell
deflection;a twist or aberration. especially a perverse or abnormal way of judging or acting
behaviour;the action or reaction of something (as a machine or substance) under specified circumstances. 'the behavior of small particles can be studied in experiments'
sale in gross;a sale of a tract of land as a whole without a warranty as to the acreage
cut;a wound made by cutting. 'he put a bandage over the cut'
rabies;an acute viral disease of the nervous system of warm-blooded animals (usually transmitted by the bite of a rabid animal)
system command;a computer user's instruction (not part of a program) that calls for action by the computer's executive program
extrinsic fraud;fraud that prevents a party from knowing their rights or from having a fair opportunity of presenting them at trial
albatross;(figurative) something that hinders or handicaps. 'she was an albatross around his neck'
obscurantism;a deliberate act intended to make something obscure
lack;the state of needing something that is absent or unavailable. 'there is a serious lack of insight into the problem'. 'water is the critical deficiency in desert regions'. 'for want of a nail the shoe was lost'
moon blindness;recurrent eye inflammation in horses. sometimes resulting in blindness
watering;wetting with water. 'the lawn needs a great deal of watering'
filibuster;a tactic for delaying or obstructing legislation by making long speeches
updating;the act of changing something to bring it up to date (usually by adding something). 'criminal records need regular updating'
impossibleness;incapability of existing or occurring
radiance;an attractive combination of good health and happiness. 'the radiance of her countenance'
thrust;a thrusting blow with a knife
abeyance;temporary cessation or suspension
atheroma;abnormal fatty deposits in the intima of arteries
phobic neurosis;a general term for all phobias
rattrap;a difficult entangling situation
blooper;an embarrassing mistake
nod;the act of nodding the head
potato mosaic;a disease of the leaves of potato plants
elimination;the murder of a competitor
inspection and repair;periodic maintenance on a car or machine. 'it was time for an overhaul on the tractor'
de escalation;a reduction in intensity (of a crisis or a war)
deficiency;the state of needing something that is absent or unavailable. 'there is a serious lack of insight into the problem'. 'water is the critical deficiency in desert regions'. 'for want of a nail the shoe was lost'
straining;the act of distorting something so it seems to mean something it was not intended to mean
cephalohematoma;a collection of blood under the scalp of a newborn. caused by pressure during birth
haste;a condition of urgency making it necessary to hurry. 'in a hurry to lock the door'
lapse;a failure to maintain a higher state
swing;a sweeping blow or stroke. 'he took a wild swing at my head'
injury;an act that injures someone
dig;an aggressive remark directed at a person like a missile and intended to have a telling effect. 'his parting shot was 'drop dead''. 'she threw shafts of sarcasm'. 'she takes a dig at me every chance she gets'
bedsore;a chronic ulcer of the skin caused by prolonged pressure on it (as in bedridden patients)
immersion foot;resembling frostbite but without freezing. resulting from exposure to cold and wet
harm;the act of damaging something or someone
aerobatics;the performance of stunts while in flight in an aircraft
fusion;the state of being combined into one body
addison s disease;a glandular disorder caused by failure of function of the cortex of the adrenal gland and marked by anemia and prostration with brownish skin
shortage;a severe shortage (especially a shortage of food)
vibes;a distinctive emotional atmosphere. sensed intuitively. 'the place gives me bad vibes'
constipation;irregular and infrequent or difficult evacuation of the bowels. can be a symptom of intestinal obstruction or diverticulitis
glioma;a tumor of the brain consisting of neuroglia
terrorisation;an act of terrorism
respiratory disorder;a disease affecting the respiratory system
marking;the act of making a visible mark on a surface
listing;a database containing an ordered array of items (names or topics)
gash;a wound made by cutting. 'he put a bandage over the cut'
bundling;the act of binding something into a bundle
estoppel;a rule of evidence whereby a person is barred from denying the truth of a fact that has already been settled
pestilence;a pernicious evil influence
dynamic balance;(aeronautics) the state of equilibrium in which centrifugal forces due to a rotating mass (e.g., a propeller) do not produce force in the shaft and so vibration is reduced
advancement;gradual improvement or growth or development: 'advancement of knowledge'. 'great progress in the arts'. 'their research and development gave them an advantagte'
menace;a threat or the act of threatening. 'he spoke with desperate menace'
honor;a tangible symbol signifying approval or distinction. 'an award for bravery'
blameworthiness;a state of guilt
anaemia;a deficiency of red blood cells
renege;the mistake of not following suit when able to do so
exogenous depression;an inappropriate state of depression that is precipitated by events in the person's life (to be distinguished from normal grief)
slipup;an inadvertent mistake
self direction;personal independence
unintelligibility;nonsense that is simply incoherent and unintelligible
disorderly behavior;any act of molesting or interrupting or hindering or disquieting or agitating or arousing from a state of repose or otherwise depriving inhabitants of the peace and quiet to which they are entitled
belittling;a belittling comment
wordplay;a humorous play on words. 'i do it for the pun of it'
intromission;the act of putting one thing into another
guiltiness;"the state of having committed an offense"
weasel word;an equivocal qualification. a word used to avoid making an outright assertion
oxygen debt;a cumulative deficit of oxygen resulting from intense exercise. the deficit must be made up when the body returns to rest
chemical formula;a representation of a substance using symbols for its constituent elements
mls;a ,aster's degree in library science
depressed fracture;fracture of the skull where the bone is pushed in
modification;the act of making something different (as e.g. the size of a garment)
trickery;verbal misrepresentation intended to take advantage of you in some way
care;a cause for feeling concern. 'his major care was the illness of his wife'
transit;a journey usually by ship. 'the outward passage took 10 days'
tic;a local and habitual twitching especially in the face
activation;making active and effective (as a bomb)
conditionality;"the state of being conditional"
self annihilation;killing yourself
unfairness;an unjust act
restitution;the act of restoring something to its original state
pean;a formal expression of praise
rule;a systematic body of regulations defining the way of life of members of a religious order. 'the rule of st. dominic'
cerebrospinal meningitis;meningitis caused by bacteria and often fatal
chipping;the act of chipping something
palliation;to act in such a way as to cause an offense to seem less serious
case;a problem requiring investigation. 'perry mason solved the case of the missing heir'
soaking;the act of making something completely wet
artium magister;a master's degree in arts and sciences
predication;a declaration of something self-evident. something that can be assumed as the basis for argument
strawberry haemangioma;a congenital bright red superficial vascular tumor resembling a strawberry. tends to decrease in size during childhood
agraphia;a loss of the ability to write or to express thoughts in writing because of a brain lesion
spinal curvature;an abnormal curvature of the vertebral column
stimulation;the act of stimulating
indisposition;a slight illness
posing;the act of assuming a certain position (as for a photograph or portrait). 'he wanted his portrait painted but couldn't spare time for the sitting'
dysmenorrhea;painful menstruation
disservice;an act intended to help that turns out badly. 'he did them a disservice'
halo spot;a blight of bean plants
llm;an advanced law degree
macrocytosis;the presence of macrocytes in the blood
croup;a disease of infants and young children. harsh coughing and hoarseness and fever and difficult breathing
adjournment;the termination of a meeting
tonsure;shaving the crown of the head by priests or members of a monastic order
aortic stenosis;abnormal narrowing of the aortic valve
appearance;pretending that something is the case in order to make a good impression. 'they try to keep up appearances'. 'that ceremony is just for show'
doctor of dental surgery;a doctor's degree in dental surgery
demand;an urgent or peremptory request. 'his demands for attention were unceasing'
subversion;the act of overthrowing a legally constituted government
dissembling;pretending with intention to deceive
labyrinthitis;inflammation of the inner ear. can cause vertigo and vomiting
damage;a legal injury is any damage resulting from a violation of a legal right
obiter dictum;an incidental remark
double negative;an affirmative constructed from two negatives. 'a not unwelcome outcome'
storm centre;a center of trouble or disturbance
surety;a guarantee that an obligation will be met
send off;an organized expression of goodwill at the start of a trip or new venture
cleanup;the act of making something clean. 'he gave his shoes a good cleaning'
rise;increase in price or value: 'the news caused a general advance on the stock market'
headshake;the act of turning your head left and right to signify denial or disbelief or bemusement. 'i could tell from their headshakes that they didn't believe me'
wound;the act of inflicting a wound
fool s paradise;an illusory state of well-being
muscular dystrophy;any of several hereditary diseases of the muscular system characterized by weakness and wasting of skeletal muscles
foot rot;contagious degenerative infection of the feet of hoofed animals (especially cattle and sheep)
referral;a recommendation to consult the (professional) person referred to. 'this patient is a referral from dr. bones'
position;"a condition or position in which you find yourself: 'the unpleasant situation (or position) of having to choose between two evils'. 'found herself in a very fortunate situation'"
question of fact;a disputed factual contention that is generally left for a jury to decide
repartee;adroitness and cleverness in reply
banti s disease;a disease characterized by congestion and enlargement of the spleen. accompanied by anemia or cirrhosis
initialization;(computer science) the format of sectors on the surface of a hard disk drive so that the operating system can access them
scarlet fever;an acute communicable disease (usually in children) characterized by fever and a red rash
sabotage;a deliberate act of destruction or disruption in which equipment is damaged
prognosis;a prediction about how something (as the weather) will develop
colonic;irrigation of the colon for cleansing purposes by injecting large amounts of fluid high into the colon
commemoration;a recognition of meritorious service
victimless crime;an act that is legally a crime but that seem to have no victims. 'he considers prostitution to be a victimless crime'
one liner;a one-line joke
purport;the intended meaning of a communication
response;the manner in which something is greeted. 'she did not expect the cold reception she received from her superiors'
stratification;"the condition of being arranged in social strata or classes"
cajolery;flattery intended to persuade
thuggery;violent or brutal acts as of thugs
impropriety;an indecent or improper act
misunderstanding;putting the wrong interpretation on. 'his misinterpretation of the question caused his error' or 'there was no mistaking her meaning'
call;a demand especially in the phrase 'the call of duty'
sterility;the state of being unable to produce offspring
wakefulness;a periodic state during which you are conscious and aware of the world
speech disorder;a disorder of oral speech
fibrosis;development of excess fibrous connective tissue in an organ
acephalism;absence of the head (as in the development of some monsters)
rolling;the act of robbing a helpless person. 'he was charged with rolling drunks in the park'
canicola fever;an acute feverish disease in people and in dogs marked by gastroenteritis and mild jaundice
aleatory contract;a contract whose performance by one party depends on the occurrence of an uncertain contingent event (but if it is contingent on the outcome of a wager it is not enforceable)
travel;the act of going from one place to another. 'he enjoyed selling but he hated the travel'
imitation;a representation of a person that is exaggerated for comic effect
drive;hitting a golf ball off of a tee with a driver. 'he sliced his drive out of bounds'
fact;"a piece of information about circumstances that exist or events that have occurred. 'first you must collect all the facts of the case'"
approximation;the act of bringing near or bringing together especially the cut edges of tissue
abc s;a statement of fundamental facts or principles
status;"a condition or state at a particular time: 'a condition (or state) of disrepair'. 'the current status of the arms negotiations'"
ego trip;an act undertaken to increase your own power and influence or to draw attention to your own importance
perfection;the act of making something perfect
lighting;the act of starting a fire
mimesis;any disease that shows symptoms characteristic of another disease
awayness;the state of being elsewhere than in particular place
little bighorn;a battle in montana near the little bighorn river between general custer's cavalry and several groups of native americans (1876). custer was pursuing sioux led by sitting bull. custer underestimated the size of the sioux forces (which were supported by cheyenne warriors) and was killed along with all his command
subornation;underhandedly or improperly inducing someone to do something improper or unlawful. 'subornation of perjury is a crime'
kneeling;supporting yourself on your knees
shingles;eruptions along a nerve path often accompanied by severe neuralgia
eye condition;"the condition of the optical properties of the eye"
hunting expedition;an overland journey by hunters (especially in africa)
solvency;the ability to meet maturing obligations as they come due
background;"information that is essential to understanding a situation or problem. 'the embassy filled him in on the background of the incident'"
disjunction;the act of breaking a connection
esophageal reflux;reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus
corn;a hard thickening of the skin (especially of the toes) caused by the pressure of ill-fitting shoes
scurry;rushing about hastily in an undignified way
poser;a particularly difficult or baffling question or problem
astraphobia;a morbid fear of thunder and lightning
fumble;dropping the ball (in baseball or football)
extortion;the felonious act of extorting money (as by threats of violence)
decoration;an award for winning a championship
spider angioma;a dilation of superficial capillaries with a central red dot from which blood vessels radiate
shape;the state of (good) health--especially in the phrases 'in condition' or 'in shape' or 'out of condition' or 'out of shape'
crossed eye;strabismus in which eyes turn inward toward the nose
penuriousness;a state of lacking money
regression equation;the equation representing the relation between selected values of one variable (x) and observed values of the other (y). it permits the prediction of the most probable values of y
gait;a horse's manner of moving
dictum;an authoritative declaration
kingdom;a domain in which something is dominant. 'the untroubled kingdom of reason'. 'a land of make-believe'. 'the rise of the realm of cotton in the south'
pawn ticket;a pawnbroker's receipt for articles taken as security
hyperthyroidism;pathologically excessive production of thyroid hormones. characterized by increased metabolism and exophthalmos
arterial sclerosis;sclerosis of the arterial walls
tack;(nautical) the act of changing tack
faultfinding;persistent petty and unjustified criticism
death;the act of killing. 'he had two deaths on his conscience'
comprehension;the act of comprising something
global aphasia;loss of all ability to communicate
cervicitis;inflammation of the uterine cervix
approval;acceptance as satisfactory. 'he bought it on aproval'
earful;a severe scolding
redeye;a night flight from which the passengers emerge with eyes red from lack of sleep
complaint;a formal accusation against somebody
bacteremia;transient presence of bacteria (or other microorganisms) in the blood
bunko;a swindle in which you cheat at gambling or persuade a person to buy worthless property
concentrate;a concentrated example. 'the concentrate of contemporary despair'
heart condition;a disease of the heart
holocaust;an act of great destruction and loss of life
shenanigan;reckless or malicious behavior that causes discomfort or annoyance in others
carnage;the savage and excessive killing of people
cheat;a deception for profit to yourself
setting;the state of the environment in which a situation exists. 'you can't do that in a university setting'
colic;acute abdominal pain (especially in infants)
redundancy;(electronics) a system design that duplicates components to provide alternatives in case one component fails
rip;the act of rending or ripping or splitting something. 'he gave the envelope a vigorous rip'
malfeasance;a wrongful act that the actor had no right to do. improper professional conduct. 'he charged them with electoral malpractices'
all clear;permission to proceed because obstacles have been removed
schism;division of a group into opposing factions. 'another schism like that and they will wind up in bankruptcy'
re afforestation;the restoration (replanting) of a forest that had been reduced by fire or cutting
service cutback;the act of reducing service
simple phobia;any phobia (other than agoraphobia) associated with relatively simple well-defined stimuli
bellyache;an ache localized in the stomach or abdominal region
slaughter;the killing of animals (as for food)
saturation;the act of saturating something
whiplash;a quick blow with a whip
hole;informal terms for a difficult situation. 'he got into a terrible fix'. 'he made a muddle of his marriage'
mooneye;recurrent eye inflammation in horses. sometimes resulting in blindness
supplanting;act of taking the place of another especially using underhanded tactics
down bow;a downward stroke from the heel to the tip of the bow
rheumatic fever;a severe disease chiefly of children and characterized by painful inflammation of the joints and frequently damage to the heart valves
motor aphasia;aphasia in which expression by speech or writing is severely impaired
hebrew alphabet;a semitic alphabet used since the 5th century bc
correction;the act of offering an improvement to replace a mistake
feeler;a tentative suggestion designed to elicit the reactions of others. 'she rejected his advances'
phobia;a general term for all phobias
vision defect;impairment of the sense of sight
assize;the regulation of weights and measures of articles offered for sale
reinstatement;the act of restoring someone to a previous position. 'we insisted on the reinstatement of the colonel'
fixing;the sterilization of an animal
arena;a particular environment or walk of life. 'his social sphere is limited'. 'it was a closed area of employment'. 'he's out of my orbit'
order of the day;the order of business for an assembly on a given day
sialadenitis;inflammation of the salivary glands
front;a sphere of activity involving effort. 'the japanese were active last week on the diplomatic front'. 'they advertise on many different fronts'
scatter;the act of scattering
slash;a wound made by cutting. 'he put a bandage over the cut'
blunder;an embarrassing mistake
lymphangioma;angioma consisting of a mass of lymphatic vessels
beginning;the event consisting of the start of something: 'the beginning of the war'
sociopathic personality;an antisocial personality disorder. capable of violent acts without guilt feelings ('psychopathic personality' was once widely used but has now been superseded by 'sociopathic personality' to indicate the social aspects of the disorder)
flex;the act of bending something
smashing;the act of breaking something into small pieces
substantiation;additional proof that something that was believed is true. 'fossils provided further confirmation of the evolutionary theory'
white pine blister rust;any of several diseases of pines caused by rust fungi of the genus cronartium and marked by destructive invasion of bark and sapwood and producing blisters externally
cushing s disease;a glandular disorder caused by excessive acth resulting in greater than normal functioning of the adrenal gland. characterized by obesity
gravidness;a technical term for pregnancy
tonic epilepsy;epilepsy in which the body is rigid during the seizure
correction;a rebuke for making a mistake
still s disease;a form of rheumatoid arthritis that affects children. large joints become inflamed and bone growth may be retarded
forecasting;a statement about the future
predominance;the state of being predominant over others
thd;a doctor's degree in theology
poppycock;senseless talk. 'don't give me that stuff'
clanger;(british) a conspicuous mistake whose effects seem to reverberate. 'he dropped a clanger'
labour pains;a regularly recurrent spasm of pain that is characteristic of childbirth
swipe;a sweeping stroke or blow
move;a change of position that does not entail a change of location. 'the reflex movements of his eyebrows revealed his surprise'.
roman alphabet;the alphabet evolved by the ancient romans
blister rust;any of several diseases of pines caused by rust fungi of the genus cronartium and marked by destructive invasion of bark and sapwood and producing blisters externally
hijacking;robbery of a traveller or vehicle by force
dissembling;the act of deceiving
first amendment;an amendment to the constitution of the united states guaranteeing the right of free expression. includes freedom of assembly and freedom of the press and freedom of religion and freedom of speech
affluence;abundant wealth
urarthritis;a painful inflammation of the big toe and foot caused by defects in uric acid metabolism resulting in deposits of the acid and its salts in the blood and joints
snakebite;a bite inflicted by a (venomous) snake
division;the act or process of dividing or splitting
dphil;a british doctorate
saddle block anesthesia;the parts of a patient's body that would touch a saddle if the patient were sitting in one are anesthetized by injecting a local anesthetic into the spinal cord
latent hostility;feelings of hostility that are not manifest. 'he could sense her latent hostility to him'. 'the diplomats' first concern was to reduce international tensions'
restoration;the act of restoring something or someone to a satisfactory state
bank run;the concerted action of depositors who try to withdraw their money from a bank because the think it will fail
reflex epilepsy;a form of epilepsy in which attacks are induced by peripheral stimulation
chondroma;a common benign tumor of cartilage cells
hypothetical imperative;a principle stating the action required to attain a desired goal
esurience;excessive desire to eat
tenosynovitis;inflammation of the sheath surrounding a tendon
contortion;the act of twisting or deforming the shape of something (e.g., oneself)
fester;a sore that has become inflamed and formed pus
junketing;taking an excursion for pleasure
purity;"the state of being free from sin or moral wrong. lacking a knowledge of evil"
strangling;the act of suffocating by constricting the windpipe. 'no evidence that the choking was done by the accused'
admission;an acknowledgment of the truth of something
inclination;the act of inclining. bending forward. 'an inclination of his head indicated his agreement'
store;depositing in a warehouse
anomia;inability to name objects or to recognize written or spoken names of objects
tenderness;a pain that is felt when the area is touched
gall;a skin sore caused by chafing
disuse;the state of something that has been unused and neglected. 'the house was in a terrible state of neglect'
establishment;the act of forming something. 'the constitution of a pta group'. 'he still remembers the establishment of the hospital'
hysterical neurosis;characterized by violent emotional outbreaks and disturbances of sensory and motor functions
outing;a journey taken for pleasure. 'many summer excursions to the shore'. 'it was merely a pleasure trip'. 'after cautious sashays into the field'
unionisation;act of forming labor unions
remotion;the act of removing. 'he had surgery for the removal of a malignancy'
blue blindness;inability to distinguish blue and yellow
urticaria;an itchy skin eruption characterized by weals with pale interiors and well-defined red margins. usually the result of an allergic response to insect bites or food or drugs
certification;confirmation that some fact or statement is true
price cutting;cutting the price of merchandise to one lower than the usual or advertised price
brain drain;depletion or loss of intellectual and technical personnel
caricature;a representation of a person that is exaggerated for comic effect
rebus;a puzzle where you decode a message consisting of pictures representing syllables and words
confounding;a mistake that results from taking one thing to be another. 'he changed his name in order to avoid confusion with the notorious outlaw'
lowering;the act of causing to become less
balagan;a word for chaos or fiasco borrowed from modern hebrew (where it is a loan word from russian). 'it was utter and complete balagan!'
sanitisation;making something sanitary (free of germs) as by sterilizing
tombola;(british) a lottery in which tickets are drawn from a revolving drum
elephantiasis scroti;swelling of the scrotum resulting from chronic lymphatic obstruction
chancre;a small hard painless nodule at the site of entry of a pathogen (as syphilis)
scorn;open disrespect for a person or thing
ulcer;an inflammatory and often suppurating lesion on the skin or an internal mucous surface resulting in necrosis of tissue
insomnia;an inability to sleep. chronic sleeplessness
spinal anesthesia;anesthesia of the lower half of the body. caused by injury to the spinal cord or by injecting an anesthetic beneath the arachnoid membrane that surrounds the spinal cord
uncovering;the removal of covering
gumboil;a boil or abscess on the gums
nonconformity;failure to conform
mi;destruction of heart tissue resulting from obstruction of the blood supply to the heart muscle
fix;the act of putting something in working order again
fact;"a concept whose truth can be proved. 'scientific hypotheses are not facts'"
butterfly;a swimming stroke in which the arms are thrown forward together out of the water while the feet kick up and down
anxiety neurosis;characterized by diffuse anxiety and often somatic manifestations of fear
reclining;the act of assuming or maintaining a reclining position
offshoot;a natural consequence of development
dire straits;a state of extreme distress
allegation;statements affirming or denying certain matters of fact
promotion;encouragement of the progress or growth or acceptance of something
doctor s degree;one of the highest academic degrees conferred by a university
obviation;the act of preventing something by anticipating and disposing of it effectively
assassination;an attack intended to ruin someone's reputation
impressive aphasia;aphasia characterized by fluent but meaningless speech and severe impairment of the ability understand spoken or written words
withdrawal symptom;any physical or psychological disturbance (as sweating or depression) experienced by a drug addict when deprived of the drug
stewing;cooking in a boiling liquid
hypoadrenalism;a glandular disorder caused by failure of function of the cortex of the adrenal gland and marked by anemia and prostration with brownish skin
millstone;(figurative) something that hinders or handicaps. 'she was an albatross around his neck'
prodding;a verbalization that encourages you to attempt something
ratbite fever;either of two infectious diseases transmitted to humans by the bite of a rat or mouse. characterized by fever and headache and nausea and skin eruptions
jacksonian epilepsy;focal epilepsy in which the attack usually moves from distal to proximal limb muscles on the same side of the body
trimming;cutting down to the desired size or shape
musca volitans;caused by opaque cell fragments in the vitreous humor and lens
cerebral palsy;a loss or deficiency of motor control with involuntary spasms caused by permanent brain damage present at birth
jugglery;the performance of a juggler
breakdown;a mental or physical breakdown
emotional arousal;the arousal of strong emotions and emotional behavior
stasis;inactivity resulting from a static balance between opposing forces
impairment;damage that results in a reduction of strength or quality
desuetude;a state of inactivity or disuse
synechia;adhesions between the iris and the lens or cornea resulting from trauma or eye surgery of as a complication of glaucoma or cataract. can lead to blindness
plant closing;act of shutting down operation of a plant
bachelor of music;a bachelor's degree in music
apnea;transient cessation of respiration
quiescency;quiet and inactive restfulness
true statement;a true statement. 'he told the truth'. 'he thought of answering with the truth but he knew they wouldn't believe it'
intelligence;secret information about an enemy (or potential enemy). 'we sent out planes to gather intelligence on their radar coverage'
roll;a list of names. 'his name was struck off the rolls'
possibleness;capability of existing or happening or being true. 'there is a possibility that his sense of smell has been impaired'
report;a written evaluation of a student's scholarship and deportment. 'his father signed his report card'
papillary tumor;a benign epithelial tumor forming a rounded mass
associate;a degree granted by a two-year college on successful completion of the undergraduates course of studies
praise;an expression of approval and commendation. 'he always appreciated praise for his work'
cleanness;without moral defects
endurance riding;riding for long hours over long distances
marasmus;extreme malnutrition and emaciation (especially in children). can result from inadequate intake of food or from malabsorption or metabolic disorders
bitch;(slang) an unpleasant difficulty. 'this problem is a real bitch'
canulation;the insertion of a cannula into a body cavity
case;a special set of circumstances. 'in that event, the first possibility is excluded'. 'it may rain in which case the picnic will be canceled'
aas;an associate degree in applied science
band aid;hurried repair
relational database;a database in which relations between information items are explicitly specified as accessible attributes. 'in a relational database the data are organized as a number of differently sized tables'
feigning;pretending with intention to deceive
turn;the act of changing or reversing the direction of the course. 'he took a turn to the right'
march;the act of marching. walking with regular steps (especially in a procession of some kind). 'it was a long march'. 'we heard the sound of marching'
hyperaemia;excessive blood in an organ or other body part
purification;cleaning by getting rid of impurities
bunko game;a swindle in which you cheat at gambling or persuade a person to buy worthless property
aside;a message that departs from the main subject
emotional disorder;any mental disorder not caused by detectable organic abnormalities of the brain and in which a major disturbance of emotions is predominant
eversion;the act of turning inside out
computer architecture;the art of assembling logical elements into a computing device. the specification of the relation between parts of a computer system
hospitality;kindness in welcoming guests or strangers
annulment;an official or legal cancellation
war;a legal state created by a declaration of war and ended by official declaration during which the international rules of war apply. 'war was declared in november but actual fighting did not begin until the following spring'
dampening;making something slightly wet
influence;the effect of one thing (or person) on another. 'the influence of mechanical action'
tax deduction;a reduction in the gross amount on which a tax is calculated. reduces taxes by the percentage fixed for the taxpayer's income bracket
babble;gibberish resembling the sounds of a baby
pneumoconiosis;chronic disease caused by inhaling metallic or mineral particles
proposition;a proposal offered for acceptance or rejection
tick fever;caused by a rickettsia microorganism and transmitted by wood ticks
step up;the act of increasing something. 'he gave me an increase in salary'
decimalisation;the act of changing to a decimal system. 'the decimalization of british currency'
conditional sale;a sale in which the buyer receives title to the property only upon the performance of some condition (usually the full payment of the purchase price)
hypovolemic shock;shock caused by severe blood or fluid loss
denigration;a belittling comment
angiohemophilia;a form of hemophilia discovered by von willebrand
myelitis;inflammation of the spinal cord
anosmia;impairment of the sense of smell (as by damage to olfactory nasal tissue or the olfactory nerve or by obstruction of the nasal passages)
scouring;the act of cleaning a surface by rubbing it with a brush and soap and water
suffering;a state of acute pain
myelofibrosis;fibrosis of the bone marrow
malignant hyperthermia;hereditary condition in which certain anesthetics (e.g., halothane) cause high body temperatures and muscle rigidity
warning;cautionary advice
notice;an announcement containing information about a future event. 'you didn't give me enough notice'
poetic license;license used by a writer or artist to heighten the effect of their work
reflux;an abnormal backward flow of body fluids
twist;the act of winding or twisting. 'he put the key in the old clock and gave it a good wind'
crudity;a natural or unrefined state
negation;the act of negating
synovitis;inflammation of the synovial membrane that lines a synovial joint. results in pain and swelling
arteriosclerosis;sclerosis of the arterial walls
roster;a list of names. 'his name was struck off the rolls'
sneer;a facial expression of contempt or scorn. the upper lip curls
shallow fording;fording at a shallow place
conversion hysteria;a mental disorder characterized by the conversion of mental conflict into somatic forms (into paralysis or anesthesia having no apparent cause)
bareness;the state of being unclothed and exposed (especially of a part of the body)
dissimulation;the act of deceiving
iniquity;morally objectionable behavior
lafora s disease;epilepsy characterized by clonus of muscle groups and progressive mental deterioration and genetic origin
carbuncle;an infection larger than a boil and with several openings for discharge of pus
hypersomnia;an inability to stay awake
condolence;an expression of sympathy with another's grief. 'they sent their condolences'
lope;an smooth 3-beat gait. between a trot and a gallop
burglary;entering a building at night with intent to commit a felony or to steal valuable property
thing;a special situation. 'this thing has got to end'. 'it is a remarkable thing'
schizotypal personality;characterized by symptoms similar to but less severe than schizophrenia
exemption;an act exempting someone. 'he was granted immunity from prosecution'
undernourishment;not having enough food to develop or function formally
dissemination;the act of dispersing something
roll;walking with a rolling gait
chorditis;inflammation of the vocal cords
disinfestation;the activity of getting rid of vermin
mockery;a composition that imitates somebody's style in a humorous way
readjustment;the act of adjusting again (to changed circumstances)
economic condition;"the condition of finances"
le;a chronic inflammatory collagen disease affecting connective tissue (skin or joints)
lupus erythematosus;a chronic inflammatory collagen disease affecting connective tissue (skin or joints)
panencephalitis;inflammation of the entire brain
ascendance;"the state that exists when one person or group has power over another. 'her apparent dominance of her husband was really her attempt to make him pay attention to her'"
tie;the situation in a contest in which the winner is undecided at the end. 'the game ended in a draw'. 'their record was 3 wins, 6 losses and a tie'
noli me tangere;a cancerous ulcer of soft tissue and bone
seborrheic dermatitis;a chronic skin disease associated with seborrhea and greasy scales on the scalp or eyelids or other parts of the skin
ventilation;the act of supplying fresh air and getting rid of foul air
stinking smut;disease of wheat characterized by replacement of the grains with greasy masses of smelly smut spores
shudder;an involuntary vibration (as if from illness or fear)
interpellation;a procedure (in some parliaments) of demanding that a government official explain some act or policy
dyspepsia;a disorder of digestive function characterized by discomfort or heartburn or nausea
lingering;the act of lingering
meddling;altering something secretly or improperly
augmentation;the act of augmenting
tight money;the economic condition in which credit is difficult to secure
palaver;flattery intended to persuade
rubric;an authoritative rule
palm;an award for winning a championship
point;an isolated fact that is considered separately from the whole. 'several of the details are similar'. 'a point of information'
jolt;an abrupt spasmodic movement
anoestrum;applies to nonhuman mammals: a state or interval of sexual inactivity between two periods of estrus
archetype;an original model on which something is patterned
obliquity;the presentation during labor of the head of the fetus at an abnormal angle
assurance;a binding commitment to do or give or refrain from something: 'an assurance of help when needed'. 'signed a pledge never to reveal the secret'
dodging;a statement that evades the question by cleverness or trickery
rock climbing;an act of scaling rock masses on mountain sides
recurrent fever;marked by recurring high fever and transmitted by the bite of infected lice or ticks
sinning;an act that is regarded by theologians as a transgression of god's will
scorch;a surface burn
chronic bronchitis;a form of bronchitis characterized by excess production of sputum leading to a chronic cough and obstruction of air flow
tax avoidance;the minimization of tax liability by lawful methods
glandular disease;a disorder of the glands of the body
moon blindness;inability to see clearly in dim light. due to a deficiency of vitamin a or to a retinal disorder
rabbit punch;a short chopping blow to the back of the neck
venereal wart;a small benign wart on or around the genitals and anus
proposition;(logic) a statement that affirms or denies something and is either true or false
reveille;a signal to get up in the morning. in the military it is a bugle call at sunrise
collapse;the act of throwing yourself down. 'he landed on the bed with a great flop'
invective;the expression of bitter deep-seated ill will. rancor
stupidity;a stupid mistake
stretching;act of expanding by lengthening or widening
smog;air pollution by a mixture of smoke and fog
irritant;something that causes irritation and annoyance. 'he's a thorn in my flesh'
consolidation;the act of combining into an integral whole
datum;an item of factual information derived from measurement or research
violence;a turbulent state resulting in injuries and destruction etc.
circle;movement once around a course. 'he drove an extra lap just for insurance'
bachelor of science;a bachelor's degree in science
sandfly fever;a mild viral disease transmitted by the bite of the sand fly phlebotomus papatasii
state of nature;"a wild primitive state untouched by civilization. 'he lived in the wild'. 'they tried to preserve nature as they found it'"
pneumonia;inflammation of the lungs with congestion caused by viruses or bacteria or irritants
spuriousness;state of lacking genuineness
sudden infant death syndrome;sudden and unexpected death of an apparently healthy infant during sleep
market;"the world of commercial activity where goods and services are bought and sold. 'without competition there would be no market'. 'they were driven from the marketplace'"
bunkum;a ludicrously false statement
charge;an assertion that someone is guilty of a fault or offence. 'the newspaper published charges that jones was guilty of drunken driving'
way;a journey or passage. 'they are on the way'
dichotomization;the act of dividing into two sharply different categories
nadir;an extreme state of adversity. the lowest point of anything
retinitis;inflammation of the retina
air embolism;pain resulting from rapid change in pressure
spasmodic laryngitis;a disease of infants and young children. harsh coughing and hoarseness and fever and difficult breathing
bachelor of medicine;(a british degree) a bachelor's degree in medicine
haemolytic anemia;anemia resulting from destruction of erythrocytes
fibrous dysplasia of bone;a disturbance in which bone that is undergoing lysis is replaced by an abnormal proliferation of fibrous tissue resulting in bone lesions or skin lesions
surmise;a message expressing an opinion based on incomplete evidence
ms;a chronic progressive nervous disorder involving loss of myelin sheath around certain nerve fibers
change of shape;an act that changes the shape of something
dow jones industrial average;an indicator of stock market prices. based on the share values of 30 leading companies listed on the new york stock exchange
moonwalk;a kind of dance step in which the dancer seems to be sliding on the spot. 'michael jackson perfected the moonwalk in the 1980s'
self accusation;an admission that you have failed to do or be something you know you should do or be
blind;something intended to misrepresent the true nature of an activity. 'he wasn't sick--it was just a subterfuge'. 'the holding company was just a blind'
self condemnation;an admission that you have failed to do or be something you know you should do or be
extenuation;to act in such a way as to cause an offense to seem less serious
splenomegaly;an abnormal enlargement of the spleen
nonbeing;"the state of not being"
infantile fixation;an abnormal state in which development has stopped prematurely
anoestrus;applies to nonhuman mammals: a state or interval of sexual inactivity between two periods of estrus
cholangitis;inflammation of the bile ducts
dyslexia;impaired ability to read
sidestroke;a swimming stroke in which the arms move forward and backward while the legs do a scissors kick
kick;a rhythmic thrusting movement of the legs as in swimming or calisthenics. 'the kick must be synchronized with the arm movements'
unification;making or becoming a single unit. 'the union of opposing factions'. 'he looked forward to the unification of his family for the holidays'
slating;a severely critical attack. 'the reviewers gave his book a sound slating'
bd;a bachelor's degree in religion
tennis shot;the act of hitting a tennis ball with a tennis racket
demurrage;detention of a ship or freight car or other cargo beyond its scheduled time of departure
therapeutic abortion;a legally induced abortion for medical reasons (as when the mother's life is threatened)
tyranny;dominance through threat of punishment and violence
falter;the act of pausing uncertainly. 'there was a hesitation in his speech'
proposal;something proposed (as a plan)
confirmation;information that confirms or verifies
extension;act of expanding in scope. making more widely available: 'extension of the program to all in need'
nonstop;a flight made without intermediate landings between source and destination. 'how many nonstops are there to dallas?'
formula;directions for making something
table of contents;a list of divisions (chapters or articles) and the pages on which they start
hyperlipidemia;a blood disorder characterized by the presence of excess lipids in the blood
humbling;depriving one of self-esteem
bacteriemia;transient presence of bacteria (or other microorganisms) in the blood
colitis;inflammation of the colon
deposit;the act of depositing
adornment;the action of decorating yourself with something colorful and interesting
mediterranean fever;contracted from meat or milk products from infected domestic animals
genocide;systematic killing of a racial or cultural group
cremation;the incineration of a dead body
shoes;a particular situation: 'if you were in my place what would you do?'
tension;feelings of hostility that are not manifest. 'he could sense her latent hostility to him'. 'the diplomats' first concern was to reduce international tensions'
intelligence;new information about specific and timely events. 'they awaited news of the outcome'
yachting;water travel for pleasure
corruption;destroying someone's honesty or loyalty or moral integrity: 'corruption of a minor'
sumptuousness;wealth as evidenced by sumptuous living
aspersion;a disparaging remark
approach shot;a relatively short golf shot intended to put the ball onto the putting green. 'he lost the hole when his approach rolled over the green'
calorie chart;a list of foods and information about their caloric content
coherence;the state of cohering
malversation;misconduct in public office
lapsing;a failure to maintain a higher state
preclusion;the act of preventing something by anticipating and disposing of it effectively
molecular formula;a chemical formula based on analysis and molecular weight
nonoccurrence;absence by virtue of not occurring
osteoarthritis;chronic breakdown of cartilage in the joints occurring usually after middle age
doctor of divinity;a doctor's degree in religion
deduction;a reduction in the gross amount on which a tax is calculated. reduces taxes by the percentage fixed for the taxpayer's income bracket
leer;a facial expression of contempt or scorn. the upper lip curls
lynching;putting to death by mob action without due process of law
bite;a wound resulting from biting
caudal anaesthesia;regional anesthesia resulting from injection of an anesthetic into the caudal end of the spinal canal. now largely replaced by epidural anesthesia
catalog;a complete list of things. usually arranged systematically. 'it does not pretend to be a catalogue of his achievements'
tendinitis;inflammation of a tendon
sustenance;the act of sustaining
enclosing;the act of enclosing something inside something else
gastralgia;an ache localized in the stomach or abdominal region
atomization;separating something into fine particles
diversion;a turning aside (of your course or attention or concern): 'a diversion from the main highway'. 'a digression into irrelevant details'. 'a deflection from his goal'
avarice;reprehensible acquisitiveness. insatiable desire for wealth (personified as one of the deadly sins)
instability;an unstable order
disrepair;in need of repairs
conditional contract;a contract whose performance depends on a fact or event that affects legal relations
airworthiness;fitness to fly: 'the plane received a certificate of airworthiness'
success;a state of prosperity or fame. 'he is enjoying great success'. 'he does not consider wealth synonymous with success'
convention;(diplomacy) an international agreement
exclusionary rule;a rule that provides that otherwise admissible evidence cannot be used in a criminal trial if it was the result of illegal police conduct
tinea cruris;fungal infection of the groin (most common in men)
factor;anything that contributes causally to a result. 'a number of factors determined the outcome'
shattering;the act of breaking something into small pieces
metamorphosis;a complete change of physical form or substance especially as by magic or witchcraft
ill luck;an unfortunate state resulting from unfavorable outcomes
split personality;a relatively rare disorder in which the usual integrity of the personality breaks down and two or more independent personalities emerge
sales talk;promotion by means of an argument and demonstration
tying;the act of tying things together
fractionation;separation into portions
clubbing;a condition in which the ends of toes and fingers become wide and thick. a symptom of heart or lung disease
fire raising;malicious burning to destroy property. 'the british term for arson is fire-raising'
pain in the ass;something or someone that causes trouble. a source of unhappiness. 'a bit of a bother'
boarding pass;a pass that allows you to board a ship or plane
anthracosis;lung disease caused by inhaling coal dust
ravenousness;excessive desire to eat
enteritis;inflammation of the intestine
inherence;the state of being within or not going beyond a given domain
decline;"a condition inferior to an earlier condition"
circumvolution;the act of turning or winding or folding around a central axis
yellow dog contract;a now-illegal labor contract whereby the employee agrees not to join a trade union
biliousness;gastric distress caused by a disorder of the liver or gall bladder
coherency;the state of cohering
wind;the act of winding or twisting. 'he put the key in the old clock and gave it a good wind'
pudendal block;regional anesthesia resulting from the use of a local anesthetic to deaden the pudendal nerves in the region of the vulva and labia majora. used to ease discomfort during childbirth
liquidity crisis;a state in which there is a short supply of cash to lend to businesses and consumers
property settlement;(matrimonial law) the division of property owned or acquired by marriage partners during their marriage
inactivity;"the state of being inactive"
complication;a situation or condition that is complex or confused: 'her coming was a serious complication'
hyperpiesis;persistent and pathological high blood pressure for which no specific cause can be found
raynaud s sign;cyanosis of the extremities. can occur when a spasm of the blood vessels is caused by exposure to cold or by strong emotion
remediation;act of correcting an error or a fault or an evil
misdeed;improper or wicked or immoral behavior
finalization;the act of finalizing
subsistence;the state of existing in reality. having substance
honours degree;(great britain) a university degree with honors
superlative;an exaggerated expression (usually of praise). 'the critics lavished superlatives on it'
details;true confidential information. 'after the trial he gave us the real details'
passage;the act of passing from one stage to the next
scoop;a news report that is reported first by one news organization. 'he got a scoop on the bribery of city officials'
glide;the activity of flying a glider
extraction;the act of extracting something
proviso;a stipulated condition. 'he accepted subject to one provision'
trench mouth;an acute communicable infection of the respiratory tract and mouth marked by ulceration of the mucous membrane
yellow dwarf;any of several virus diseases of plants characterized by stunting and yellowing of the leaves
weil s disease;a severe form of leptospirosis in human beings
support;"the activity of providing for or maintaining by supplying with money or necessities. 'his support kept the family together'. 'they gave him emotional support during difficult times'"
luck;"your overall circumstances or condition in life (including everything that happens to you): 'whatever my fortune may be'. 'deserved a better fate'. 'has a happy lot'. 'the luck of the irish'. 'a victim of circumstances'. 'success that was her portion'"
security;the state of being free from danger or injury. 'we support the armed services in the name of national security'
erythema solare;inflammation of the skin caused by exposure to the rays of the sun
hajj;a pilgrimage to mecca. every muslim must make this journey at least once
cannon;a shot in billiards in which the cue ball contacts one object ball and then the other
lip;an impudent or insolent rejoinder. 'don't give me any of your sass'
timelessness;a state of eternal existence believed in some religions to characterize the afterlife
orchitis;inflammation of one or both testes. characterized by pain and swelling
demotion;act of lowering in rank or position
air pollution;pollution of the air
protestation;a strong declaration of protest
athlete s foot;fungal infection of the feet
quiescence;quiet and inactive restfulness
ascendancy;"the state that exists when one person or group has power over another. 'her apparent dominance of her husband was really her attempt to make him pay attention to her'"
tale;a trivial lie. 'he told a fib about eating his spinach'. 'how can i stop my child from telling stories?'
principle;rule of personal conduct
poke;a sharp hand gesture (resembling a blow). 'he warned me with a jab with his finger'. 'he made a thrusting motion with his fist'
lip service;an expression of agreement that is not supported by real conviction
sexual arousal;the arousal of sexual desires in preparation for sexual behavior
crawl;a swimming stroke. arms are moved alternately overhead accompanied by a flutter kick
mortgage application;an application for a mortgage loan
breach of trust with fraudulent intent;larceny after trust rather than after unlawful taking
coup de grace;the blow that kills (usually mercifully)
economic crisis;a long-term economic state characterized by unemployment and low prices and low levels of trade and investment
gula;eating to excess (personified as one of the deadly sins)
miscalculation;a mistake in calculating
incision;the cutting of or into body tissues or organs (especially by a surgeon as part of an operation)
progression;the act of moving forward toward a goal
tumultuousness;a state of commotion and loud confused noise
circumlocution;an indirect way of expressing something
jabbing;a sharp hand gesture (resembling a blow). 'he warned me with a jab with his finger'. 'he made a thrusting motion with his fist'
anorthography;a loss of the ability to write or to express thoughts in writing because of a brain lesion
exclusion;the state of being excommunicated
relapse;a failure to maintain a higher state
misestimation;a mistake in calculating
riot;a joke that seems extremely funny
lyme disease;an inflammatory disease characterized by a rash with joint swelling and fever. caused by the bite of a deer tick
chop shot;a tennis return made with a downward motion that puts backspin on the ball
parts catalogue;a list advertising parts for machinery along with prices
slowdown;the act of slowing down or falling behind
melasma;a tan discoloration of a woman's face that is associated with pregnancy or with the use of oral contraceptives
pretext;something serving to conceal plans. a fictitious reason that is concocted in order to conceal the real reason
gall;an open sore on the back of a horse caused by ill-fitting or badly adjusted saddle
behavior;the action or reaction of something (as a machine or substance) under specified circumstances. 'the behavior of small particles can be studied in experiments'
special;a special offering (usually temporary and at a reduced price) that is featured in advertising. 'they are having a special on pork chops'
swagger;a proud stiff pompous gait
indiscretion;a petty misdeed
disconnection;the act of breaking a connection
recission;cancellation of a contract and the return of the parties to the positions they would have had if the contract had not been made
floater;caused by opaque cell fragments in the vitreous humor and lens
wounding;the act of inflicting a wound
twist;a sharp strain on muscles or ligaments. 'the wrench to his knee occurred as he fell'. 'he was sidelined with a hamstring pull'
upshot;"a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon. 'the magnetic effect was greater when the rod was lengthwise'. 'his decision had depressing consequences for business'"
tacking;(nautical) the act of changing tack
flip;the act of flipping a coin
hemorrhagic septicemia;an acute infectious disease characterized by pneumonia and blood infection
inflation;a act of filling something with air
caisson disease;pain resulting from rapid change in pressure
hecatomb;a great sacrifice. an ancient greek or roman sacrifice of 100 oxen
condition;(usually plural) a statement of what is required as part of an agreement. 'the contract set out the conditons of the lease'. 'the terms of the treaty were generous'
insecurity;the state of being subject to danger or injury
sunday punch;a hard punch that renders the opponent unable to continue boxing
check;the state of inactivity following an interruption. 'the negotiations were in arrest'. 'held them in check'. 'during the halt he got some lunch'. 'he spent the entire stay in his room'
popularization;an interpretation that easily understandable and acceptable
electrolyte balance;an equilibrium between the amounts of electrolytes (as calcium and sodium and potassium) that is essential for normal health and functioning
alliance;the state of being allied or confederated
anchylosis;abnormal adhesion and rigidity of the bones of a joint
drainage;emptying accomplished by draining
endometrial carcinoma;cancer of the uterine lining
sarcasm;witty language used to convey insults or scorn. 'he used sarcasm to upset his opponent'. 'irony is wasted on the stupid'
comedown;decline to a lower status or level
thievery;the act of stealing. 'the thieving is awful at kennedy international'
waggery;waggish behavior
acknowledgment;a statement acknowledging something or someone
condyloma acuminatum;a small benign wart on or around the genitals and anus
skip;a gait in which steps and hops alternate
cacogenesis;inability to produce hybrids that are both viable and fertile
detail;an isolated fact that is considered separately from the whole. 'several of the details are similar'. 'a point of information'
going over;a severe scolding
stealing;the act of stealing. 'the thieving is awful at kennedy international'
visual aphasia;inability to perceive written words
gassing;the deliberate act of poisoning someone with gas
situation;"a condition or position in which you find yourself: 'the unpleasant situation (or position) of having to choose between two evils'. 'found herself in a very fortunate situation'"
venereal disease;a communicable disease transmitted by sexual intercourse or genital contact
withdrawal;the act of taking out money or other capital
demonetization;ending something (e.g. gold or silver) as no longer the legal tender of a country
exhaustion;the act of exhausting something entirely
hypoplasia;underdevelopment of an organ because of a decrease in the number of cells
dyskinesia;abnormality in performing voluntary muscle movements
treason;an act of deliberate betrayal
homelessness;"the state or condition of having no home (especially the state of living in the streets)"
contraction;(physiology) a shortening or tensing of a part or organ (especially of a muscle or muscle fiber)
shot;(informal) a chance to do something. 'he wanted a shot at the champion'
escape;nonperformance of something distasteful (as by deceit or trickery) that you are supposed to do. 'his evasion of his clear duty was reprehensible'. 'that escape from the consequences is possible but unattractive'
shirring;baking shelled eggs
limp;the uneven manner of walking that results from an injured leg
sales event;an occasion (usually brief) for buying at specially reduced prices. 'they held a sale to reduce their inventory'. 'i got some great bargains at their annual sale'
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease;a nonreversible lung disease that is a combination of emphysema and chronic bronchitis. usually patients have been heavy cigarette smokers
transplant;the act of uprooting and moving a plant to a new location
abasement;depriving one of self-esteem
bugaboo;a source of concern. 'the old bugaboo of inflation still bothers them'
cholelithiasis;the presence of gallstones in the gallbladder
testimonial;something given or done as an expression of esteem
precondition;an assumption on which rests the validity or effect of something else
wheeziness;presence of abnormal high-pitched sound heard with a stethoscope when an airway is blocked (as in asthma or chronic bronchitis)
squamous cell carcinoma;the most common form of skin cancer
hazardousness;the state of being dangerous
stagger;an unsteady uneven gait
minimisation;the act of minimizing something
old world leishmaniasis;leishmaniasis of the skin. characterized by ulcerative skin lesions
stimulation;"any stimulating information or event. acts to arouse action"
whitlow;a purulent infection at the end of a finger or toe in the area surrounding the nail
excitement;something that excites. 'he looked forward to the excitements of the day'
deprivation;a state of extreme poverty
philistinism;a desire for wealth and material possessions with little interest in ethical or spiritual matters
deviance;an aberrant state or condition
depiction;a graphic or vivid verbal description. 'too often the narrative was interrupted by long word pictures'. 'the author gives a depressing picture of life in poland'
ma;a master's degree in arts and sciences
werlhof s disease;purpura of unknown origin associated with a reduction in circulating blood platelets
upturn;an upward movement or trend as in business activity
tumultuous disturbance;a sudden violent disturbance
balance of power;an equilibrium of power between nations
encompassment;including entirely
goodby;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
shot;a blow hard enough to cause injury. 'he is still recovering from a shot to his leg'. 'i caught him with a solid shot to the chin'
devastation;termination by an act of destruction
pronation;rotation of the hands and forearms so that the palms face downward
fecundation;making fertile as by applying fertilizer or manure
otitis;inflammation of the ear
acromikria;abnormally small extremities (underdeveloped fingers and toes)
stultification;the act of making something futile and useless (as by routine)
grand mal epilepsy;epilepsy in which the attack involves loss of consciousness and tonic spasms of the musculature followed by generalized jerking
incident;a public disturbance: 'the police investigated an incident at the bus station'
midi;a standard protocol for communication between electronic musical instruments and computers
cartoon;a humorous or satirical drawing published in a newspaper or magazine
alphabet;a character set that includes letters
flush;a rosy color (especially in the cheeks) taken as a sign of good health
vituperation;the expression of bitter deep-seated ill will. rancor
clap;a common venereal disease caused by the bacterium neisseria gonorrhoeae. symptoms are painful urination and pain around the urethra
busman s holiday;a holiday where you do the same things you do at work
temptation;something tempting or enticing
horizontal combination;absorption into a single firm of several firms involved in the same level of production and sharing resources at that level
pound;the act of pounding (delivering repeated heavy blows). 'the sudden hammer of fists caught him off guard'. 'the pounding of feet on the hallway'
pun;a humorous play on words. 'i do it for the pun of it'
discontinuance;the act of discontinuing
master in public affairs;a master's degree in questions of public concern
mountaineering;the activity of climbing a mountain
arrhythmia;an abnormal heartbeat rhythm
witness;testimony by word or deed to your religious faith
banter;light teasing repartee
dirty story;an indelicate joke
converse;(logic) a proposition obtained by conversion
correcting;the act of offering an improvement to replace a mistake
misery;a state of ill-being due to affliction or misfortune. 'the misery and wretchedness of those slums is intolerable'
confidence game;a swindle in which you cheat at gambling or persuade a person to buy worthless property
walkabout;a walking trip or tour
distinguished flying cross;a us airforce decoration for heroism while participating in an aerial flight
acid precipitation;rain containing acids that form in the atmosphere when industrial gas emissions combine with water
sex linked disorder;any disease or abnormality that is determined by the sex hormones. 'hemophilia is determined by a gene defect on an x chromosome'
misplay;(baseball) a failure of a defensive player to make an out when normal play would have sufficed
ferment;a state of agitation or turbulent change or development: 'the political ferment produced a new leadership'. 'social unrest'
decay;an inferior state resulting from the process of decaying. 'the corpse was in an advanced state of decay'. 'the house had fallen into a serious state of decay and disrepair'
febricity;a rise in the temperature of the body. frequently a symptom of infection
release;the act of allowing a fluid to escape
fact;a statement or assertion of verified information about something that is the case or has happened. 'he supported his argument with an impressive array of facts'
thermic fever;sudden prostration due to exposure to the sun or excessive heat
federalisation;the state of being federalized. 'the federalization of postal service'
size;(informal) the actual state of affairs. 'that's the size of the situation'. 'she hates me, that's about the size of it'
heaves;a chronic emphysema of the horse that causes difficult expiration and heaving of the flanks
material;information (data or ideas or observations) that can be reworked into a finished form. 'the archives provided rich material for a definitive biography'
subterfuge;something intended to misrepresent the true nature of an activity. 'he wasn't sick--it was just a subterfuge'. 'the holding company was just a blind'
low water mark;an extreme state of adversity. the lowest point of anything
contagious abortion;an infectious disease often resulting in abortion. transmittable to humans through contaminated milk
huntington s chorea;hereditary. develops in adulthood and ends in dementia
shave;the act of removing hair with a razor
imponderable;a factor whose effects cannot be accurately assessed: 'human behavior depends on many imponderables'
thieving;the act of stealing. 'the thieving is awful at kennedy international'
associate in nursing;an associate degree in nursing
epidemic myalgia;an acute infectious disease occurring in epidemic form and featuring paroxysms of pain (usually in the chest)
phlebotomus;a mild viral disease transmitted by the bite of the sand fly phlebotomus papatasii
data point;an item of factual information derived from measurement or research
conclusion;the act of ending something. 'the termination of the agreement'
accusation;an assertion that someone is guilty of a fault or offence. 'the newspaper published charges that jones was guilty of drunken driving'
harikari;(japan) ritual suicide by self-disembowlment on a sword
calumny;a malicious attack
lampoon;a composition that imitates somebody's style in a humorous way
institution;starting something for the first time
sting;something as sudden and painful as a sting. 'the sting of death'
recession;the state of the economy declines. a widespread decline in the gdp and employment and trade lasting from six months to a year
countersign;a secret word or phrase known only to a restricted group. 'he forgot the password'
good health;the state of being vigorous and free from bodily or mental disease
minor premise;the premise of a syllogism that contains the minor term (which is the subject of the conclusion)
foul up;an embarrassing mistake
pandemonium;a state of extreme confusion and disorder
categorical imperative;the moral principle that behavior should be determined by duty
embryonal carcinoma;malignant neoplasm of the testis
projection;the act of projecting out from something
sick headache;a severe recurring vascular headache. occur more frequently in women than men
ease;a freedom from financial difficulty that promotes a comfortable state: 'a life of luxury and ease'. 'he had all the material comforts of this world'
mask of pregnancy;a tan discoloration of a woman's face that is associated with pregnancy or with the use of oral contraceptives
bruise;an injury that doesn't break the skin but results in some discoloration
restatement;a revised statement
licensing agreement;contract giving someone the legal right to use a patent or trademark
betise;a stupid mistake
excursion;a journey taken for pleasure. 'many summer excursions to the shore'. 'it was merely a pleasure trip'. 'after cautious sashays into the field'
subjunction;the act of supplementing
insurance policy;written contract or certificate of insurance. 'you should have read the small print on your policy'
upkeep;the act of sustaining
psychopathic personality;an antisocial personality disorder. capable of violent acts without guilt feelings ('psychopathic personality' was once widely used but has now been superseded by 'sociopathic personality' to indicate the social aspects of the disorder)
preaching;a moralistic rebuke. 'your preaching is wasted on him'
word;a secret word or phrase known only to a restricted group. 'he forgot the password'
zoster;eruptions along a nerve path often accompanied by severe neuralgia
space travel;a voyage outside the earth's atmosphere
reclamation;the conversion of waste land into land suitable for use of habitation or cultivation
reduction;the act of reducing complexity
watchword;a secret word or phrase known only to a restricted group. 'he forgot the password'
pernicious anemia;a chronic progressive anemia of older adults. thought to result from a lack of intrinsic factor (a substance secreted by the stomach that is responsible for the absorption of vitamin b-12)
chestnut blight;a disease of american chestnut trees
granting immunity;an act exempting someone. 'he was granted immunity from prosecution'
deterrence;the act or process of deterring
conclusion;a final settlement. 'the conclusion of a business deal'. 'the conclusion of the peace treaty'
acrostic;a puzzle where you fill a square grid with words reading the same down as across
discord;lack of agreement or harmony
fusion;the act of fusing (or melting) together
aplastic anemia;anemia characterized by pancytopenia resulting from failure of the bone marrow. can be caused by neoplasm or by toxic exposure
hyperlipidaemia;a blood disorder characterized by the presence of excess lipids in the blood
liberty;immunity from arbitrary exercise of authority: political independence
swan song;a final appearance or performance before retirement
conceivableness;the state of being conceivable
fantods;an ill-defined state of irritability and distress
attachment;the act of attaching something
fabrication;the deliberate act of deviating from the truth
posterior synechia;adhesion between the iris and the lens
lunge;the act of moving forward suddenly
hodgkin s disease;a malignant disorder in which there is progressive (but painless) enlargement of lymph tissue followed by enlargement of the spleen and liver
swing;in baseball. a batter's attempt to hit a pitched ball. 'he took a vicious cut at the ball'
repercussion;a remote or indirect consequence of some action. 'his declaration had unforeseen repercussions'
atypicality;any state that is not typical
tapering;the act of gradually lowering the size or amount. 'the doctor prescribed the tapering of the dose'
blepharitis;inflammation of the eyelids characterized by redness and swelling and dried crusts
phlebitis;inflammation of a vein
fiction;a deliberately false or improbable account
cervicofacial actinomycosis;the commonest and least severe form of actinomycosis. affects the face and neck regions
evocation;stimulation that calls up (evokes or induces or elicits) a particular class of behaviors
chronic renal failure;renal failure that can result from a variety of systemic disorders
symptom;(medical) any sensation or change in bodily function that is experienced by a patient and is associated with a particular disease
heckling;shouting to interrupt a speech with which you disagree
elephantiasis;hypertrophy of certain body parts (usually legs and scrotum). the end state of the disease filariasis
side effect;any unwanted secondary effect
mumps;an acute contagious viral disease characterized by fever and by swelling of the parotid glands
crop failure;the failure of crops to produce a marketable surplus
cut;the act of cutting something into parts. 'his cuts were skillful'. 'his cutting of the cake made a terrible mess'
impudence;an impudent statement
lightening;changing to a lighter color
afterpains;pains felt by a woman after her baby is born. associated with contractions of the uterus
partnership;a contract between two or more persons who agree to pool talent and money and share profits or losses
spielmeyer vogt disease;a congenital progressive disorder of lipid metabolism having an onset at age 5 and characterized by blindness and dementia and early death
place kick;a kick (in soccer or football) in which the ball is placed on the ground before kicking
deposition;the act of depositing
influence;a cognitive factor that tends to have an effect on what you do. 'her wishes had a great influence on his thinking'
ptomaine poisoning;illness caused by poisonous or contaminated food
stumper;a particularly difficult or baffling question or problem
testimonial;something that recommends (or expresses commendation)
fallot s tetralogy;a congenital heart disease producing cyanosis
crack;the act of cracking something
topic;the subject matter of a conversation or discussion. 'he didn't want to discuss that subject'. 'it was a very sensitive topic'. 'his letters were always on the theme of love'
standing;the act of assuming or maintaining an erect upright position
loadstar;something that serves as a model or guide
ophthalmia neonatorum;ophthalmia in newborns. contracted while passing through the birth canal. usually prevented with silver nitrate drops
fracture;breaking of hard tissue such as bone. 'it was a nasty fracture'. 'the break seems to have been caused by a fall'
eczema;generic term for inflammatory conditions of the skin
rape;the crime of forcing a woman to submit to sexual intercourse against her will
acantholysis;a breakdown of a cell layer in the epidermis (as in pemphigus)
irregularity;irregular and infrequent or difficult evacuation of the bowels. can be a symptom of intestinal obstruction or diverticulitis
genu valgum;inward slant of the thigh
cohesion;the state of cohering
agranulocytosis;an acute blood disorder (often caused by radiation or drug therapy) characterized by severe reduction in granulocytes
adduction;(physiology) moving of a body part toward the central axis of the body
necrology;a list of people who died recently
atrophy;a decrease in size of an organ caused by disease or disuse
alliance;a formal agreement establishing an association or alliance between nations or other groups to achieve a particular aim
pinch;an injury resulting from getting some body part squeezed
buccaneering;robbery on the high seas. taking a ship away from the control of those who are legally entitled to it
alkaluria;a condition in which the urine (which is normally slightly acidic) is alkaline
headache;pain in the head caused by dilation of cerebral arteries or muscle contractions or a reaction to drugs
atrial fibrillation;fibrillation of the muscles of the atria of the heart
moeller s glossitis;a superficial form of glossitis marked by irregular red patches on the tongue and sensitivity to hot or spicy food
downswing;a worsening of business or economic activity. 'the market took a downturn'
beat;a stroke or blow. 'the signal was two beats on the steam pipe'
anarchy;a state of lawlessness and disorder (usually resulting from a failure of government)
stymie;a situation in golf where an opponent's ball blocks the line between your ball and the hole
dry cleaning;the act of cleaning (fabrics) with a solvent other than water
misapplication;the fraudulent appropriation of funds or property entrusted to your care but actually owned by someone else
mental disorder;(psychiatry) a psychological disorder of thought or emotion. a more neutral term than mental illness
breakage;the act of breaking something. 'the breakage was unavoidable'
niemann pick disease;a disorder of lipid metabolism that is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait
imprimatur;formal and explicit approval
nosebleed;bleeding from the nose
trip;a light or nimble tread. 'he heard the trip of women's feet overhead'
cabala;an esoteric or occult matter that is traditionally secret
night blindness;inability to see clearly in dim light. due to a deficiency of vitamin a or to a retinal disorder
infraction;a crime less serious than a felony
job;a state of difficulty that needs to be resolved. 'she and her husband are having problems'. 'it is always a job to contact him'. 'urban problems such as traffic congestion and smog'
amends;compensation (given or received) for an injury or insult. 'an act for which there is no reparation'. 'how can i make amends?'
blot;an act that brings discredit to the person who does it. 'he made a huge blot on his copybook'
sneering;a contemptuous or scornful remark
ubiquity;the state of being everywhere at once (or seeming to be everywhere at once)
mosquito bite;a sting inflicted by a mosquito
drepanocytic anemia;a congenital form of anemia occurring mostly in blacks. characterized by abnormal blood cells having a crescent shape
place;a particular situation: 'if you were in my place what would you do?'
virginity;"the condition or quality of being a virgin"
mess;informal terms for a difficult situation. 'he got into a terrible fix'. 'he made a muddle of his marriage'
determiner;a determining or causal element or factor: 'education is an important determinant of one's outlook onlife'
chilblain;inflammation of the hands and feet caused by exposure to cold and moisture
misappropriation;the fraudulent appropriation of funds or property entrusted to your care but actually owned by someone else
thrombopenia;a blood disease characterized by an abnormally small number of platelets in the blood
piracy;robbery on the high seas. taking a ship away from the control of those who are legally entitled to it
psychotic depression;a state of depression so severe that the person loses contact with reality and suffers a variety of functional impairments
spinal anaesthesia;anesthesia of the lower half of the body. caused by injury to the spinal cord or by injecting an anesthetic beneath the arachnoid membrane that surrounds the spinal cord
cutback;a reduction in quantity or rate
dawdling;the deliberate act of wasting time instead of working
sack;the act of terminating someone's employment
systolic murmur;a murmur heard during systole
focalisation;the act of bringing into focus
worry;something or someone that causes anxiety. a source of unhappiness. 'new york traffic is a constant concern'. 'it's a major worry'
playbill;a theatrical program. 'he couldn't find her name on the playbill'
circumstance;"information that should be kept in mind when making a decision. 'another consideration is the time it would take'"
trickery;the use of tricks to deceive someone (usually to extract money from them)
attainableness;the state of being achievable
occlusion;the act of blocking
total aphasia;loss of all ability to communicate
ophthalmia;severe conjunctivitis
botch;an embarrassing mistake
voracity;excessive desire to eat
elimination;the act of removing or getting rid of something
alphanumerics;a character set that includes letters and digits and punctuation marks
gyp;a swindle in which you cheat at gambling or persuade a person to buy worthless property
invalidism;chronic ill health
price level;an index that traces the relative changes in the price of an individual good (or a market basket of goods) over time
goiter;enlarged thyroid gland resulting from iodine deficiency
forecast;a prediction about how something (as the weather) will develop
rachitis;inflammation of the vertebral column
deadening;the act of making something futile and useless (as by routine)
swimming stroke;a method of moving the arms and legs to push against the water and propel the swimmer forward
pyorrhea;discharge of pus
assurance;a statement intended to inspire confidence. 'the president's assurances were not respected'
smallpox;a highly contagious viral disease characterized by fever and weakness and skin eruption with pustules that form scabs that slough off leaving scars
castigation;a severe scolding
conceivability;the state of being conceivable
toasting;cooking to a brown crispiness over a fire or on a grill
statement;a message that is stated or declared. a communication (oral or written) setting forth particulars or facts etc. 'according to his statement he was in london on that day'
paralysis;loss of the ability to move a body part
shortening;act of decreasing in length: 'the dress needs shortening'
bite;a painful wound caused by the thrust of a stinger into skin
gore;the shedding of blood resulting in murder. 'he avenged the blood of his kinsmen'
blight;any plant disease resulting in withering without rotting
congestion;excessive crowding. 'traffic congestion'
melanosis;a condition characterized by abnormal deposits of melanin (especially in the skin)
retroversion;returning to a former state
flurry;a rapid bustling commotion
misconstrual;a deliberate misinterpretation
diaphragmatic pleurisy;an acute infectious disease occurring in epidemic form and featuring paroxysms of pain (usually in the chest)
cancellation;the act of cancelling. calling off some arrangement
drawing;act of getting or draining something such as electricity or a liquid from a source: 'the drawing of water from the well'
hook;a short swinging punch delivered from the side with the elbow bent
heatstroke;collapse caused by exposure to excessive heat
rub;an unforeseen obstacle
cut;the act of penetrating or opening open with a sharp edge. 'his cut in the lining revealed the hidden jewels'
superfecta;a bet that you can pick the first four finishers in a race in the right order
recompense;the act of compensating for loss or injury
discoid lupus erythematosus;a chronic skin disease occurring primarily in women between the ages of 20 and 40. characterized by an eruption of red lesions over the cheeks and bridge of the nose
vagabondage;travelling about without any clear destination
thigh slapper;a joke that seems extremely funny
heart murmur;an abnormal sound of the heart. sometimes a sign of abnormal heart function
occurrence;an instance of something occurring. 'a disease of frequent occurrence'. 'the occurrence (or presence) of life on other planets'
impersonation;a representation of a person that is exaggerated for comic effect
rut;applies to nonhuman mammals: a state or period of heightened sexual arousal and activity
twentieth amendment;an amendment to the constitution of the united state adopted in 1920. guarantees that no state can deny the right to vote on the basis of sex
anti takeover defense;resistance to or defense against a hostile takeover
plea of insanity;(criminal law) a plea in which the defendant claims innocence due to mental incompetence at the time
conge;an abrupt and unceremonious dismissal
imputation;a statement attributing something dishonest (especially a criminal offense). 'he denied the imputation'
vote of confidence;an expression of approval and encouragement. 'they gave the chairman a vote of confidence'
passing comment;an incidental remark
termination;the act of ending something. 'the termination of the agreement'
logrolling;rotating a log rapidly in the water (as a competitive sport)
ideological barrier;a barrier to cooperation or interaction resulting from conflicting ideologies
fillip;anything that tends to arouse. 'his approval was an added fillip'
doctor of theology;a doctor's degree in theology
short account;the aggregate of short sales on an open market
abduction;(physiology) moving of a body part away from the central axis of the body
master of education;a master's degree in education
megrim;a severe recurring vascular headache. occur more frequently in women than men
bother;something or someone that causes trouble. a source of unhappiness. 'a bit of a bother'
offer;something offered (as a proposal or bid). 'noteworthy new offerings for investors included several index funds'
putt;hitting a golf ball on the putting surface with a putter
pasteurization;partial sterilization of foods at a temperature that destroys harmful microorganisms without major changes in the chemistry of the food
dehumanisation;the act of degrading people with respect to their best qualities. 'science has been blamed for the dehumanization of modern life'
talking point;an especially persuasive point helping to support an argument or discussion
dominance;"the state that exists when one person or group has power over another. 'her apparent dominance of her husband was really her attempt to make him pay attention to her'"
facade;a showy misrepresentation intended to conceal something unpleasant
rheumatoid spondylitis;a chronic form of spondylitis primarily in males and marked by impaired mobility of the spine. sometimes leads to ankylosis
cachexia;any general wasting of body and mind resulting from any debilitating chronic disease
sedation;a state of reduced excitement or anxiety that is induced by the administrative of a sedative agent
complicity;guilt as an accomplice in a crime or offense
logbook;a book in which the log is written
profanation;blasphemous behavior
card;a list of dishes available at a restaurant. 'the menu was in french'
ketonemia;an abnormal increase of ketone bodies in the blood as in diabetes mellitus
gonorrhea;a common venereal disease caused by the bacterium neisseria gonorrhoeae. symptoms are painful urination and pain around the urethra
narcolepsy;a sleep disorder characterized by sudden and uncontrollable episodes of deep sleep. 'he believes that narcolepsy is attributable to an inability to suppress rem sleep during waking'
progress report;a report of work accomplished during a specified time period
misrepresentation;a willful act of falsifying
famishment;a state of extreme hunger resulting from lack of essential nutrients over a prolonged period
waking up;the act of waking. 'it was a rude awakening'. 'it was the waking up he hated most'
red herring;any diversion intended to distract attention from the main issue
ureteritis;inflammation of the ureter
stutter;a speech disorder involving hesitations and involuntary repetitions of certain sounds
driving;hitting a golf ball off of a tee with a driver. 'he sliced his drive out of bounds'
minor premiss;the premise of a syllogism that contains the minor term (which is the subject of the conclusion)
acholia;a condition in which little or no bile is secreted or the flow of bile into the digestive tract is obstructed
organisation;the act of forming something. 'the constitution of a pta group'. 'he still remembers the establishment of the hospital'
impacted tooth;a condition in which a tooth is so crowded in its socket that it cannot erupt normally
overhead;a hard return hitting the tennis ball above your head
mitral valve prolapse;cardiopathy resulting from the mitral valve not regulating the flow of blood between the left atrium and left ventricle of the heart
tender;a proposal to buy at a specified price
salute;a formal military gesture of respect
imposition;an uncalled-for burden. 'he listened but resented the imposition'
halt;the state of inactivity following an interruption. 'the negotiations were in arrest'. 'held them in check'. 'during the halt he got some lunch'. 'he spent the entire stay in his room'
social disease;a communicable disease transmitted by sexual intercourse or genital contact
clarification;an interpretation that clears up ambiguity. 'the professor's clarification helped her to understand the textbook'
broadside;an advertisement (usually printed on a page or in a leaflet) intended for wide distribution. 'he mailed the circular to all subscribers'
switching;the act of changing one thing or position for another. 'his switch on abortion cost him the election'
closure by compartment;closure imposed on the debate of specific sections of a bill
concatenation;the act of linking together as in a series or chain
miasma;unhealthy vapors rising from the ground or other sources. 'the miasma of the marshes' or 'a miasma of cigar smoke'
hemophilia a;hemophilia caused by a congenital deficiency of factor viii. occurs almost exclusively in men
ingathering;request for a sum of money (as in church)
translation;the act of uniform movement
allegation;a formal accusation against somebody
agoraphobia;a morbid fear of open spaces (as fear of being caught alone in some public place)
agalactia;a condition in which milk is not secreted in the mother's breasts after her child has been delivered
dalliance;the deliberate act of wasting time instead of working
respect;(usually preceded by 'in') a detail or point. 'it differs in that respect'
mayhem;the willful and unlawful crippling or mutilation of another person
emergency;a state in which martial law applies. 'the governor declared a state of emergency'
trot;a gait faster than a walk. diagonally opposite legs strike the ground together
truism;an obvious truth
riot;a state of disorder involving group violence
colpocystocele;hernia in which the urinary bladder protrudes through the wall of the vagina. sometimes occurs after childbirth
appeal;request for a sum of money (as in church)
make believe;the enactment of a pretense
reentry;the act of entering again
anergy;inactivity and lack of energy
riskiness;a state of danger involving risk
spin;the act of rotating rapidly. 'he gave the crank a spin'. 'it broke off after much twisting'
wryneck;an unnatural condition in which the head leans to one side because the neck muscles on that side are contracted
amnestic aphasia;inability to name objects or to recognize written or spoken names of objects
focal infection;bacterial infection limited to a specific organ or region especially one causing symptoms elsewhere
brown rot gummosis;disease of citrus trees caused by the fungus phytophthora citrophthora
sweepstakes;a lottery in which the prize consists of the money paid by the participants
sunstroke;sudden prostration due to exposure to the sun or excessive heat
anuresis;inability to urinate
crown gall;a bacterial disease of plants (especially pome and stone fruits and grapes and roses) which forms excrescences on the stem near the ground
stride;significant progress (especially in the phrase 'make strides' or 'make rapid strides')
rise;the act of changing location in an upward direction
slur;a disparaging remark
naught;complete failure. 'all my efforts led to naught'
ad;a public promotion of some product or service
mange;an persistent and contagious disease of the skin causing inflammation and itching and loss of hair. affects domestic animals (and sometimes people)
transferral;the act of transporting something from one location to another
achlorhydria;an abnormal deficiency or absence of free hydrochloric acid in the gastric juice. often associated with severe anemias and cancer of the stomach
acknowledgement;the state or quality of being recognized or acknowledged
dandy fever;an infectious disease of the tropics transmitted by mosquitoes and characterized by rash and aching head and joints
traversal;travel across
statement;a nonverbal message. 'a cadillac makes a statement about who you are'. 'his tantrums are a statement of his need for attention'
capitulation;the act of surrendering (under agreed conditions). 'they were protected until the capitulation of the fort'
mix up;a mistake that results from taking one thing to be another. 'he changed his name in order to avoid confusion with the notorious outlaw'
forced sale;a sale of property by the sheriff under authority of a court's judgment in order satisfy and unpaid obligation
purpura;any of several blood diseases causing subcutaneous bleeding
jim crow;barrier preventing blacks from participating in various activities with whites
course of study;a course of academic studies. 'he was admitted to a new program at the university'
sleep;a natural and periodic state of rest during which consciousness of the world is suspended. 'he didn't get enough sleep last night'. 'calm as a child in dreamless slumber'
sovereignty;royal authority. the dominion of a monarch
profligacy;dissolute indulgence in sensual pleasure
renovation;the state of being restored to its former good condition. 'the inn was a renovation of a colonial house'
decrepitude;a state of deterioration due to old age or long use
papule;a small inflamed elevation of skin that is nonsuppurative
pirouette;a rapid spin of the body (especially on the toes as in ballet)
gag rule;a rule for ending debate in a deliberative body
drug withdrawal;the termination of drug taking
gimp;disability of walking due to crippling of the legs or feet
backpacking;carrying something in a pack on the back. 'the backpacking of oxygen is essential for astronauts'
insulin shock;hypoglycemia produced by excessive insulin in the system causing coma
free rein;the removal of constraints. 'he gave free rein to his impulses'. 'they gave full play to the artist's talent'
agammaglobulinemia;a rare immunological disorder characterized by the virtual absence of gamma globulin in the blood and consequent susceptibility to infection
fal la;meaningless syllables in the refrain of a part-song
hemiplegia;paralysis of one side of the body
sloppiness;untidiness in personal appearance
instilment;the introduction of a liquid (by pouring or injection) drop by drop
asphyxiation;killing by depriving of oxygen
occurrence;"an event that happens"
impecuniousness;a state of lacking money
scratch;an abraded area where the skin is torn or worn off
forward motion;the act of moving forward toward a goal
ulitis;inflammation of the gums
anorthopia;distorted vision in which straight lines appear curved
celery blight;a fungous leaf spot disease of the celery plant
aa;an associate degree in arts
nerve deafness;hearing loss due to failure of the auditory nerve
wake;the consequences of an event (especially a catastrophic event). 'the aftermath of war'. 'in the wake of the accident no one knew how many had been injured'
span;the act of sitting or standing astride
value statement;a statement of the desirability of something
story;a trivial lie. 'he told a fib about eating his spinach'. 'how can i stop my child from telling stories?'
game of chance;a game that involves gambling
jejunoileitis;inflammation of the jejunum and the ileum of the small intestine
return;a tennis stroke that returns the ball to the other player. 'he won the point on a cross-court return'
arcanum;information known only to a special group. 'the secret of cajun cooking'
province;the proper sphere or extent of your activities. 'it was his province to take care of himself'
bubo;a lymph node that is inflamed and swollen because of plague or gonorrhea or tuberculosis
splash;the act of scattering water about haphazardly
bankruptcy;a state of complete lack of some abstract property. 'spiritual bankruptcy'. 'moral bankruptcy'. 'intellectual bankruptcy'
needle cast;a disease of conifers causing the needles to fall
cogent evidence;any factual evidence that helps to establish the truth of something. 'if you have any proof for what you say, now is the time to produce it'
propaganda;information that is spread for the purpose of promoting some cause
cheating;a deception for profit to yourself
rule;dominance or power through legal authority. 'france held undisputed dominion over vast areas of africa'. 'the rule of caesar'
varsity letter;an award earned by participation in a school sport. 'he won letters in three sports'
background;the state of the environment in which a situation exists. 'you can't do that in a university setting'
self incrimination;an accusation that incriminates yourself
united states constitution;the constitution written at the constitutional convention in philadelphia in 1787 and subsequently ratified by the original thirteen states
submission;a message submitted in a competition
complicating;the act or process of complicating
bachelor of arts in nursing;a bachelor's degree in nursing
swimming kick;a movement of the legs in swimming
cyst;a closed sac that develops abnormally in some body structure
smirch;an act that brings discredit to the person who does it. 'he made a huge blot on his copybook'
discourtesy;an expression of lack of respect
ache;a dull persistent (usually moderately intense) pain
specification;a detailed description of design criteria for a piece of work
parricide;murder of your own parents
white paper;a government report. bound in white
overhauling;periodic maintenance on a car or machine. 'it was time for an overhaul on the tractor'
omniscience;"the state of being omniscient. having infinite knowledge"
chance medley;unpremeditated killing of a human being in self defense
murrain;any plaguelike disease of domestic animals
master of science;a master's degree in science
crap;a ludicrously false statement
distraction;the act of distracting. drawing someone's attention away from something
knock knee;inward slant of the thigh
request;a formal message requesting something submitted to an authority
lobar pneumonia;inflammation of the lungs with congestion caused by viruses or bacteria or irritants
flood;a large flow
disability of walking;a disability that interferes with or prevents walking
disease;hyperthyroidism with protrusion of the eyeballs
neurotic depression;a term used for any state of depression that is not psychotic
elucidation;an interpretation that clears up ambiguity. 'the professor's clarification helped her to understand the textbook'
chance;a possibility due to a favorable combination of circumstances. 'the holiday gave us the opportunity to visit washington'. 'now is your chance'
osteomyelitis;an inflammation of bone and bone marrow (usually caused by bacterial infection)
disaster;a state of extreme (usually irremediable) ruin and misfortune. 'lack of funds has resulted in a catastrophe for our school system'. 'his policies were a disaster'
immorality;morally objectionable behavior
card;a written greeting that is left to indicate that you have visited
salutation;(usually plural) an acknowledgment or expression of good will (especially on meeting)
defamation;a malicious attack
caffeinism;poisoning resulting from excessive intake of caffeine containing products
change of course;a change in the direction that you are moving
uvulitis;inflammation of the uvula
osteopetrosis;an inherited disorder characterized by an increase in bone density. in severe forms the bone marrow cavity may be obliterated
keratoscleritis;inflammation of the cornea and sclera of the eye
delta hepatitis;a severe form of hepatitis
emptying;the act of removing the contents of something
swoop;a swift descent through the air
traumatophobia;a morbid fear of battle or physical injury
protocol;(computer science) rules determining the format and transmission of data
seborrhea;a condition in which overactivity of the sebaceous glands causes the skin to become oily
climate;the weather in some location averaged over some long period of time
infectious hepatitis;minor form of viral hepatitis caused by an rna virus and transmitted by ingesting contaminated food or drink
panegyric;a formal expression of praise
shock;(pathology) bodily collapse or near collapse caused by inadequate oxygen delivery to the cells. caused by loss of circulating blood or cardiac arrest or obstruction or poor distribution of the blood flow. characterized by reduced cardiac output and rapid heartbeat and circulatory insufficiency and pallor
assassination;murder of a public figure by surprise attack
cheilosis;a disorder of the lips marked by scaling and fissures at the corners of the mouth. caused by a deficiency of riboflavin
antecedent;the referent of an anaphor. a phrase or clause that is referred to by an anaphoric pronoun
wiggle;the act of wiggling
posttraumatic epilepsy;a convulsive epileptic state caused by a head injury
monilia disease;an infection caused by fungi of the genus monilia or candida (especially candida albicans)
osteoporosis;abnormal loss of bony tissue resulting in fragile porous bones. common in postmenopausal women
hastening;changing location rapidly
mastitis;inflammation of a breast (or udder)
envy;spite and resentment at seeing the success of another (personified as one of the deadly sins)
thrush;candidiasis of the oral cavity. seen mostly in infants or debilitated adults
first appearance;the act of beginning something new. 'they looked forward to the debut of their new product line'
piffle;trivial nonsense
annihilation;destruction by annihilating something
otitis externa;inflammation of the external ear (including auricle and ear canal)
beautification;the act of making something more beautiful
theorem;a proposition deducible from basic postulates
sleeplessness;a temporary state in which you are unable (or unwilling) to sleep
welcome;the state of being welcome. 'don't outstay your welcome'
gumming;ineffectual chewing (as if without teeth)
pes cavus;a deformity of the foot characterized by an abnormally high arch and hyperextension of the toes which gives the foot the appearance of a claw
issue;"a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon. 'the magnetic effect was greater when the rod was lengthwise'. 'his decision had depressing consequences for business'"
top billing;the advertisement of a star's name at the top of a theatrical poster
circumstance;"a condition that accompanies or influences some event or activity"
shenanigan;the use of tricks to deceive someone (usually to extract money from them)
disease;an impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning
estimate;a statement indicating the likely cost of some job. 'he got an estimate from the car repair shop'
malignancy;(medical) a malignant state. progressive and resistant to treatment and tending to cause death
simmering;cooking in a boiling liquid
au revoir;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
androphobia;a morbid fear of men
promenade;a leisurely walk (usually in some public place)
modernization;making modern in appearance of behavior. 'the modernizing of nigeria will be a long process'
banality;a trite or obvious remark
granulocytopenia;an acute blood disorder (often caused by radiation or drug therapy) characterized by severe reduction in granulocytes
meningitis;inflammation of the meninges (the tissues that surround the brain or spinal cord) caused by a bacterial infection. symptoms include headache and stiff neck and fever and nausea
smarting;a stinging pain
genetic disease;a disease or disorder that is inherited genetically
systemic lupus erythematosus;a chronic inflammatory collagen disease affecting connective tissue (skin or joints)
primary syphilis;the first stage. characterized by a chancre at the site of infection
dismount;the act of dismounting (a horse or bike etc.)
endurance;a state of surviving. remaining alive
flash;a short news announcement concerning some on-going news story
cut;a stroke (in tennis or badminton or squash) that puts reverse spin on the ball. 'cuts do not bother a good tennis player'
fusarium wilt;caused by fungi of the genus fusarium
re introduction;a proposal of something previously rejected. 'they avoided a re-introduction of the old terminology'
epidemic cholera;an acute intestinal infection caused by ingestion of contaminated water or food
health problem;a state in which you are unable to function normally and without pain
acromicria;abnormally small extremities (underdeveloped fingers and toes)
accession;the act of attaining a new office or right
maximisation;the act of maximizing something
reform;self-improvement in behavior or morals by abandoning some vice. 'the family rejoiced in the drunkard's reform'
ascending;the act of changing location in an upward direction
septicaemia;invasion of the bloodstream by virulent microorganisms from a focus of infection
closure;termination of operations
activity;"the state of being active. 'his sphere of activity'. 'he is out of action'"
degree program;a course of study leading to an academic degree
cramp;a painful and involuntary muscular contraction
development;act of improving by expanding or enlarging or refining. 'he congratulated them on their development of a plan to meet the emergency'. 'they funded research and development'
newsletter;report or open letter giving informal or confidential news
normalcy;"conformity with the norm"
circulatory failure;failure of the cardiovascular system to supply adequate amounts of blood to body tissues
reprimand;an expression of criticism and censure. 'he had to take the rebuke with a smile on his face'
impossibility;incapability of existing or occurring
holdout;the act of hiding playing cards in a gambling game so they are available for personal use later
wish;(usually plural) a polite expression of desire for someone's welfare. 'give him my kind regards'. 'my best wishes'
policy change;a reversal in attitude or principle or point of view: 'an about-face on foreign policy'
exophthalmos;protrusion of the eyeball from the socket
reproach;a mild rebuke or criticism. 'words of reproach'
leaf blight;any blight causing a browning and falling of the leaves of a plant
nicotine addiction;an addiction to nicotine
dispersal;the act of dispersing something
reductio ad absurdum;(reduction to the absurd) a disproof by showing that the consequences of the proposition are absurd
demineralization;abnormal loss of mineral salts (especially from bone)
budget cut;the act of reducing the budget
trail;evidence pointing to a possible solution. 'the police are following a promising lead'. 'the trail led straight to the perpetrator'
enveloping;the act of enclosing something inside something else
mosaic;viral disease in solanaceous plants (tomatoes. potatoes. tobacco) resulting in mottling and often shriveling of the leaves
portrayal;a word picture of a person's appearance and character
rigor mortis;temporary stiffness of joints and muscular rigidity occurring after death
embellishment;the act of adding extraneous decorations to something
brachiation;swinging by the arms from branch to branch
endometriosis;the presence of endometrium elsewhere than in the lining of the uterus. causes premenstrual pain and dysmenorrhea
trim;a state of arrangement or appearance: 'in good trim'
environmental condition;"the state of the environment"
icing;(ice hockey) the act of shooting the puck from within your own defensive area the length of the rink beyond the opponent's goal
arabic alphabet;the alphabet of 28 characters derived from aramaic and used for writing arabic languages
caffein addiction;an addiction to caffein
shipping fever;a deadly form of septicemia in cattle and sheep. involves high fever and pneumonia. contracted under conditions of exposure or exhaustion (as often happens when the animals are shipped to market)
speedup;the act of accelerating. increasing the speed
seed catalogue;a list advertising seeds and their prices
inauguration;the act of starting a new operation or practice. 'he opposed the inauguration of fluoridation'. 'the startup of the new factory was delayed by strikes'
vulnerability;the state of being vulnerable or exposed. 'exposure to ridicule' or 'vulnerability to litigation'
malta fever;contracted from meat or milk products from infected domestic animals
kenya fever;a disease (common in india and around the mediterranean area) caused by a rickettsia that is transmitted to humans by a reddish brown tick (ixodid) that lives on dogs and other mammals
thump;a heavy blow with the hand
cant;stock phrases that have become nonsense through endless repetition
charade;a composition that imitates somebody's style in a humorous way
twilight;a condition of decline following successes. 'in the twilight of the empire'
thorn;something that causes irritation and annoyance. 'he's a thorn in my flesh'
speed;changing location rapidly
anergy;reduction or lack of an immune response to a specific antigen
card catalogue;an enumeration of all the resources of a library
core;the central meaning or theme of a speech or literary work
bargain;an agreement between parties (usually arrived at after discussion) fixing obligations of each. 'he made a bargain with the devil'. 'he rose to prominence through a series of shady deals'
exophthalmic goiter;hyperthyroidism with protrusion of the eyeballs
ring disease;disease of tomatoes and potatoes and tobacco etc caused by the bacterium pseudomonas solanacearum
illusion;deception by creating illusory ideas
scoffing;showing your contempt by derision
twitching;a sudden spasm especially one caused by a nervous condition
low level formatting;(computer science) the format of sectors on the surface of a hard disk drive so that the operating system can access them
anhidrosis;failure of the sweat glands
wreck;something or someone that has suffered ruin or dilapidation. 'the house was a wreck when they bought it'. 'thanks to that quack i am a human wreck'
default;act of failing to meet a financial obligation
kala azar;leishmaniasis of the viscera
depreciation;a decrease in price or value over time. 'depreciation of the dollar against the yen'
pestilence;a serious (sometimes fatal) infection transmitted by the bite of an infected rat flea (especially bubonic plague)
insurance;protection against future loss
populating;the act of populating (causing to live in a place). 'he deplored the population of colonies with convicted criminals'
replacement;the act of furnishing an equivalent person or thing in the place of another
imbroglio;an intricate and confusing interpersonal or political situation
calling card;a written greeting that is left to indicate that you have visited
low down;slang terms for inside information. 'is that the straight dope?'
fell;the act of felling something (as a tree)
bachelor of literature;a bachelor's degree in literature
madness;an acute viral disease of the nervous system of warm-blooded animals (usually transmitted by the bite of a rabid animal)
creep;a slow creeping mode of locomotion (on hands and knees or dragging the body). 'a crawl was all that the injured man could manage'. 'the traffic moved at a creep'
good word;something that recommends (or expresses commendation)
saddle sore;sore on a horseback rider chafed by a saddle
day blindness;inability to see clearly in bright light
hi;an expression of greeting. 'every morning they exchanged polite hellos'
deviation;a turning aside (of your course or attention or concern): 'a diversion from the main highway'. 'a digression into irrelevant details'. 'a deflection from his goal'
transference;the act of transfering something from one form to another. 'the transfer of the music from record to tape suppressed much of the background noise'
depreciation;a communication that belittles somebody or something
heat;applies to nonhuman mammals: a state or period of heightened sexual arousal and activity
rhinitis;an inflammation of the mucous membrane lining the nose (usually associated with nasal discharge)
akinesis;motionlessness attributable to a temporary paralysis
wittiness;a message whose ingenuity or verbal skill or incongruity has the power to evoke laughter
putridness;in a state of progressive putrefaction
mess up;(british) something badly botched or muddled
pyorrhoea;discharge of pus
barracking;shouting to interrupt a speech with which you disagree
procrastination;the act of procrastinating
buildup;the act of building up an accumulation
sexually transmitted disease;a communicable disease transmitted by sexual intercourse or genital contact
job;a crime (especially a robbery). 'the gang pulled off a bank job in st. louis'
insult;a rude expression intended to offend or hurt. 'when a student made a stupid mistake he spared them no abuse'. 'they yelled insults at the visiting team'
retribution;the act of correcting for your wrongdoing
respiratory disease;a disease affecting the respiratory system
picture;a graphic or vivid verbal description. 'too often the narrative was interrupted by long word pictures'. 'the author gives a depressing picture of life in poland'
spastic abasia;abasia due to spastic contractions of the leg muscles
inebriation;a temporary state resulting from excessive consumption of alcohol
pacing;walking with slow regular strides
event;a special set of circumstances. 'in that event, the first possibility is excluded'. 'it may rain in which case the picnic will be canceled'
cowpox;a viral disease of cattle causing a mild skin disease affecting the udder. used to innoculate humans against smallpox
war crime;a crime committed in wartime. violation of rules of war
file transfer protocol;(computer science) protocol that allows users to copy files between their local system and any system they can reach on the network
inflammation;arousal to violent emotion
surprising;the act of surprising someone
ban;a bachelor's degree in nursing
acne vulgaris;the most common form of acne. usually affects people from puberty to young adulthood
outreach;the act of reaching out. 'the outreach toward truth of the human spirit'
stub;a torn part of a ticket returned to the holder as a receipt
award;a tangible symbol signifying approval or distinction. 'an award for bravery'
inclosure;the act of enclosing something inside something else
earthing;fastening electrical equipment to earth
pull;a sharp strain on muscles or ligaments. 'the wrench to his knee occurred as he fell'. 'he was sidelined with a hamstring pull'
roulette;a gambling game in which players bet on which compartment of a revolving wheel a small ball will come to rest in
arteriosclerosis obliterans;a stage of arteriosclerosis involving closure of blood vessels
sclerosis;any pathological hardening or thickening of tissue
fireman s carry;the act of carrying a person over your shoulder
dismissal;the act of terminating someone's employment
stricture;severe criticism
nick;a small cut
attainability;the state of being achievable
truth;a fact that has been verified. 'at last he knew the truth'. 'the truth is the he didn't want to do it'
cruise;an ocean trip taken for pleasure
haemorrhage;flow of blood from ruptured blood vessels
neutropenia;leukopenia in which the decrease is primarily in number of neutrophils (the chief phagocytic leukocyte)
general anaesthesia;a state of total unconsciousness resulting from anesthetic drugs (as for a major surgical operation)
chancroid;infectious venereal ulcer
bleeding;flow of blood from ruptured blood vessels
saturnism;toxic condition produced by the absorption of excessive lead into the system
sensory aphasia;aphasia characterized by fluent but meaningless speech and severe impairment of the ability understand spoken or written words
nerve block anesthesia;anesthesia of an area supplied by a nerve. produced by an anesthetic agent applied to the nerve
caudal anesthesia;regional anesthesia resulting from injection of an anesthetic into the caudal end of the spinal canal. now largely replaced by epidural anesthesia
providence;a manifestation of god's foresightful care for his creatures
injury;any physical damage to the body
glad hand;a warm welcome. may be insincere
dust cover;a paper jacket for a book. a jacket on which promotional information is printed
traveling;the act of going from one place to another. 'he enjoyed selling but he hated the travel'
thalassemia major;a fatal form of thalassemia in which there is no hemoglobin. skeletal deformations. heart and spleen and liver enlarged
failure;an unexpected omission. 'he resented my failure to return his call'
fraud;deliberate trickery intended to gain an advantage
twist;an interpretation of a text or action. 'they put an unsympathetic construction on his conduct'
sacrifice;the act of killing (an animal or person) in order to propitiate a deity
eye disease;a disease of the eye
expressive aphasia;aphasia in which expression by speech or writing is severely impaired
negative reinforcer;a reinforcing stimulus whose removal serves to decrease the likelihood of the response that produced it
metamorphopsia;a defect of vision in which objects appear to be distorted. usually due to a defect in the retina
accolade;a tangible symbol signifying approval or distinction. 'an award for bravery'
driving;the act of controlling and steering the movement of a vehicle or animal
tangency;contact at a single point or along a line
deadlock;a situation in which no progress can be made: 'reached an impasse on the negotiations'
expunging;deletion by an act of expunging or erasing
effect;"a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon. 'the magnetic effect was greater when the rod was lengthwise'. 'his decision had depressing consequences for business'"
leg;a section or portion of a journey or course. 'then we embarked on the second stage of our carribean cruise'
peccadillo;a petty misdeed
dle;a chronic skin disease occurring primarily in women between the ages of 20 and 40. characterized by an eruption of red lesions over the cheeks and bridge of the nose
reaction;doing something in opposition to another way of doing it that you don't like. 'his style of painting was a reaction against cubism'
factoid;something resembling a fact. unverified (often invented) information that is given credibility because it appeared in print
stalk;the act of following prey stealthily
anemic anoxia;anoxia resulting from a decreased concentration of hemoglobin
gastroesophageal reflux;reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus
blowing up;a severe rebuke. 'he deserved the berating that the coach gave him'
leukopenia;an abnormal lowering of the white blood cell count
poise;a state of being balanced in a stable equilibrium
atherogenesis;the formation of atheromas on the walls of the arteries as in atherosclerosis
link;the state of being connected. 'the connection between church and state is inescapable'
short list;(british) a list of applicants who have been deemed suitable and from which the successful person will be chosen
herniated disc;a painful rupture of the fibrocartilage of the disc between spinal vertebrae. occurs most often in the lumbar region
vacationing;the act of taking a vacation
derivation;drawing off water from its main channel as for irrigation
acedia;apathy and inactivity in the practice of virtue (personified as one of the deadly sins)
salute;an act of greeting with friendly words and gestures like bowing or lifting the hat
braising;cooking slowly in fat in a closed pot with little moisture
incrimination;an accusation that you are responsible for some lapse or misdeed. 'his incrimination was based on my testimony'. 'the police laid the blame on on the driver'
overeating;eating to excess (personified as one of the deadly sins)
spoof;a composition that imitates somebody's style in a humorous way
confession;an admission of misdeeds or faults
staking;the act of gambling. 'he did it on a bet'
devilry;reckless or malicious behavior that causes discomfort or annoyance in others
pure absence;petit mal seizure without other complications. followed by 3-per-sec brain-wave spikes
reaching;the act of physically reaching or thrusting out
bibliography;a list of writings with time and place of publication (such as the writings of a single author or the works referred to in preparing a document etc.)
ride;a journey in a vehicle driven by someone else. 'he took the family for a drive in his new car'
lie;a statement that deviates from or perverts the truth
canulization;the insertion of a cannula into a body cavity
ghost;a suggestion of some quality. 'there was a touch of sarcasm in his tone'. 'he detected a ghost of a smile on her face'
account;a short account of the news. 'the report of his speech'. 'the story was on the 11 o'clock news'. 'the account of his speech that was given on the evening news made the governor furious'
abcs;a statement of fundamental facts or principles
ovarian cyst;a cystic tumor (usually benign) of the ovary
closure;the act of blocking
habitual abortion;repeated spontaneous abortion (often for no known reason)
civil death;cancellation of civil rights
jaundice;yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes caused by an accumulation of bile pigment (bilirubin) in the blood. can be a symptom of gallstones or liver infection or anemia
chills and fever;successive stages of chills and fever that is a symptom of malaria
vulvitis;inflammation of the vulva
chickenpox;an acute contagious disease caused by herpes varicella zoster virus. causes a rash of vesicles on the face and body
cyclic disorder;a mild bipolar disorder that persists over a long time
adenomegaly;gland enlargement
myeloma;a tumor of the bone marrow (usually malignant) composed of cells normally found in bone marrow
delivery;the act of delivering or distributing something (as goods or mail). 'his reluctant delivery of bad news'
commiseration;an expression of sympathy with another's grief. 'they sent their condolences'
homogenization;the act of homogenizing
rudeness;a natural or unrefined state
lurch;the act of moving forward suddenly
inversion;turning upside down
effect;the central meaning or theme of a speech or literary work
address;written directions for finding some location. written on letters or packages that are to be delivered to that location
shillyshally;the act of procrastinating
direction;a message describing how something is to be done. 'he gave directions faster than she could follow them'
area;a particular environment or walk of life. 'his social sphere is limited'. 'it was a closed area of employment'. 'he's out of my orbit'
wing shooting;shooting game birds that are flying (on the wing)
rim blight;a disease of tea plants
blaze;noisy and unrestrained mischief. 'raising blazes'
coffee blight;a blight affecting the coffee plant
autarchy;economic independence as a national policy
major depressive episode;(psychiatry) a state of depression with all the classic symptoms (anhedonia and lethargy and sleep disturbance and despondency and morbid thoughts and feelings of worthlessness and sometimes attempted suicide) but with no known organic dysfunction
cartilaginification;abnormal formation of cartilage from other tissues. observed in some orientals
lymphoma;a neoplasm of lymph tissue that is usually malignant. one of the four major types of cancer
scepter;the imperial authority symbolized by a scepter
breaking and entering;trespassing for an unlawful purpose
diversification;the act of diversifying (introducing variety). 'my broker recommended a greater diversification of my investments'
swing;changing location by moving back and forth
derogation;a communication that belittles somebody or something
sterilization;the act of making an organism barren or infertile (unable to reproduce)
spiral;flying downward in a helical path with a large radius
spraying;the dispersion of fungicides or insecticides or fertilizer on growing crops (often from a low-flying aircraft)
conclusion;the proposition that must follow from the major and minor premises of a syllogism
moral principle;the principle that conduct should be moral
barb;an aggressive remark directed at a person like a missile and intended to have a telling effect. 'his parting shot was 'drop dead''. 'she threw shafts of sarcasm'. 'she takes a dig at me every chance she gets'
misdirection;incorrect directions or instructions
incitement;needed encouragement. 'the result was a provocation of vigorous investigation'
chew;biting and grinding food in your mouth so it becomes soft enough to swallow
tumult;a state of commotion and loud confused noise
peace offering;something offered to an adversary in the hope of obtaining peace
newscast;a broadcast of news
confluence;a coming together of people
figural blindness;inability to see shapes and contours
rule of evidence;a rule of law whereby any alleged matter of fact that is submitted for investigation at a judicial trial is established or disproved
cockup;(british) something badly botched or muddled
walk;the act of traveling by foot. 'walking is a healthy form of exercise'
slip;an unexpected slide
kibe;ulcerated chilblain on the heel
wage setter;any financial condition or variable that serves to set wage rates
oriental sore;leishmaniasis of the skin. characterized by ulcerative skin lesions
quivering;the act of vibrating
return address;the address of the sender of a letter or parcel indicating where it should be returned if it cannot be delivered
wave;a movement like that of an ocean wave. 'a wave of settlers'. 'troops advancing in waves'
manic depressive psychosis;a mental disorder characterized by episodes of mania and depression
eternal life;life without beginning or end
pact;a written agreement between two states or sovereigns
recrimination;mutual accusations
cutting off;the act of cutting something off
corner;a temporary monopoly on a kind of commercial trade: 'a corner on the silver market'
literal error;a mistake in printed matter resulting from mechanical failures of some kind
perambulation;a leisurely walk (usually in some public place)
quiescence;a state of quiet (but possibly temporary) inaction
overrefinement;the act of distorting something so it seems to mean something it was not intended to mean
keynote;the principal theme in a speech or literary work
wrecking;destruction achieved by wrecking something
autotomy;spontaneous removal or casting off of a body part (as the tail of a lizard or claw or a lobster) especially when the organism is injured or under attack
dispatch;an official report (usually sent in haste)
oral herpes;caused by herpes simplex virus type 1 (hvs-1)
amenorrhoea;absence or suppression of normal menstrual flow
spots before the eyes;caused by opaque cell fragments in the vitreous humor and lens
congratulations;an expression of approval and commendation. 'he always appreciated praise for his work'
criminalness;the state of being a criminal
land;a domain in which something is dominant. 'the untroubled kingdom of reason'. 'a land of make-believe'. 'the rise of the realm of cotton in the south'
buzzword;stock phrases that have become nonsense through endless repetition
enterotoxemia;a disease of cattle and sheep that is attributed to toxins absorbed from the intestines
guarantee;a pledge that something will happen or that something is true. 'there is no guarantee that they are not lying'
toughie;a particularly difficult or baffling question or problem
parkinson s syndrome;a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterized by tremor and impaired muscular coordination
draw;a golf shot that curves to the left for a right-handed golfer
paradox;(in logic) a self-contradiction. 'i always lie'
word division;division of a word especially at the end of a line on a page
windup;a concluding action
the shits;obscene term for diarrhea
circumstances;"your overall circumstances or condition in life (including everything that happens to you): 'whatever my fortune may be'. 'deserved a better fate'. 'has a happy lot'. 'the luck of the irish'. 'a victim of circumstances'. 'success that was her portion'"
cardiomegaly;an abnormal enlargement of the heart. mild cardiomegaly is common in athletes
stinger;a sharp stinging blow
password;a secret word or phrase known only to a restricted group. 'he forgot the password'
scrum;(rugby) the method of beginning play in which the forwards of each team crouch side by side with locked arms. play starts when the ball is put between them and the two sides compete for possession
shaving;the act of removing hair with a razor
outgrowth;a natural consequence of development
sales pitch;promotion by means of an argument and demonstration
stuff and nonsense;senseless talk. 'don't give me that stuff'
malignance;(medical) a malignant state. progressive and resistant to treatment and tending to cause death
clime;the weather in some location averaged over some long period of time
metrorrhagia;bleeding from the uterus that is not due to menstruation. usually indicative of disease (as cervical cancer)
spin;rapid descent of an aircraft in a steep spiral spin
undulant fever;contracted from meat or milk products from infected domestic animals
blandishment;flattery intended to persuade
fare stage;(british) a section along the route of a bus for which the fare is the same
valley fever;an infection of the lungs and skin characterized by excessive sputum and nodules
wild;"a wild primitive state untouched by civilization. 'he lived in the wild'. 'they tried to preserve nature as they found it'"
prostatitis;inflammation of the prostate gland characterized by perineal pain and irregular urination and (if severe) chills and fever
marriage settlement;a prenuptial agreement or contract
carelessness;failure to act
salve;anything that remedies or heals or soothes. 'he needed a salve for his conscience'
condescension;a communication that indicates lack of respect by patronizing the recipient
ptosis;drooping of the upper eyelid caused by muscle paralysis and weakness
sheepshearing;act of shearing sheep
hair coloring;the act of dyeing or tinting one's hair
decoction;(pharmacology) the extraction by boiling of water-soluble drug substances
mal de mer;motion sickness experienced while traveling on water
crux;the most important point
bornholm disease;an acute infectious disease occurring in epidemic form and featuring paroxysms of pain (usually in the chest)
suspension;a temporary debarment (from a privilege or position etc)
liberty;freedom of choice: 'liberty of opinion'. 'liberty of worship'. 'liberty--perfect liberty--to think or feel or do just as one pleases'. 'at liberty to choose whatever occupation one wishes'
involution;the act of enfolding something
reason;an explanation of the cause of some phenomenon. 'the reason a steady state was never reached was that the back pressure built up too slowly'
conduction aphasia;aphasia in which the lesion is assumed to be in the association tracts connecting the various language centers in the brain. patient's have difficulty repeating a sentence just heard
good morning;a conventional expression of greeting or farewell
glow;an alert and refreshed state
backstroke;a swimming stroke that resembles the crawl except the swimmer lies on his or her back
acquired immune deficiency syndrome;a serious (often fatal) disease of the immune system transmitted through blood products especially by sexual contact or contaminated needles
asiatic flu;influenza caused by the asian virus that was first isolated in 1957
cutting off;the act of shortening something by cutting off the ends. 'the barber gave him a good cut'
bye;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
showcase;a setting in which something can be displayed to best effect. 'it was a showcase for democracy in africa'
exaggeration;the act of making something more noticeable than usual. 'the dance involved a deliberate exaggeration of his awkwardness'
twist;the act of rotating rapidly. 'he gave the crank a spin'. 'it broke off after much twisting'
reference;a formal recommendation by a former employer to a potential future employer describing the person's qualifications and dependability. 'requests for character references are all to often answered evasively'
disorder;"a disturbance of the peace or of public order"
sword cut;a scar from a cut made by a sword
scar;a mark left by the healing of injured tissue
tay sachs;a hereditary disorder of lipid metabolism occuring most frequently in individuals of e european jewish descent. accumulation of lipids in nervous tissue results in death in early childhood
solution;a statement that solves a problem or explains how to solve the problem. 'they were trying to find a peaceful solution'. 'the answers were in the back of the book'. 'he computed the result to four decimal places'
culpability;a state of guilt
aversive stimulus;any negative stimulus to which an organism will learn to make a response that avoids it
badinage;frivolous banter
soup;(informal) an unfortunate situation. 'we're in the soup now'
diaper rash;dermatitis of the thighs and buttocks of infants. supposedly caused by ammonia in the urine in the child's diapers
hint;an indication of potential opportunity. 'he got a tip on the stock market'. 'a good lead for a job'
bungle;an embarrassing mistake
jaunt;a journey taken for pleasure. 'many summer excursions to the shore'. 'it was merely a pleasure trip'. 'after cautious sashays into the field'
hereness;the state of being here in this place
abruptio placentae;a disorder of pregnancy in which the placenta prematurely separates from the wall of the uterus
citation;a short note acknowledging a source of information or quoting a passage. 'the student's essay failed to list several important citations'. 'the article includes mention of similar clinical cases'
falsehood;a false statement
banzai;a japanese cheer of enthusiasm or triumph
plug;blatant or sensational promotion
living;the condition of living or the state of being alive. 'while there's life there's hope'. 'life depends on many chemical and physical processes'
taradiddle;pretentious or silly talk or writing
cancer of the blood;malignant neoplasm of blood-forming tissues. characterized by abnormal proliferation of leukocytes. one of the four major types of cancer
spurring;a verbalization that encourages you to attempt something
buff;informal. 'in the raw' or 'in his birthday suit'
backwash;the consequences of an event (especially a catastrophic event). 'the aftermath of war'. 'in the wake of the accident no one knew how many had been injured'
uniting;the combination of two or more commercial companies
mercy;something for which to be thankful. 'it was a mercy we got out alive'
car care;keeping a car in good working order
parts catalog;a list advertising parts for machinery along with prices
maneuver;a deliberate coordinated movement requiring dexterity and skill. 'he made a great play'
nettle rash;an itchy skin eruption characterized by weals with pale interiors and well-defined red margins. usually the result of an allergic response to insect bites or food or drugs
talking to;a lengthy rebuke. 'a good lecture was my father's idea of discipline'. 'the teacher gave him a talking to'
wale;a raised mark on the skin (as produced by a blow)
dengue;an infectious disease of the tropics transmitted by mosquitoes and characterized by rash and aching head and joints
indictability;the state of being liable to impeachment
dispatch;the murder or execution of someone
schedule;an ordered list of times at which things are planned to occur
irreality;the state of being insubstantial or imaginary. not existing objectively or in fact
fall;the act of surrendering (under agreed conditions). 'they were protected until the capitulation of the fort'
box;a blow with the hand (usually on the ear). 'i gave him a good box on the ear'
nonachievement;"an act that does not achieve its intended goal"
squelch;(informal) a crushing remark
affidavit;written declaration made under oath
switcheroo;a sudden unexpected switch
nominal aphasia;inability to name objects or to recognize written or spoken names of objects
sideroblastic anemia;refractory anemia characterized by sideroblasts in the bone marrow
glissade;a gliding or sliding step in ballet
squat;the act of assuming or maintaining a squatting position
loan application;an application to borrow money
spirit;the general atmosphere of a place or situation. 'the feel of the city excited him'. 'a clergyman improved the tone of the meeting'. 'it had the smell of treason'
chip shot;a low running approach shot
conjunction;the state of being joined
abocclusion;the condition in which the upper teeth do not touch the lower teeth when biting
nothingness;the state of nonexistence
decomposition;in a decomposed state
void;the state of nonexistence
moral;the significance of a story or event. 'the moral of the story is to love thy neighbor'
butt welding;creating a butt joint by welding
bill;a list of particulars (as a playbill or bill of fare)
stalk;a stiff or threatening gait
first class honours degree;(great britain) an honours degree of the highest class
hooliganism;willful wanton and malicious destruction of the property of others
akinesia;motionlessness attributable to a temporary paralysis
schrodinger equation;the fundamental equation of wave mechanics
medal;an award for winning a championship
indian cholera;an acute intestinal infection caused by ingestion of contaminated water or food
blocking;the act of blocking someone's path with your body (as in football). 'he threw a rolling block into the line backer'
brutalization;an act that makes people cruel or lacking normal human qualities
messiness;a state of confusion and disorderliness. 'the house was a mess'. 'she smoothed the mussiness of the bed'
fording;the act of crossing a stream or river by wading or in a car or on a horse
tumidity;slight swelling
microcytosis;a blood disorder characterized by the presence of microcytes (abnormally small red blood cells) in the blood. often associated with anemia
tax break;a tax deduction that is granted in order to encourage a particular type of commercial activity
rigmarole;a set of confused and meaningless statements
nervous disorder;a disorder of the nervous system
protanopia;inability to distinguish red and purplish blue
thrusting;a sharp hand gesture (resembling a blow). 'he warned me with a jab with his finger'. 'he made a thrusting motion with his fist'
stringency;a state occasioned by scarcity of money and a shortage of credit
chronic glossitis;glossitis with atrophy of tongue tissue. sometimes accompanies pernicious anemia
initiation;starting something for the first time
deposition;written declaration made under oath
trespass de bonis asportatis;an action brought to recover damages from a person who has taken goods or property from its rightful owner
alkalosis;abnormally high alkalinity of the blood and other body tissues
reconstruction;an interpretation formed by piecing together bits of evidence
imbroglio;a very embarrassing misunderstanding
sporotrichosis;a chronic fungal infection of the skin and lymph nodes
redundant check;a system of checking for errors in computer functioning
stalling;a tactic used to mislead or delay
guilt by association;the attribution of guilt (without proof) to individuals because the people they associate with are guilty
upset;the act of disturbing the mind or body. 'his carelessness could have caused an ecological upset'. 'she was unprepared for this sudden overthrow of their normal way of living'
consumer price index;an index of the cost of all goods and services to a typical consumer
bow leg;outward curvature of the legs
confusion;a mistake that results from taking one thing to be another. 'he changed his name in order to avoid confusion with the notorious outlaw'
spillage;the act of allowing a fluid to escape
word;new information about specific and timely events. 'they awaited news of the outcome'
retroflection;the act of bending backward
cor pulmonale;enlargement of the right ventricle of the heart due to disease of the lungs or of the pulmonary blood vessels
sting;a mental pain or distress. 'a pang of conscience'
splashing;the act of scattering water about haphazardly
sleeping;the state of being asleep
associate degree;a degree granted by a two-year college on successful completion of the undergraduates course of studies
accounting;a convincing explanation that reveals basic causes. 'he was unable to give a clear accounting for his actions'
basting;moistening a roast as it is cooking
heat prostration;a condition marked by dizziness and nausea and weakness caused by depletion of body fluids and electrolytes
dislocation;the act of disrupting an established order
attack;a decisive manner of beginning a musical tone or phrase
basics;a statement of fundamental facts or principles
reading program;a program designed to teach literacy skills
gangrene;death and decay of tissue caused by loss of blood supply or infection
pasteurellosis;an acute infectious disease characterized by pneumonia and blood infection
gestation;the state of being pregnant
errand;a short trip that is taken in the performance of a necessary task or mission
racketeering;engaging in a racket
tetanus;an acute and serious infection of the central nervous system caused by bacterial infection of open wounds. spasms of the jaw and laryngeal muscles are a symptom
vitality;a healthy capacity for vigorous activity. 'jogging works off my excess energy'. 'he seemed full of vim and vigor'
easing;the act of reducing something unpleasant as pain. 'he asked the nurse for relief from the constant pain'
tramp;a long walk usually for exercise or pleasure
robbery;larceny by threat of violence
great depression;the economic crisis beginning with the stock market crash in 1929 and continuing through the 1930s
skulduggery;verbal misrepresentation intended to take advantage of you in some way
abolition;the act of abolishing
steatorrhea;the presence of greater than normal amounts of fat in the feces which are frothy and foul smelling and floating. a symptom of disorders of fat metabolism and malabsorption syndrome
abnormality;behavior that breaches the rule or etiquette or custom or morality
turnaround;turning in the opposite direction
jerk;an abrupt spasmodic movement
musophobia;a morbid fear of mice
gyration;the act of rotating in a circle or spiral
replacing;the act of furnishing an equivalent person or thing in the place of another
caustic remark;witty language used to convey insults or scorn. 'he used sarcasm to upset his opponent'. 'irony is wasted on the stupid'
carte;a list of dishes available at a restaurant. 'the menu was in french'
sodoku;the form of ratbite fever occurring in the far east
naupathia;motion sickness experienced while traveling on water
goad;a verbalization that encourages you to attempt something
rubbish;nonsensical talk or writing
disarrangement;a condition in which an orderly system has been disrupted
battery;an intentional physical attack or beating that causes unlawful violence to another person
stress fracture;fracture resulting from excessive activity rather than a specific injury
ectopic gestation;pregnancy resulting from gestation elsewhere than in the uterus
sailplaning;the activity of flying a glider
evasive answer;(law) an answer by a defendant that fails to admit or deny the allegations set forth in the complaint
wealthiness;the state of being rich and affluent. having a plentiful supply of material goods and money: 'great wealth is not a sign of great intelligence'
tremor;a shaky motion. 'the shaking of his fingers as he lit his pipe'
capital offense;a crime so serious that capital punishment is considered appropriate
reforestation;the restoration (replanting) of a forest that had been reduced by fire or cutting
bind;something that hinders as if with bonds
acne rosacea;a skin disease of adults (more often women) in which blood vessels of the face enlarge resulting in a flushed appearance
trifurcation;splitting into three branches
prostitution;offering sexual intercourse for pay
broadsheet;an advertisement (usually printed on a page or in a leaflet) intended for wide distribution. 'he mailed the circular to all subscribers'
sick list;a list of those who are ill (e.g. on a warship or in a regiment etc)
chase;the act of pursuing
paralytic abasia;abasia related to paralysis of the leg muscles
information;a message received and understood that reduces the recipient's uncertainty
immersion;the act of submerging something
fault;a wrong action attributable to bad judgment or ignorance or inattention. 'the fault was all mine'
crap shooting;a gambling game using two dice
annunciation;(in christian religions) the announcement to the virgin mary by the angel gabriel of the incarnation of christ
topical anaesthesia;loss of sensation confined to the skin or mucous surfaces (as when benzocaine or lidocaine is applied to the surface)
actuality;the state of actually existing objectively: 'a hope that progressed from possibility to actuality'
sensationalism;subject matter that is calculated to excite and please vulgar tastes
corruption;in a state of progressive putrefaction
punting;kicking in which the football is dropped from the hands and kicked before it touches the ground
ailurophobia;a morbid fear of cats
imbecility;a stupid mistake
hypertension;a common disorder in which blood pressure remains abnormally high
bit;an instance of some kind. 'it was a nice piece of work'. 'he had a bit of good luck'
agitation;a state of agitation or turbulent change or development: 'the political ferment produced a new leadership'. 'social unrest'
mop up;a concluding action
shakiness;a shaky motion. 'the shaking of his fingers as he lit his pipe'
stomach flu;inflammation of the stomach and intestines. caused by salmonella enteritidis
orderliness;"a condition of regular or proper arrangement: 'he put his desk in order'. 'put the chessmen in order'"
stack;a list in which the next item to be removed is the item most recently stored (lifo)
palliation;easing the severity of a pain or a disease without removing the cause
condition;an assumption on which rests the validity or effect of something else
sitting trot;the rider sits still in the saddle
parole;a secret word or phrase known only to a restricted group. 'he forgot the password'
emptiness;having an empty stomach
holdup;the act of delaying
confederation;the state of being allied or confederated
state of grace;"a state of sanctification by god"
defoliation;causing the leaves of trees and other plants to fall off (as by the use of chemicals)
boot;the act of delivering a blow with the foot. 'he gave the ball a powerful kick'
lodgment;bringing a charge or accusation against someone
jiggle;a slight irregular shaking motion
self rule;government of a country by its own people
installation;the act of installing something (as equipment). 'the telephone installation took only a few minutes'
mba;a master's degree in business
esoterica;secrets known only to an initiated minority
ravishment;the crime of forcing a woman to submit to sexual intercourse against her will
unsoundness;"a condition of damage or decay"
body english;a motion of the body by a player as if to make an object already propelled go in the desired direction
reverse split;a decrease in the number of outstanding shares of a corporation without changing the shareholders' equity
clearing;the act of removing solid particles from a liquid
trot;a slow pace of running
cartoon strip;a sequence of drawings in a newspaper telling a story
recursive definition;(mathematics) a definition of a function from which values of the function can be calculated in a finite number of steps
particular;a fact about some part (as opposed to general). 'he always reasons from the particular to the general'
key word;a word that is used as a pattern to decode an encrypted message
spermatocele;a swelling on the epididymis or the testis. usually contains spermatozoa
platitude;a trite or obvious remark
bloodguilt;the state of being guilty of bloodshed and murder
devastation;the state of being decayed or destroyed
matter of fact;a matter that is an actual fact or is demonstrable as a fact
dyeing;the use of dye to change the color of something permanently
frostbite;destruction of tissue by freezing and characterized by tingling, blistering and possibly gangrene
origination;an event that is a beginning. a first part or stage of subsequent events
vice crime;a vice that is illegal
cession;the act of ceding
nervous exhaustion;an emotional disorder that leaves you exhausted and unable to work
nudeness;"the state of being without clothing or covering of any kind"
mulcting;an attempt by speculators to defraud investors
filariasis;a disease caused by nematodes in the blood or tissues of the body causing blockage of lymphatic vessels
backfire;a miscalculation that recoils on its maker
full employment;the economic condition when everyone who wishes to work at the going wage-rate for their type of labor is employed
interference;the act of blocking someone's path with your body (as in football). 'he threw a rolling block into the line backer'
oil change;replacing dirty oil with clean
interim overhaul;an overhaul between the regular times for overhauling
dictate;an authoritative rule
wilt disease;any plant disease characterized by drooping and shriveling. usually caused by parasites attacking the roots
anticipatory breach;a breach of contract committed prior to the time of required performance
nympholepsy;a frenzy of emotion. as for something unattainable
spring cleaning;the activity of cleaning a house thoroughly at the end of winter
want;a state of extreme poverty
alveolar resorption;wasting of the bony socket
track;evidence pointing to a possible solution. 'the police are following a promising lead'. 'the trail led straight to the perpetrator'
dengue fever;an infectious disease of the tropics transmitted by mosquitoes and characterized by rash and aching head and joints
mcardle s disease;an inherited disease in which abnormal amounts of glycogen accumulate in skeletal muscle. results in weakness and cramping
salpingitis;inflammation of a fallopian tube (usually the result of infection spreading from the vagina or uterus) or of a eustachian tube
checklist;a list of items (names or tasks etc.) to be checked or consulted
subcontract;a contract assigning to another party some obligations of a prior contract
affirmation;a statement asserting the existence or the truth of something
essential hypertension;persistent and pathological high blood pressure for which no specific cause can be found
malformation;an affliction in which some part of the body is misshapen or malformed
lapse;a mistake resulting from inattention
myxomatosis;a viral disease (usually fatal) of rabbits
putting;hitting a golf ball on the putting surface with a putter
tarradiddle;pretentious or silly talk or writing
drool;pretentious or silly talk or writing
ringing;the giving of a ring as a token of engagement
revival;the conversion of waste land into land suitable for use of habitation or cultivation
psychosomatic disorder;a mental disorder that causes somatic symptoms
jocosity;fun characterized by humor
gabble;rapid and indistinct speech
master of fine arts;a master's degree in fine arts
poorness;the state of having little or no money and few or no material possessions
palpitation;a shaky motion. 'the shaking of his fingers as he lit his pipe'
ketoacidosis prone diabetes;diabetes mellitus with an early onset
tyrannicide;killing a tyrant
redress;act of correcting an error or a fault or an evil
coverage;the news as presented by reporters for newspapers or radio of television. 'they accused the paper of biased coverage of race relations'
improvement;"a condition superior to an earlier condition: 'the new school represents a great improvement'"
doctor of humanities;an honorary degree in the humanities
program;an announcement of the events that will occur as part of a theatrical or sporting event. 'you can't tell the players without a program'
technical knockout;a knockout declared by the referee who judges one boxer unable to continue
miscarriage;a natural loss of the products of conception
felony;a serious crime
hammer;the act of pounding (delivering repeated heavy blows). 'the sudden hammer of fists caught him off guard'. 'the pounding of feet on the hallway'
saunter;a leisurely walk (usually in some public place)
expansion;an interpretation that provides additional information
index;an alphabetical listing of names and topics along with page numbers where they are discussed
ubiety;the state of existing and being localized in space
what for;a strong reprimand
subject matter;"what a communication that is about something is about"
alalia;paralysis of the vocal cords resulting in an inability to speak
push down queue;a last-in first-out kind of queue (lifo)
tattoo;the practice of making a design on the skin by pricking and staining
relinquishing;the act of relinquishing
press release;an announcement distributed to members of the press in order to supplement or replace an oral presentation
vibrations;a distinctive emotional atmosphere. sensed intuitively. 'the place gives me bad vibes'
swing;the act of swinging a golf club at a golf ball and (usually) hitting it
loafing;having no employment
interspersion;the act of combining one thing at intervals among other things. 'the interspersion of illustrations in the text'
written agreement;a legal document summarizing the agreement between parties
circumstance;the set of facts or circumstances that surround a situation or event. 'the historical context'
sclerotium disease;plant disease cause by fungi of the genus sclerotium. also one in which sclerotia are formed
accusation;a formal charge of wrongdoing brought against a person. an imputation of blame or guilt
monition;a firm rebuke
ethnic joke;a joke at the expense of some ethnic group
alcohol addiction;prolonged and excessive intake of alcoholic drinks leading to a breakdown in health and an addiction to alcohol such that abrupt deprivation leads to severe withdrawal symptoms
amoebiosis;infection by a disease-causing ameba
maintenance;the act of sustaining
suppurating sore;a sore that has become inflamed and formed pus
non a non b hepatitis;a viral hepatitis clinically indistinguishable from hepatitis b but caused by an rna virus
scrub typhus;transmitted by larval mites and widespread in asia
asthma;respiratory disorder characterized by wheezing. often of allergic origin
conversion;the act of changing from one use or function or purpose to another
disequilibrium;an unstable situation in which some forces outweigh others
puff;exaggerated praise (as for promotional purposes)
knockdown;a blow that knocks the opponent off his feet
tumor;an abnormal new mass of tissue that serves no purpose
closeout;a sale intended to dispose of all remaing stock
salutation;an act of honor or courteous recognition: 'a musical salute to the composer on his birthday'
unreality;the state of being insubstantial or imaginary. not existing objectively or in fact
corrosion;a state of deterioration in metals caused by oxidation or chemical action
movement;the act of changing your location from one place to another. 'police controlled the motion of the crowd'. 'the movement of people from the farms to the cities'. 'his move put him directly in my path'
censure;the state of being excommunicated
turnover;the act of upsetting something. 'he was badly bruised by the upset of his sled at a high speed'
conveyance;the act of transporting something from one location to another
historicalness;the state of having in fact existed in the past
ornamentation;the act of adding extraneous decorations to something
self government;government of a country by its own people
ordinary;"the expected or commonplace condition or situation: 'not out of the ordinary'"
fraudulence;deliberate trickery intended to gain an advantage
fluoridization;the addition of a fluoride to the water supply (to prevent dental decay)
population;the act of populating (causing to live in a place). 'he deplored the population of colonies with convicted criminals'
als;thickening of tissue in the motor tracts of the lateral columns and anterior horns of the spinal cord. results in progressive muscle atrophy that starts in the limbs
bank withdrawal;the withdrawal of money from your account at a bank
diaper dermatitis;dermatitis of the thighs and buttocks of infants. supposedly caused by ammonia in the urine in the child's diapers
palaver;loud and confused and empty talk. 'mere rhetoric'
autarky;economic independence as a national policy
overtone;(usually plural) an ulterior implicit meaning or quality. 'overtones of despair'
stretch;extension to or beyond the ordinary limit. 'running at full stretch'. 'by no stretch of the imagination'. 'beyond any stretch of his understanding'
tear;the act of tearing. 'he took the manuscript in both hands and gave it a mighty tear'
bloodletting;indiscriminate slaughter
anabiosis;suspended animation in organisms during periods of extreme drought from which they revive when moisture returns
mass murder;the wanton killing of many people
liquidation;terminating a business operation
fertility;the state of being fertile. capable of producing offspring
haemoglobinopathy;a blood disease characterized by the presence of abnormal hemoglobins in the blood
word square;a puzzle where you fill a square grid with words reading the same down as across
encouragement;the expression of approval and support
sick joke;a joke in bad taste
recital;a detailed statement giving facts and figures. 'his wife gave a recital of his infidelities'
scene;a situation treated as an observable object. 'the political picture is favorable' or 'the religious scene in england has changed in the last century'
tightening;the act of making something tighter. 'the tightening of economic controls'
entente cordiale;a friendly understanding between political powers
pass completion;a successful forward pass in football
deferral;act of putting off to a future time
gram s method;a staining technique used to classify bacteria. those that retain the gentian violet are gram-positive and those that do not retain it are gram-negative
abortion;termination of pregnancy
torticollis;an unnatural condition in which the head leans to one side because the neck muscles on that side are contracted
side effect;a secondary and usually adverse effect of a drug or therapy. 'severe headaches are one of the side effects of the drug'
deviation;deviate behavior
sensory epilepsy;focal epilepsy initiated by somatosensory phenomena
kneel;supporting yourself on your knees
backlash;an adverse reaction to some political or social occurrence. 'there was a backlash of intolerance'
ostracism;the state of being banished or ostracized (excluded from society by general consent)
famine;a severe shortage (especially a shortage of food)
downswing;a swing downward of a golf club
fairytale;an interesting but highly implausible story. often told as an excuse
gallop;a fast gait of a horse. a two-beat stride during which all four legs are off the ground simultaneously
condition;the state of (good) health--especially in the phrases 'in condition' or 'in shape' or 'out of condition' or 'out of shape'
beat;the act of beating to windward. sailing as close as possible to the direction from which the wind is blowing
glove anesthesia;a mental disorder involving loss of sensitivity in the hand and wrist. 'since no combination of nerves serve this area a glove anesthesia is clearly psychogenic in origin'
malignant neuroma;a malignant neoplasm of nerve tissue and fibrous tissue and connective tissue
interspersal;the act of combining one thing at intervals among other things. 'the interspersion of illustrations in the text'
pigeon breast;abnormal protrusion of the breastbone caused by rickets
penury;a state of extreme poverty or destitution. 'their indigence appalled him'. 'a general state of need exists among the homeless'
annotating;the act of adding notes
fracture;the act of cracking something
obstruction;the act of obstructing. 'obstruction of justice'
liquidation;the act of exterminating
pose;a deliberate pretense or exaggerated display
pilar cyst;a common cyst of the skin. filled with fatty matter (sebum) that is secreted by a sebaceous gland that has been blocked
expunction;deletion by an act of expunging or erasing
upbraiding;a severe scolding
compensation;the act of compensating for loss or injury
wag;causing to move repeatedly from side to side
induration;any pathological hardening or thickening of tissue
peregrination;travel (especially by foot)
break in;trespassing for an unlawful purpose
subversion;activity aimed at bringing about an overthrow of a legally constituted government
desperation;"a state in which everything seems wrong and will turn out badly. 'they were rescued from despair at the last minute'"
psittacosis;infectious disease of birds
addison s syndrome;a glandular disorder caused by failure of function of the cortex of the adrenal gland and marked by anemia and prostration with brownish skin
sway;pitching dangerously to one side
go around;an approach that fails and gives way to another attempt
erysipelas;an acute streptococcal infection characterized by deep-red inflammation of the skin and mucous membranes
tremolo;(music) a tremulous effect produced by rapid repetition of a single tone or rapid alternation of two tones
communications protocol;(computer science) rules determining the format and transmission of data
atopic dermatitis;dermatitis characterized by atopy
dishonesty;lack of honesty. acts of lying or cheating or stealing
battue;indiscriminate slaughter
adaptation;(physiology) the responsive adjustment of a sense organ (as the eye) to varying conditions (as of light)
dependence;"lack of independence or self-sufficiency"
scathe;the act of damaging something or someone
dmd;a doctor's degree in dental medicine
sebaceous cyst;a common cyst of the skin. filled with fatty matter (sebum) that is secreted by a sebaceous gland that has been blocked
ague;a fit of shivering
acid rain;rain containing acids that form in the atmosphere when industrial gas emissions combine with water
heart disease;a disease of the heart
quartering;dividing into four equal parts
complication;the act or process of complicating
commutation;the substitution of one method of payment for another
beriberi;caused by lack of thiamine (vitamin b1)
double dealing;acting in bad faith. deception by pretending to entertain one set of intentions while acting under the influence of another
balanitis;inflammation of the head of the penis
lease;a contract granting use or occupation of property during a specified time for a specified payment
latency;the state of being not yet evident or active
headache;something or someone that causes anxiety. a source of unhappiness. 'new york traffic is a constant concern'. 'it's a major worry'
content;"something (a person or object or scene) selected by an artist or photographer for graphic representation. 'a moving picture of a train is more dramatic than a still picture of the same subject'"
march;a degree granted for the successful completion of advanced study of architecture
okey;an endorsement. 'they gave us the ok to go ahead'
temporary removal;a temporary debarment (from a privilege or position etc)
running;the state of being in operation. 'the engine is running smoothly'
neoplasm;an abnormal new mass of tissue that serves no purpose
verticilliosis;caused by soil-borne fungi of the genus verticillium
oestrus;applies to nonhuman mammals: a state or period of heightened sexual arousal and activity
refabrication;assembling again
nonpayment;act of failing to meet a financial obligation
abbreviation;shortening something by omitting parts of it
word meaning;the meaning of a word
doctor of philosophy;a doctorate awarded for original contributions to knowledgea doctorate awarded for original contributions to knowledge
amebiosis;infection by a disease-causing ameba
advertising;a public promotion of some product or service
camera care;keeping a camera in good working order
navy cross;a us navy decoration for extraordinary heroism against an armed enemy
immanent abortion;the appearance of symptoms that signal the impending loss of the products of conception
shrinking;the act of becoming less
otitis interna;inflammation of the inner ear. can cause vertigo and vomiting
thimblerig;a swindling sleight-of-hand game. victim guesses which of three things a pellet is under
kick;the sudden stimulation provided by strong drink (or certain drugs). 'a sidecar is a smooth drink but it has a powerful kick'
barbecuing;roasting a large piece of meat on a revolving spit out of doors over an open fire
filling;a act of filling something
pappataci fever;a mild viral disease transmitted by the bite of the sand fly phlebotomus papatasii
doctor of medicine;a doctor's degree in medicine
cardiopulmonary arrest;absence of systole. failure of the ventricles of the heart to contract (usually caused by ventricular fibrillation) with consequent absence of the heart beat leading to oxygen lack and eventually to death
autoimmune disease;any of a large group of diseases characterized by abnormal functioning of the immune system that causes it to produce antibodies against your own tissues
nonobservance;a lack of conformity with law or custom or practice etc.
inclusion;the state of being included
coalition;the state of being combined into one body
promise;a verbal commitment by one person to another agreeing to do (or not to do) something in the future
tip off;the act of starting a basketball game with a jump ball
stickup;robbery at gunpoint
sassing;an impudent or insolent rejoinder. 'don't give me any of your sass'
pancreatic cancer;cancer of the pancreas
murder;unlawful premeditated killing of a human being
high blood pressure;a common disorder in which blood pressure remains abnormally high
jocularity;fun characterized by humor
quenching;the act of extinguishing. causing to stop burning. 'the extinction of the lights'
contempt;open disrespect for a person or thing
item;an isolated fact that is considered separately from the whole. 'several of the details are similar'. 'a point of information'
alexia;inability to perceive written words
coaxing;flattery designed to gain favor
adhesion;abnormal union of bodily tissues. most common in the abdomen
torment;unbearable physical pain
treason;a crime that undermines the offender's government
distortion;the mistake of misrepresenting the facts
nose dive;a steep nose-down descent by an aircraft
quivering;a shaky motion. 'the shaking of his fingers as he lit his pipe'
numbers;an illegal daily lottery
settlement;a conclusive resolution of a matter and disposition of it
falsity;the state of being false or untrue. 'argument could not determine its truth or falsity'
furtherance;the advancement of some enterprise. 'his experience in marketing resulted in the forwarding of his career'
valvulitis;inflammation of a cardiac valve
standstill;a situation in which no progress can be made: 'reached an impasse on the negotiations'
smart;a stinging pain
beet blight;a disease of beet plants
spoil;the act of spoiling
voraciousness;excessive desire to eat
half volley;a tennis return made by hitting the ball immediately after it bounces
kettle of fish;informal terms for a difficult situation. 'he got into a terrible fix'. 'he made a muddle of his marriage'
beginning;the act of starting something. 'he was responsible for the beginning of negotiations'
lineup;(baseball) a list of batters in the order in which they will bat. 'the managers presented their cards to the umpire at home plate'
misconduct;"activity that transgresses moral or civil law. 'he denied any wrongdoing'"
blessing;a short prayer of thanks before a meal
poisoning;the physiological state produced by a poison or a toxic substance
brain teaser;a difficult problem
epidemic pleurodynia;an acute infectious disease occurring in epidemic form and featuring paroxysms of pain (usually in the chest)
gloom;an atmosphere of depression and melancholy. 'gloom pervaded the office'
size of it;(informal) the actual state of affairs. 'that's the size of the situation'. 'she hates me, that's about the size of it'
grogginess;a groggy state resulting from weariness
aspiration penumonia;inflammation of the lungs caused by inhaling or choking on vomitus. may occur during unconsciousness (anesthesia or drunkenness or seizure or cardiac arrest)
ford;the act of crossing a stream or river by wading or in a car or on a horse
criticality;a critical state. especially the point at which a nuclear reaction is self-sustaining
finger alphabet;an alphabet used by the deaf. letters are represented by finger positions
birthday suit;informal. 'in the raw' or 'in his birthday suit'
tender offer;an offer to buy shares in a corporation (usually above the market price) for cash or securities or both
sale;an occasion (usually brief) for buying at specially reduced prices. 'they held a sale to reduce their inventory'. 'i got some great bargains at their annual sale'
mouth;an impudent or insolent rejoinder. 'don't give me any of your sass'
turpitude;a corrupt or depraved or degenerate act or practice: 'the various turpitudes of modern society'
unbalance;a state of disequilibrium
visual joke;a joke whose effect is achieved by visual means rather than by speech (as in a movie)
concordat;a signed written agreement between two or more parties (nations) to perform some action
apologia;a formal written defense of something you believe in strongly
stunting;the performance of stunts while in flight in an aircraft
breath;an indirect suggestion. 'not a breath of scandal ever touched her'
addiction;being abnormally dependent on something that is psychologically or physically habit-forming (especially alcohol or narcotic drugs)
melanoma;any of several malignant neoplasms (usually of the skin) consisting of melanocytes
crushing;forceful prevention: 'suppression of liberal newspapers'. 'quelling of the revolution'
megalocardia;an abnormal enlargement of the heart. mild cardiomegaly is common in athletes
crown;the award given to the champion
brain fever;meningitis caused by bacteria and often fatal
yea;an affirmative. 'the yeas have it'
prevue;an advertisement consisting of short scenes from a motion picture that will appear in the near future
poking;a sharp hand gesture (resembling a blow). 'he warned me with a jab with his finger'. 'he made a thrusting motion with his fist'
breach;a failure to perform some promised act or obligation
blood transfusion;the introduction of blood or blood plasma into a vein or artery
situation;"physical position in relation to the surroundings"
point;a brief version of the essential meaning of something. 'get to the point'. 'he missed the point of the joke'. 'life has lost its point'
fluent aphasia;aphasia characterized by fluent but meaningless speech and severe impairment of the ability understand spoken or written words
commencement;the act of starting something. 'he was responsible for the beginning of negotiations'
sweeping;the act of cleaning with a broom
encroachment;entry to another's property without right or permission
directory;(computer science) a listing of the files stored in memory (usually on a hard disk)
dance step;a sequence of foot movements that make up a particular dance. 'he taught them the waltz step'
occasion;an opportunity to do something. 'there was never an occasion for her to demonstrate her skill'
blindness;lack of sight
newspaper advertisement;a printed advertisement that is published in a newspaper
biff;(boxing) a blow with the fist
acute myelocytic leukemia;acute leukemia characterized by proliferation of granular leukocytes. most common in adolescents and young adults
pain;a symptom of some physical hurt or disorder. 'the patient developed severe pain and distension'
acute brain disorder;any disorder (as sudden confusion or disorientation) in an otherwise normal person that is due to reversible (temporary) impairment of brain tissues (as by head injuries or drugs or infection)
word painting;a graphic or vivid verbal description. 'too often the narrative was interrupted by long word pictures'. 'the author gives a depressing picture of life in poland'
hand schuller christian disease;inflammatory histiocytosis associated with disturbance of cholesterol metabolism. occurs chiefly in young children and is characterized by cystic defects of the skull and diabetes insipidus
hardening;abnormal hardening or thickening of tissue
failure;an act that fails
dogshit;a ludicrously false statement
stroke;any one of the repeated movements of the limbs and body used for locomotion in swimming or rowing
supposition;a message expressing an opinion based on incomplete evidence
tomato blight;a disease of tomato plants
kaposi s sarcoma;a sarcoma that starts with purplish spots on the and spreads from the skin to the lymph nodes and internal organs. a common manifestation of aids. 'until 1980 karposi's sarcoma occurred almost exclusively with jewish or italian or black men'
verification;additional proof that something that was believed is true. 'fossils provided further confirmation of the evolutionary theory'
protrusion;the act of projecting out from something
halo blight;a blight of bean plants
necessity;the condition of being essential or indispensable
celiac disease;a disorder in children and adults. inability to tolerate wheat protein (gluten). symptoms include foul-smelling diarrhea and emaciation. often accompanied by lactose intolerance
abarticulation;dislocation of a joint
damping off;a plant disease caused by a fungus. diseased condition of seedlings in excessive moisture
pneumonic plague;characterized by lung involvement
ribaldry;ribald humor
cutting;the act of diluting something. 'the cutting of whiskey with water'. 'the thinning of paint with turpentine'
trace;a suggestion of some quality. 'there was a touch of sarcasm in his tone'. 'he detected a ghost of a smile on her face'
blame;an accusation that you are responsible for some lapse or misdeed. 'his incrimination was based on my testimony'. 'the police laid the blame on on the driver'
gambling;the act of playing for stakes in the hope of winning (including the payment of a price for a chance to win a prize). 'his gambling cost him a fortune'. 'there was heavy play at the blackjack table'
mercy killing;the act of killing someone painlessly (especially someone suffering from an incurable illness)
out of court settlement;resolution of a dispute prior to the rendering of a final decision by the trial court
stagnancy;a state of inactivity (in business or art etc). 'economic growth of less than 1% per year is considered to be economic stagnation'
callus;bony tissue formed during the healing of a fractured bone
abscess;localized collection of pus surrounded by inflamed tissue
standing order;a rule of order permanently in force
sidesplitter;a joke that seems extremely funny
profession;an open avowal (true or false) of some belief or opinion. 'a profession of disagreement'
secondary amenorrhea;cessation of menstruation in a woman who had previously menstruated
blister blight;a disease of scotch pines
shoplifting;the act of stealing goods that are on display in a store
shooting;killing by gunfire
glide;the act of sliding or gliding
kickoff;a kick from the center of the field to start a football game or to resume it after a score
purchase;a means of exerting influence or gaining advantage. 'he could get no purchase on the situation'
producer price index;an index of changes in wholesale prices
positive fraud;actual deceit. concealing something or making a false representation with an evil intent to cause injury to another
md;a doctor's degree in medicine
nonsense;a message that seems to convey no meaning
treachery;an act of deliberate betrayal
cutting;the act of cutting something into parts. 'his cuts were skillful'. 'his cutting of the cake made a terrible mess'
kill;the destruction of an enemy plane or ship or tank or missile. 'the pilot reported two kills during the mission'
avulsion;a forcible tearing or separation of one body part from another
white plague;an addiction to a drug (especially a narcotic drug)
hypercarbia;the presence of an abnormally high level of carbon dioxide in the circulating blood
airing;an short excursion (a walk or ride) in the open air. 'after lunch he took the air'. 'he took the dogs for an airing'
rubella;milder than measles but damaging to the fetus during the first trimester
speed limit;regulation establishing the top speed permitted on a given road
removal;dismissal from office
recognition;the act of preferring. 'the preferment went to the younger candidate'
disdain;a communication that indicates lack of respect by patronizing the recipient
onus;an onerous or difficult concern. 'the burden of responsibility'. 'that's a load off my mind'
chinese restaurant syndrome;headache and tingling or burning feelings and sweating caused by eating food that contains monosodium glutamate
nullity;the state of nonexistence
graduation;the successful completion of a program of study
feather;turning an oar parallel to the water between pulls
tracheitis;inflammation of the trachea
simple fracture;an uncomplicated fracture in which the broken bones to not pierce the skin
voyage;a journey to some distant place
promotion;act of raising in rank or position
blockage;the act of blocking
zoning;dividing an area into zones or sections reserved for different purposes such as residence and business and manufacturing etc
crudeness;a natural or unrefined state
curtain call;an appearance by actors or performers at the end of the concert or play in order to acknowledge the applause of the audience
dodging;nonperformance of something distasteful (as by deceit or trickery) that you are supposed to do. 'his evasion of his clear duty was reprehensible'. 'that escape from the consequences is possible but unattractive'
acute myeloid leukemia;acute leukemia characterized by proliferation of granular leukocytes. most common in adolescents and young adults
disruption;the act of causing disorder
glamorization;the act of glamorizing. making something or someone more beautiful (often in a superficial way)
storm center;a center of trouble or disturbance
unionization;act of forming labor unions
regression;an abnormal state in which development has stopped prematurely
ipse dixit;an unsupported assertion
bleeder s disease;congenital tendency to uncontrolled bleeding. usually affects males and is transmitted from mother to son
uniting;making or becoming a single unit. 'the union of opposing factions'. 'he looked forward to the unification of his family for the holidays'
cutting;the act of penetrating or opening open with a sharp edge. 'his cut in the lining revealed the hidden jewels'
leptospirosis;an infectious disease cause by leptospira and transmitted to humans from domestic animals. characterized by jaundice and fever
incubus;a situation resembling a terrifying dream
regulatory offense;crimes created by statutes and not by common law
asynergy;absence of coordination of organs or body parts that usually work together harmoniously
hippocratic oath;an oath taken by physicians to observe medical ethics deriving from hippocrates
laceration;a torn ragged wound
am;a master's degree in arts and sciences
accord;a written agreement between two states or sovereigns
local anaesthesia;loss of sensation in a small area of the body (as when a local anesthetic is injected for a tooth extraction)
safe conduct;a document or escort providing safe passage through a region especially in time of war
antecedent;"a preceding occurrence or cause or event"
shift;the act of moving from one place to another
pinkeye;inflammation of the conjunctiva of the eye
greenstick fracture;a partial fracture of a bone (usually in children). the bone is bent but broken on only one side
breakbone fever;an infectious disease of the tropics transmitted by mosquitoes and characterized by rash and aching head and joints
rescinding;cancellation of a contract and the return of the parties to the positions they would have had if the contract had not been made
deviltry;wicked and cruel behavior
mistaking;putting the wrong interpretation on. 'his misinterpretation of the question caused his error' or 'there was no mistaking her meaning'
prance;a proud stiff pompous gait
misdemeanour;a crime less serious than a felony
animadversion;harsh criticism or disapproval
hypermetropia;abnormal condition in which vision for distant objects is better than for near objects
numbering;a numbered list
inside job;some transgression committed with the assistance of someone trusted by the victim. 'the police decided that the crime was an inside job'
thrust;verbal criticism. 'he enlivened his editorials with barbed thrusts at politicians'
separateness;political independence. 'seeking complete political separateness for taiwan'
derivation;(historical linguistics) an explanation of the historical origins of a word or phrase
spontaneous abortion;a natural loss of the products of conception
fulsomeness;excessive but superficial compliments given with affected charm
myocarditis;inflammation of the myocardium (the muscular tissue of the heart)
conduction deafness;hearing loss due to problems with the bones of the middle ear
visa;an endorsement made in a passport that allows the bearer to enter the country issuing it
autosomal dominant disease;a disease caused by a dominant mutant gene on an autosome
impersonation;pretending to be another person
humour;a message whose ingenuity or verbal skill or incongruity has the power to evoke laughter
reactive depression;an inappropriate state of depression that is precipitated by events in the person's life (to be distinguished from normal grief)
slam;an aggressive remark directed at a person like a missile and intended to have a telling effect. 'his parting shot was 'drop dead''. 'she threw shafts of sarcasm'. 'she takes a dig at me every chance she gets'
say so;an authoritative declaration
marketplace;"the world of commercial activity where goods and services are bought and sold. 'without competition there would be no market'. 'they were driven from the marketplace'"
funny story;an account of an amusing incident (usually with a punch line)
acephalia;absence of the head (as in the development of some monsters)
myotonia atrophica;a severe form of muscular dystrophy marked by facial weakness and drooping eyelids and difficult speech and difficulty with the hands that spreads to the arms and shoulders and legs and hips
open secret;something that is supposed to be secret but is generally known. 'their love affair was an open secret'
fiddle faddle;trivial nonsense
apostasy;the state of having rejected your religious beliefs
fetal alcohol syndrome;a condition in which body deformation or facial development or mental ability of a fetus is impaired because the mother drank alcohol while pregnant
pericementoclasia;pus pocket formation around a tooth
recordbook;a compilation of the known facts regarding something or someone. 'al smith used to say, 'let's look at the record''. 'his name is in all the recordbooks'
rheumatism;any painful disorder of the joints or muscles or connective tissues
everting;the act of turning inside out
finish;the act of finishing. 'the speaker's finish was greeted with applause'
rejuvenation;the act of restoring to a more youthful condition
rise to power;the act of attaining a new office or right
reduction;the act of decreasing or reducing something
punch;(boxing) a blow with the fist
disability;the condition of being unable to perform as a consequence of physical or mental unfitness
dispersion;the act of dispersing something
disqualifying;the act of preventing someone from participating by finding them unqualified
spoonerism;transposition of initial consonants in a pair of words
flutter;the act of moving back and forth
malignment;slanderous defamation
emasculation;neutering a male animal by removing the testicles
sapraemia;blood poisoning caused by putrefactive bacteria. results from eating putrified matter
golf stroke;the act of swinging a golf club at a golf ball and (usually) hitting it
chewing out;a severe scolding
homework problem;a problem that students are assigned to do outside of class
encasement;the act of enclosing something in a case
firing;the act of starting a fire
albright s disease;fibrous dysplasia of bone affecting multiple bones
positive stimulus;a stimulus with desirable consequences
walkabout;a public stroll by a celebrity to meet people informally
overshoot;an approach that fails and gives way to another attempt
plumbism;toxic condition produced by the absorption of excessive lead into the system
scrofula;a form of tuberculosis characterized by swellings of the lymphatic glands
dormancy;a state of quiet (but possibly temporary) inaction
convergence;the act of converging (coming closer)
papilloma;a benign epithelial tumor forming a rounded mass
trespass;a wrongful interference with the possession of property (personal property as well as realty), or the action instituted to recover damages
settlement;the act of colonizing
pump priming;introducing water into a pump to improve the seal and start the water flowing
gas;a state of excessive gas in the alimentary canal
strangles;an acute bacterial disease of horses characterized by inflammation of the mucous membranes
punning;a humorous play on words. 'i do it for the pun of it'
won lost record;(sports) a record of win versus losses
stomachache;an ache localized in the stomach or abdominal region
dissolution;the termination of a meeting
stammer;a speech disorder involving hesitations and involuntary repetitions of certain sounds
affectation;a deliberate pretense or exaggerated display
inventory;a detailed list of all the items in stock
cross index;a reference at one place in a work to information at another place in the same work
hemorrhagic cyst;a cyst containing blood
agitation;the act of agitating something. causing it to move around (usually vigorously)
double first;(great britain) a first-class honours degree in two subjects
disrespect;an expression of lack of respect
discouragement;the act of discouraging. 'the dscouragement of petty theft'
thrust;a sharp hand gesture (resembling a blow). 'he warned me with a jab with his finger'. 'he made a thrusting motion with his fist'
neurosarcoma;a malignant neoplasm of nerve tissue and fibrous tissue and connective tissue
retroflexion;the act of bending backward
purple heart;a us military decoration awarded to any member of the armed forces who is wounded in action
labor contract;contract between labor and management government wages and benefits and working conditions
previous question;a motion calling for an immediate vote on the main question under discussion by a deliberative assembly
advance;the act of moving forward toward a goal
minutia;a small or minor detail. 'he had memorized the many minutiae of the legal code'
canvas;the setting for a narrative or fictional or dramatic account. 'the crowded canvas of history.' 'the movie demanded a dramatic canvas of sound'
change;the result of alteration or modification. 'there were marked changes in the lining of the lungs'. 'there had been no change in the mountains'
contract;(bridge) the highest bid becomes the contract setting the number of tricks that the bidder must make
context;the set of facts or circumstances that surround a situation or event. 'the historical context'
purulency;the state of being purulent (containing or forming pus)
seminoma;malignant tumor of the testis. usually occurring in older men
primitivism;a natural or unrefined state
horoscope;a prediction of someone's future based on the relative positions of the planets
exhaustion;extreme fatigue
relaxation;freedom from activity (work or strain or responsibility). 'took his repose by the swimming pool'
closure;a rule for ending debate in a deliberative body
atrophic arthritis;a chronic autoimmune disease with inflammation of the joints and marked deformities
tuberculosis;infection by the tubercle bacillus manifesting itself in lesions of various parts of the body (especially the lungs and bones)
hebraic alphabet;a semitic alphabet used since the 5th century bc
ploy;an opening remark intended to secure an advantage for the speaker
pain in the neck;something or someone that causes trouble. a source of unhappiness. 'a bit of a bother'
bosh;pretentious or silly talk or writing
frame up;an act that incriminates someone on a false charge
word;a brief statement. 'he didn't say a word about it'
climb;the act of climbing something
subnormality;the state of being less than normal (especially with respect to intelligence)
irreverence;a disrespectful act
tsutsugamushi disease;transmitted by larval mites and widespread in asia
complication;any disease or disorder that occurs during the course of (or because of) another disease. 'bed sores are a common complication in cases of paralysis'
variola;a highly contagious viral disease characterized by fever and weakness and skin eruption with pustules that form scabs that slough off leaving scars
construction;an interpretation of a text or action. 'they put an unsympathetic construction on his conduct'
cornhusking;the act of removing the husks from ears of corn
furtherance;encouragement of the progress or growth or acceptance of something
limping;disability of walking due to crippling of the legs or feet
high treason;a crime that undermines the offender's government
ballup;(british) something badly botched or muddled
truth;conformity to reality or actuality. 'they debated the truth of the proposition'. 'the situation brought home to us the blunt truth of the military threat'. 'he was famous for the truth of his portraits'. 'he turned to religion in his search for eternal verities'
queasiness;a mild state of nausea
blackening;changing to a darker color
regulation;an authoritative rule or law
physiological jaundice of the newborn;yellowish appearance in newborn infants. usually subsides spontaneously
slumber;a dormant or quiescent state
interdict;an ecclesiastical censure by the roman catholic church withdrawing certain sacraments and christian burial from a person or all persons in a particular district
geneva convention;an agreement concerning the treatment of war prisoners
periodontitis;a disease that attacks the gum and bone and around the teeth
clear and present danger;a standard for judging when freedom of speech can be abridged. 'no one has a right to shout 'fire' in a crowded theather when there is no fire because such an action would pose a clear and present danger to public safety'
broadening;the act of making something wider
data format;the organization of information according to preset specifications (usually for computer processing)
welcoming;a greeting or reception. 'the proposal got a warm welcome'
exhibit;an object or statement produced before a court of law and referred to while giving evidence
shearing;removing by cutting off or clipping
tularaemia;disease of rodents (especially rabbits and squirrels) and sometimes transmitted to humans by ticks or flies or by handling infected animals
canine distemper;a viral disease of young dogs characterized by high fever and respiratory inflammation
perfecta;a bet that you can pick the first and second finishers in the right order
potato mildew;a blight of potatoes
doldrums;a state of inactivity (in business or art etc). 'economic growth of less than 1% per year is considered to be economic stagnation'
azoturia;excess of urea in the urine
conspiracy;a secret agreement between two or more people to perform an unlawful act
fungal infection;an inflammatory condition caused by a fungus
agranulosis;an acute blood disorder (often caused by radiation or drug therapy) characterized by severe reduction in granulocytes
bunco game;a swindle in which you cheat at gambling or persuade a person to buy worthless property
consideration;"information that should be kept in mind when making a decision. 'another consideration is the time it would take'"
footfault;a mistake that occurs when the server in tennis fails to keep both feet behind the baseline
collar blight;a disease affecting the trunks of pear and apple trees
intension;what you must know in order to determine the reference of an expression
barbarisation;an act that makes people primitive and uncivilized
market letter;a newsletter written by an analyst of the stock market and sold to subscribers
cot death;sudden and unexpected death of an apparently healthy infant during sleep
huntington s disease;hereditary. develops in adulthood and ends in dementia
internet protocol;a set of protocols (including tcp) developed for the internet in the 1970s to get data from one network device to another
notch;a small cut
giantism;excessive size. usually caused by excessive secretion of growth hormone from the pituitary gland
damnation;"the state of being condemned to eternal punishment in hell"
logagraphia;a loss of the ability to write or to express thoughts in writing because of a brain lesion
marriage;a close and intimate union. 'the marriage of music and dance'. 'a marriage of ideas'
designatum;something (whether existing or not) that is referred to by a linguistic expression
hypercellularity;the state of having abnormally many cells
mistake;part of a statement that is not correct. 'the book was full of errors'
shutting;the act of closing something
portion;"your overall circumstances or condition in life (including everything that happens to you): 'whatever my fortune may be'. 'deserved a better fate'. 'has a happy lot'. 'the luck of the irish'. 'a victim of circumstances'. 'success that was her portion'"
altogether;informal. 'in the raw' or 'in his birthday suit'
viaticus settlement;sale of an insurance policy by a terminally ill policy holder
newcastle disease;disease of domestic fowl and other birds
roguery;reckless or malicious behavior that causes discomfort or annoyance in others
cellulitis;an inflammation of body tissue (especially that below the skin) characterized by fever and swelling and redness and pain
overture;a tentative suggestion designed to elicit the reactions of others. 'she rejected his advances'
hunch;the act of bending yourself up together
destiny;"your overall circumstances or condition in life (including everything that happens to you): 'whatever my fortune may be'. 'deserved a better fate'. 'has a happy lot'. 'the luck of the irish'. 'a victim of circumstances'. 'success that was her portion'"
battle of the little bighorn;a battle in montana near the little bighorn river between general custer's cavalry and several groups of native americans (1876). custer was pursuing sioux led by sitting bull. custer underestimated the size of the sioux forces (which were supported by cheyenne warriors) and was killed along with all his command
neuritis;inflammation of a nerve accompanied by pain and sometimes loss of function
petty larceny;larceny of property having a value less than some amount (the amount varies by locale)
erasure;deletion by an act of expunging or erasing
stab;a thrusting blow with a knife
laminitis;inflammation of the laminated tissue that attaches the hoof to the foot of a horse
response;a result. 'this situation developed in response to events in africa'
gynophobia;a morbid fear of women
timetable;a schedule listing events and the times at which they will take place
plaudits;enthusiastic approval. 'the book met with modest acclaim'. 'he acknowledged the plaudits of the crowd'. 'they gave him more eclat than he really deserved'
creeps;a disease of cattle and sheep attributed to a dietary deficiency. characterized by anemia and softening of the bones and a slow stiff gait
speech rhythm;the arrangement of spoken words alternating stressed and unstressed elements. 'the rhythm of frost's poetry'
omnipotence;"the state of being omnipotent. having unlimited power"
fold;the act of folding. 'he gave the napkins a double fold'
macrocephaly;an abnormally large head. differs from hydrocephalus because there is no increased intracranial pressure and the overgrowth is symmetrical
urinary tract infection;any infection of any of the organs of the urinary tract
flounce;the act of walking with exaggerated jerky motions
neutering;the sterilization of an animal
acceptance;the state of being acceptable and accepted. 'torn jeans received no acceptance at the country club'
angioma;a tumor consisting of a mass of blood or lymphatic vessels
welcome;a greeting or reception. 'the proposal got a warm welcome'
forwarding;the advancement of some enterprise. 'his experience in marketing resulted in the forwarding of his career'
leavening;an influence that works subtly to lighten or modify something. 'his sermons benefited from a leavening of humor'
drive;a journey in a vehicle driven by someone else. 'he took the family for a drive in his new car'
syllabus;a course of academic studies. 'he was admitted to a new program at the university'
power dive;a dive accelerated by both gravity and engine power
colpitis;inflammation of the vagina
loosening;the act of making something less tight
hustle;a swindle in which you cheat at gambling or persuade a person to buy worthless property
sleep;euphemisms for death (based on an analogy between lying in a bed and in a tomb). 'she was laid to rest beside her husband'. 'they had to put their family pet to sleep'
spiritualization;the act of making something spiritual. infusing it with spiritual content
putting to death;the act of terminating a life
pachyderma;thickening of the skin (usually unilateral on an extremity) caused by congenital enlargement of lymph vessel and lymph vessel obstruction
cryophobia;a morbid fear of freezing
fibbing;a trivial act of lying
appropriation;incorporation by annexation
gloss;an explanation or definition of an obscure word in a text
haemangioma;angioma consisting of a mass of blood vessels
asystole;absence of systole. failure of the ventricles of the heart to contract (usually caused by ventricular fibrillation) with consequent absence of the heart beat leading to oxygen lack and eventually to death
fardel;(archaic) a burden (figuratively in the form of a bundle)
wordnet;a machine-readable lexical database organized by meanings
retarded depression;a state of clinical depression in which the individual is lethargic and slow to initiate action
anomaly;deviation from the normal or common order or form or rule
pleurodynia;pain in the chest caused by inflammation of the muscles between the ribs
round trip;a trip to some place and back again
bunk;a ludicrously false statement
biquadratic;and equation of the fourth degree
preferment;the act of making accusations. 'preferment of charges'
handing over;the act of passing something to another person
detraction;a petty disparagement
melioration;the act of relieving ills and changing for the better
steer;an indication of potential opportunity. 'he got a tip on the stock market'. 'a good lead for a job'
easy money;the economic condition in which credit is easy to secure
regress;returning to a former state
response;a statement (either spoken or written) that is made in reply to a question or request or criticism or accusation. 'i waited several days for his answer'. 'he wrote replies to several of his critics'
scrub;the act of cleaning a surface by rubbing it with a brush and soap and water
granville wilt;a bacterial wilt of tobacco plants
aerodontalgia;pain in the teeth that results from a change in air pressure (as in flying of mountain climbing)
poor shape;poor physical condition. being out of shape or out of condition
television news;a television broadcast of news
rehabilitation;the conversion of waste land into land suitable for use of habitation or cultivation
abrasion;an abraded area where the skin is torn or worn off
indicator;a number or ratio (a value on a scale of measurement) derived from a series of observed facts. can reveal relative changes as a function of time
falseness;the state of being false or untrue. 'argument could not determine its truth or falsity'
debasement;changing to a lower state (a less respected state)
encomium;a formal expression of praise
pyelonephritis;inflammation of the kidney and its pelvis caused by bacterial infection
azotemia;accumulation in the blood of nitrogen-bearing waste products (urea) that are usually excreted in the urine
gonorrhoea;a common venereal disease caused by the bacterium neisseria gonorrhoeae. symptoms are painful urination and pain around the urethra
purulence;the state of being purulent (containing or forming pus)
ridiculousness;a message whose content is at variance with reason
avaritia;reprehensible acquisitiveness. insatiable desire for wealth (personified as one of the deadly sins)
arrest;the state of inactivity following an interruption. 'the negotiations were in arrest'. 'held them in check'. 'during the halt he got some lunch'. 'he spent the entire stay in his room'
stride;a step in walking or running
tko;a knockout declared by the referee who judges one boxer unable to continue
sneering;a facial expression of contempt or scorn. the upper lip curls
petit larceny;larceny of property having a value less than some amount (the amount varies by locale)
origination;starting something for the first time
honorable mention;an official recognition of merit. 'although he didn't win the prize he did get special mention'
regression;returning to a former state
passing shot;a tennis return that passes an opponent who has approached the net
head blight;a blight of the heads of cereals
warble;a lumpy abscess under the hide of domestic mammals caused by larvae of a botfly or warble fly
fixation;an abnormal state in which development has stopped prematurely
burning;the act of burning something. 'the burning of leaves was prohibited by a town ordinance'
ataxia;inability to coordinate voluntary muscle movements. unsteady movements and staggering gait
conversion reaction;a mental disorder characterized by the conversion of mental conflict into somatic forms (into paralysis or anesthesia having no apparent cause)
muscae volitantes;caused by opaque cell fragments in the vitreous humor and lens
whopper;a gross untruth
troth;a mutual promise to marry
lecture;a lengthy rebuke. 'a good lecture was my father's idea of discipline'. 'the teacher gave him a talking to'
determining factor;a determining or causal element or factor: 'education is an important determinant of one's outlook onlife'
pseudohypertrophic dystrophy;the most common form of muscular dystrophy. x-linked recessive (affecting only males)
finalisation;the act of finalizing
figure;a predetermined set of movements in dancing or skating. 'she made the best score on compulsory figures'
pycnosis;a degenerative state of the cell nucleus
play;a deliberate coordinated movement requiring dexterity and skill. 'he made a great play'
visiting card;a written greeting that is left to indicate that you have visited
swabbing;cleaning with a mop
word sense;the meaning of a word
disorder;"a condition in which things are not in their expected places: 'the files are in complete disorder'"
carpal tunnel syndrome;a disorder caused by compression of a nerve in the carpal tunnel (where the nerve passes through the wrist). characterized by discomfort and weakness in the hand
typhus;transmitted by body lice and characterized by skin rash and high fever
switch;the act of changing one thing or position for another. 'his switch on abortion cost him the election'
exacta;a bet that you can pick the first and second finishers in the right order
claudication;disability of walking due to crippling of the legs or feet
anterior synechia;adhesion between the iris and the cornea
quietus;euphemisms for death (based on an analogy between lying in a bed and in a tomb). 'she was laid to rest beside her husband'. 'they had to put their family pet to sleep'
cicatrix;a mark left by the healing of injured tissue
slickness;verbal misrepresentation intended to take advantage of you in some way
stem blight;a fungous blight attacking the stems of plants
coccidioidomycosis;an infection of the lungs and skin characterized by excessive sputum and nodules
milk sickness;disease of livestock and especially cattle poisoned by eating certain kinds of snakeroot
metastatic tumor;a tumor that is malignant and tends to spread to other parts of the body
deadly sin;an unpardonable sin entailing a total loss of grace. theologians list 7 mortal sins
iron deficiency anemia;a form of anemia due to lack of iron in the diet or to iron loss as a result of chronic bleeding
weal;a raised mark on the skin (as produced by a blow)
kicking;a rhythmic thrusting movement of the legs as in swimming or calisthenics. 'the kick must be synchronized with the arm movements'
pavor nocturnus;a disorder of sleep characterized by a dream of terrifying dimensions far worse than a typical nightmare. they occur during nrem sleep
muster roll;a list of names of officers and men in a military unit or ship's company
type specimen;the original specimen from which the description of anew species is made
misstatement;a statement that contains a mistake
top dressing;a layer of fertilizer or manure not plowed in
cyclopia;a developmental abnormality in which there is only one eye
partition;separation by the creation of a boundary that divides or keeps apart
split;an increase in the number of outstanding shares of a corporation without changing the shareholders' equity. 'they announced a two-for-one split of the common stock'
incoherence;nonsense that is simply incoherent and unintelligible
res ipsa loquitur;a rule of evidence whereby the negligence of an alleged wrongdoer can be inferred from the fact that the accident happened
keratosis follicularis;a rare hereditary condition marked by dark crusted patches (sometimes containing pus)
snow job;a long and elaborate misrepresentation
bleakness;a bleak and desolate atmosphere
stinger;a remark capable of wounding mentally. 'the unkindest cut of all'
rioting;a state of disorder involving group violence
adios;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
ne plus ultra;"the state of being without a flaw or defect"
distribution agreement;a contract governing the marketing of an item of merchandise
raid;an attempt by speculators to defraud investors
enormity;an act of extreme wickedness
push down list;a list in which the next item to be removed is the item most recently stored (lifo)
invulnerability;having the strength to withstand attack
conjunctivitis;inflammation of the conjunctiva of the eye
parenthesis;a message that departs from the main subject
wheat scab;a disease of the heads of wheat plants
detonation;the act of detonating an explosion
convergency;the act of converging (coming closer)
expounding;an interpretation of the meaning of something
inconceivableness;the state of being impossible to conceive
tort;any wrongdoing for which and action for damages may be brought
prorogation;discontinuing the meetings (of a legislative body) without dissolving it
shamble;walking with a slow dragging motion without lifting your feet
ground stroke;a tennis return made by hitting the ball after it has bounced once
assault;the crime of forcing a woman to submit to sexual intercourse against her will
do;doctor's degree in osteopathy
pellagra;caused by deficiency of niacin (vitamin b3. nicotinic acid) and protein
service;the act of delivering a writ or summons upon someone. 'he accepted service of the subpoena'
remaking;assembling again
opulence;wealth as evidenced by sumptuous living
hypoadrenocorticism;a glandular disorder caused by failure of function of the cortex of the adrenal gland and marked by anemia and prostration with brownish skin
hook;a golf shot that curves to the left for a right-handed golfer
skulking;evading duty or work by pretending to be incapacitated
manslaughter;unlawful killing of a human being without malice
acute leukemia;rapidly progressing leukemia
concourse;a coming together of people
muss;a state of confusion and disorderliness. 'the house was a mess'. 'she smoothed the mussiness of the bed'
agony;a state of acute pain
up bow;an upward stroke from the tip to the heel of the bow
arthritis;inflammation of a joint or joints
rescission;cancellation of a contract and the return of the parties to the positions they would have had if the contract had not been made
airing;the act of supplying fresh air and getting rid of foul air
moonwalk;an exploratory walk by an astronaut on the surface of the moon
minimization;the act of minimizing something
street;the streets of a city viewed as a depressed environment in which there is poverty and crime and prostitution and dereliction. 'she tried to keep her children off the street'
overbid;(bridge) a bid that is higher than your opponent's bid (especially when your partner has not bid at all and your bid exceeds the value of your hand)
angry walk;a stiff or threatening gait
tack;sailing a zigzag course
stalemate;a situation in which no progress can be made: 'reached an impasse on the negotiations'
domestic flight;a flight that begins and ends in the same country
paraesthesia;abnormal skin sensations (as tingling or tickling or itching or burning) usually associated with peripheral nerve damage
linchpin;a central cohesive source of support and stability: 'faith is his anchor'. 'he is the linchpin of this firm'
adenopathy;a glandular disease or enlargement of glandular tissue (especially of the lymph glands)
reenforcement;information that makes more forcible or convincing. 'his gestures provided eloquent reinforcement for his complaints'
matter of fact;a disputed factual contention that is generally left for a jury to decide
faltering;the act of pausing uncertainly. 'there was a hesitation in his speech'
sapremia;blood poisoning caused by putrefactive bacteria. results from eating putrified matter
formication;hallucinated sensation that insects or snakes are crawling over the skin. a common side-effect of extensive use of cocaine or amphetamines
disintegration;in a decomposed state
block anaesthesia;anesthesia of an area supplied by a nerve. produced by an anesthetic agent applied to the nerve
entomophobia;a morbid fear of insects
sterilsation;the procedure of making some object free of live bacteria of other microorganisms (usually by heat or chemical means)
discriminative stimulus;a stimulus that provides information about what to do
case;a specific state of mind that is temporary. 'a case of the jitters'
blood disorder;a disease or disorder of the blood
direct evidence;evidence (usually the testimony of a witness) directly related to the fact in dispute
bull;a serious and ludicrous blunder. 'he made a bad bull of the assignment'
sanitation;making something sanitary (free of germs) as by sterilizing
malignant melanoma;any of several malignant neoplasms (usually of the skin) consisting of melanocytes
pancreatic fibrosis;a congenital disease in which the pancreas and lungs and intestines become clogged with mucus
progress;gradual improvement or growth or development: 'advancement of knowledge'. 'great progress in the arts'. 'their research and development gave them an advantagte'
eosinophilia;a symptom of allergic states. increased eosinophils in the blood
wilt;any plant disease characterized by drooping and shriveling. usually caused by parasites attacking the roots
upset;the act of upsetting something. 'he was badly bruised by the upset of his sled at a high speed'
dd;a doctor's degree in religion
guarantee;a written assurance that some product or service will be provided or will meet certain specifications
laurels;a tangible symbol signifying approval or distinction. 'an award for bravery'
mania;a mood disorder. an affective disorder in which the victim tends to respond excessively and sometimes violently
anesthesia;loss of bodily sensation with or without loss of consciousness
disorder;"a disturbance of normal functioning. 'the doctor prescribed some medicine for the disorder'. 'everyone gets stomach upsets from time to time'"
stage;a section or portion of a journey or course. 'then we embarked on the second stage of our carribean cruise'
congratulation;acknowledgement that someone has an occasion for celebration
logistic support;assistance between and within military commands
insinuation;an indirect (and usually malicious) implication
pneumonoconiosis;chronic disease caused by inhaling metallic or mineral particles
boner;an embarrassing mistake
invasion of privacy;the wrongful intrusion by individuals or the government into private affairs with which the public has no concern
mesothelioma;a rare form of carcinoma of the mesothelium lining lungs or abdomen or heart. usually associated with exposure to asbestos dust
obstructive shock;shock caused by obstruction of blood flow
whang;the act of hitting vigorously. 'he gave the table a whack'
staining;the act of spotting or staining something
status quo;the existing state of affairs
report;a short account of the news. 'the report of his speech'. 'the story was on the 11 o'clock news'. 'the account of his speech that was given on the evening news made the governor furious'
irregularity;behavior that breaches the rule or etiquette or custom or morality
free kick;(in soccer) a place kick that is allowed for a foul or infringement by the other team
language barrier;barrier to communication resulting from speaking different languages
golf shot;the act of swinging a golf club at a golf ball and (usually) hitting it
affective disorder;any mental disorder not caused by detectable organic abnormalities of the brain and in which a major disturbance of emotions is predominant
cryptococcosis;a fungal infection characterized by nodular lesions--first in the lungs and spreading to the nervous system
lying;the deliberate act of deviating from the truth
gastroenteritis;inflammation of the stomach and intestines. caused by salmonella enteritidis
stem turn;a turn made in skiing
head game;deception by creating illusory ideas
weather forecast;predicting what the weather will be
atomisation;separating something into fine particles
regulatory offence;crimes created by statutes and not by common law
hardship;a state of misfortune or affliction: 'debt-ridden farmers struggling with adversity'. 'a life of hardship'
scud;the act of moving along swiftly (as before a gale)
comedy;a comic incident or series of incidents
hot pants;(informal) a state of sexual arousal
constitution of the united states;the constitution written at the constitutional convention in philadelphia in 1787 and subsequently ratified by the original thirteen states
seed catalog;a list advertising seeds and their prices
late blight;blight in which symptoms appear late in the growing season especially a disease of solanaceous plants caused by the fungus phytophthora infestans
interagency support;provision of logistic (or administrative) support by one or more of the military services to one or more departments or agencies of the us government
grogginess;a dazed and staggering state caused by alcohol
swerving;the act of turning aside suddenly
spotting;the act of spotting or staining something
trouble;a source of difficulty: 'one trouble after another delayed the job'. 'what's the problem?'
self indulgence;immoderate indulgence of bodily appetites
trigeminal neuralgia;intense paroxysmal neuralgia along the trigeminal nerve
direction;direction or advice as to a decision or course of action
pause;temporary inactivity
u turn;complete reversal of direction of travel
german measles;milder than measles but damaging to the fetus during the first trimester
medallion;an award for winning a championship
crossword;a puzzle in which words corresponding to numbered clues are to be found and written in to squares in the puzzle
alteration;the act of making something different (as e.g. the size of a garment)
stumble;an unsteady uneven gait
distortion;the act of distorting something so it seems to mean something it was not intended to mean
hypercapnia;the presence of an abnormally high level of carbon dioxide in the circulating blood
ringworm;infections of the skin or nails caused by fungi and appearing as itching circular patches
lithiasis;the formation of stones (calculi) in an internal organ
reaction;a response that reveals a person's feelings or attitude. 'he was pleased by the audience's reaction to his performance'. 'john feared his mother's reaction when she saw the broken lamp'
convergent strabismus;strabismus in which eyes turn inward toward the nose
twist;turning or twisting around (in place). 'with a quick twist of his head he surveyed the room'
excommunication;the state of being excommunicated
extension;act of stretching or straightening out a flexed limb
tibia valga;inward slant of the thigh
exacerbation;action that makes a problem or a disease (or its symptoms) worse. 'the aggravation of her condition resulted from lack of care'
combining;the act of combining things
silver star;a us military decoration for gallantry in action
restoration;the state of being restored to its former good condition. 'the inn was a renovation of a colonial house'
crapulence;the act of drinking alcoholic beverages to excess. 'drink was his downfall'
agalactosis;a condition in which milk is not secreted in the mother's breasts after her child has been delivered
suntan;a browning of the skin resulting from exposure to the rays of the sun
crouch;the act of bending low with the limbs close to the body
position;an opinion that is held in opposition to another in an argument or dispute. 'there are two sides to every question'
arousal;awakening from sleep
exclusive;a news report that is reported first by one news organization. 'he got a scoop on the bribery of city officials'
matricide;murder of your mother
foot;travel by foot. 'he followed on foot'. 'the swiftest of foot'
dormancy;quiet and inactive restfulness
approaching;the act of drawing spatially closer to something. 'the hunter's approach scattered the geese'
circular;an advertisement (usually printed on a page or in a leaflet) intended for wide distribution. 'he mailed the circular to all subscribers'
figure eight;a skating figure that carves an 8 in the ice
waiting list;a roster of those waiting to obtain something
shin splints;painful inflammation of the muscles around the shins. frequent among runners
split down;a decrease in the number of outstanding shares of a corporation without changing the shareholders' equity
osteitis;inflammation of a bone as a consequence of infection or trauma or degeneration
trembles;disease of livestock and especially cattle poisoned by eating certain kinds of snakeroot
hunger;a physiological need for food
back door;a secret or underhand means of access (to a place or a position). 'he got his job through the back door'
genital wart;a small benign wart on or around the genitals and anus
box;a predicament from which a skillful or graceful escape is impossible. 'his lying got him into a tight corner'
plaint;a written statement of the grounds of complaint made to court law asking for the grievance to be redressed
academic degree;an award conferred by a college or university signifying that the recipient has satisfactorily completed a course of study. 'he earned his degree at princeton summa cum laude'
amenorrhea;absence or suppression of normal menstrual flow
blend;the act of blending components together thoroughly
walk;the act of walking somewhere. 'he took a walk after lunch'
feathering;turning an oar parallel to the water between pulls
colonisation;the act of colonizing
okeh;an endorsement. 'they gave us the ok to go ahead'
obituary;a notice of someone's death. usually includes a short biography
incoherency;nonsense that is simply incoherent and unintelligible
untruth;a false statement
confidence;a secret that is confided or entrusted to another. 'everyone trusted him with their confidences'. 'the priest could not reveal her confidences'
equivocation;falsification by means of vague or ambiguous language
hematoma;a localized swelling filled with blood
atrioventricular block;recurrent sudden attacks of unconsciousness caused by impaired conduction of the impulse that regulates the heartbeat
cut rate sale;an occasion (usually brief) for buying at specially reduced prices. 'they held a sale to reduce their inventory'. 'i got some great bargains at their annual sale'
assumption;a statement that is assumed to be true and from which a conclusion can be drawn. 'on the assumption that he has been injured we can infer that he will not to play'
fitness;fitness to traverse the seas
reproof;an expression of criticism and censure. 'he had to take the rebuke with a smile on his face'
obstacle;something immaterial that stands in the way and must be circumvented or surmounted: 'lack of immagination is an obstacle to one's advancement'. 'the poverty of a district is an obstacle to good education'. 'the filibuster was a major obstruction to the success of their plan'
promenade;a march of all the guests at the opening of a formal dance
mythologisation;the restatement of a message as a myth
requisition;an authoritative request
intent;the intended meaning of a communication
fire sale;a sale of merchandise damaged by fire
insistence;continual and persistent demands
assist;in sports (baseball or basketball or ice hockey) the act of enabling another player to make a good play
storm;a violent commotion or disturbance. 'the storms that had characterized their relationship had died away'. 'it was only a tempest in a teapot'
improvement;the act of improving something: 'their improvements increased the value of the property'
latitude;freedom from normal restraints in conduct: 'the new freedom in movies and novels'. 'allowed his children considerable latitude in how they spent their money'
doctor of laws;an honorary law degree
mental exhaustion;exhaustion that affects mental keenness
flag smut;smut affecting leaves and stems of cereals and other grasses
announcement;a statement about something that is happening or going to happen. 'the announcement appeared in the local newspaper'
breach of the peace;any act of molesting or interrupting or hindering or disquieting or agitating or arousing from a state of repose or otherwise depriving inhabitants of the peace and quiet to which they are entitled
spastic colon;recurrent abdominal pain and diarrhea (often alternating with periods of constipation). often associated with emotional stress
play;the removal of constraints. 'he gave free rein to his impulses'. 'they gave full play to the artist's talent'
abstraction;the act of extracting something
redefinition;a new definition
lesson;punishment intended as a warning to others. 'they decided to make an example of him'
counterproposal;a proposal offered as an alternative to an earlier proposal
atmosphere;"a particular environment or surrounding influence. 'there was an atmosphere of excitement'"
master in business;a master's degree in business
induration of the arteries;sclerosis of the arterial walls
punctilio;a fine point of etiquette or petty formality
skid;an unexpected slide
hype;blatant or sensational promotion
self aggrandizement;an act undertaken to increase your own power and influence or to draw attention to your own importance
timeless existence;a state of eternal existence believed in some religions to characterize the afterlife
bacteriaemia;transient presence of bacteria (or other microorganisms) in the blood
compromise;an accommodation in which both sides make concessions. 'the newly elected congressmen rejected a compromise because they considered it 'business as usual''
pox;a contagious disease characterized by purulent skin eruptions that may leave pock marks
foundation;starting something for the first time
indentation;the act of indenting
takeover bid;an offer to buy shares in order to take over the company
pursuit;the act of pursuing
acataphasia;a disorder in which a lesion to the central nervous system leaves you unable to formulate a statement or to express yourself in an organized manner
black death;the epidemic form of bubonic plague experienced during the middle ages
hairy root;a phase of crown gall (especially in apples) during which there is abnormal development of fine fibrous roots
hypovolemia;a blood disorder consisting of a decrease in the volume of circulating blood
banking game;any gambling game in which bets are laid against the gambling house or the dealer
fragmentation;separating something into fine particles
leucopenia;an abnormal lowering of the white blood cell count
justification;something (such as a fact or circumstance) that shows an action to be reasonable or necessary: 'he considered misrule a justification for revolution'
potato yellow dwarf;the yellow dwarf disease of potato plants
inroad;an encroachment or intrusion. 'they made inroads in the us market'
wave off;an approach that fails and gives way to another attempt
aftereffect;a delayed effect of a drug or therapy. 'the drug had unexpected aftereffects'
newsflash;a short news announcement concerning some on-going news story
tightness;a state occasioned by scarcity of money and a shortage of credit
recommendation;something that recommends (or expresses commendation)
amplification;addition of extra material or illustration or clarifying detail: 'a few remarks added in amplification and defense'. 'an elaboration of the idea followed'
evacuation;the act of removing the contents of something
major affective disorder;any mental disorder not caused by detectable organic abnormalities of the brain and in which a major disturbance of emotions is predominant
docket;a list of matters to be taken up (as at a meeting)
logginess;a dull and listless state resulting from weariness
drive;the act of driving a herd of animals overland
demythologisation;the restatement of a message (as a religious one) in rational terms
refutation;any evidence that helps to establish the falsity of something
commercial bribery;bribery of a purchasing agent in order to induce the agent to enter into a transaction
tumescence;slight swelling
closed fracture;an uncomplicated fracture in which the broken bones to not pierce the skin
following;the act of pursuing
cause;events that provide the generative force that is the origin of something. 'they are trying to determine the cause of the crash'
pass;a document indicating permission to do something without restrictions. 'the media representatives had special passes'
hypervitaminosis;an abnormal condition resulting from taking vitamins excessively. can be serious for vitamins a or d or k
fraud in the factum;fraud that arises from a disparity between the instrument intended to be executed and the instrument actually executed. e.g., leading someone to sign the wrong contract
infarct;localized necrosis resulting from obstruction of the blood supply
tenderization;the act of making meat tender by pounding or marinating it
neglect of duty;breach of a (legal) duty
indigence;a state of extreme poverty or destitution. 'their indigence appalled him'. 'a general state of need exists among the homeless'
boundary condition;(math) a condition specified for the solution to a set of differential equations
mess;a state of confusion and disorderliness. 'the house was a mess'. 'she smoothed the mussiness of the bed'
vow;swearing to the truth of a statement. to lie under oath is to become subject to prosecution for perjury
goal kick;(association football) a kick by the defending side after the attacking side sends the ball over the goal-line
sinusitis;inflammation of one of the paranasal sinuses
exception;"an instance that does not conform to a rule or generalization. 'all her children were brilliant. the only exception was her last child'. 'an exception tests the rule'"
schrodinger wave equation;the fundamental equation of wave mechanics
tinea pedis;fungal infection of the feet
sterilisation;the act of making an organism barren or infertile (unable to reproduce)
death roll;a list of persons killed in a war or other disaster
asthenopia;a tiredness of the eyes caused by prolonged close work by a person with an uncorrected vision problem
meteorological conditions;the prevailing environmental conditions as they influence the prediction of weather
juvenile wart;a small benign growth on the faces of hands of children
guidance;direction or advice as to a decision or course of action
hearing;an opportunity to state your case and be heard. 'they condemned him without a hearing'. 'he saw that he had lost his audience'
brooder pneumonia;severe respiratory disease of birds that takes the form of an acute rapidly fatal pneumonia in young chickens and turkeys
vertical integration;absorption into a single firm of several firms involved in all aspects of a product's manufacture from raw materials to distribution
psittacosis;an atypical pneumonia caused by a rickettsia microorganism and transmitted to humans from infected birds
pinch;a painful or straitened circumstance: 'the pinch of the recession'
dislocation;a displacement of a part (especially a bone) from its normal position (as in the shoulder or the vertebral column)
deflexion;a turning aside (of your course or attention or concern): 'a diversion from the main highway'. 'a digression into irrelevant details'. 'a deflection from his goal'
anorexia;a prolonged disorder of eating due to loss of appetite
realness;the state of being actual or real: 'the reality of his situation slowly dawned on him'
diverticulitis;inflammation of a diverticulum in the digestive tract (especially the colon). characterized by painful abdominal cramping and fever and constipation
buyout bid;a bid to buy all of a person's holdings
canine chorea;chorea in dogs
scalenus syndrome;discomfort and vascular symptoms and loss of sensation in a shoulder and arm. caused by a scalene muscle compressing the subclavian artery and part of the brachial plexus
shutdown;termination of operations
ocean trip;an act of traveling by water
severing;the act of severing
rowdiness;rowdy behavior
trash;nonsensical talk or writing
lockjaw;an acute and serious infection of the central nervous system caused by bacterial infection of open wounds. spasms of the jaw and laryngeal muscles are a symptom
bronco busting;breaking a bronco to saddle
impetigo;a very contagious infection of the skin. common in children. localized redness develops into small blisters that gradually crust and erode
meeting;the act of joining together as one. 'the merging of the two groups occurred quickly'. 'there was no meeting of minds'
devilment;reckless or malicious behavior that causes discomfort or annoyance in others
eruption;any eruption of the skin
anaplasmosis;a disease of cattle that is transmitted by cattle ticks. similar to texas fever
ill service;an act intended to help that turns out badly. 'he did them a disservice'
infantilism;infantile behavior in mature persons
bachelor of arts;a bachelor's degree in arts and sciences
nuisance;something or someone that causes trouble. a source of unhappiness. 'a bit of a bother'
doctor of music;a doctor's degree in music
incineration;the act of burning something completely. reducing it to ashes
fire blight;a disease blackening the leaves of pear and apple trees
fare thee well;state of perfection. the utmost degree. 'they polished the furniture to a fare-thee-well'
bastardization;an act that debases or corrupts
anestrum;applies to nonhuman mammals: a state or interval of sexual inactivity between two periods of estrus
kabbala;an esoteric or occult matter that is traditionally secret
conn s syndrome;disturbances in salt-water balance and symptoms of weakness and muscular cramps and twitching and convulsions and sometimes paralysis. usually caused by a benign tumor of the cortex of the adrenal gland that leads to excess secretion of aldosterone
haircut;the act of cutting the hair
illness;impairment of normal physiological function affecting part or all of an organism
general;a fact about the whole (as opposed to particular). 'he discussed the general but neglected the particular'
rationalization;(math) the simplification of an expression or equation by eliminating radicals without changing the value of the expression or the roots of the equation
hot potato;a difficult situation. 'he dropped the topic like a hot potato'
scam;a fraudulent business scheme
doweling;fastening by dowels
acquiescence;passive acceptance
buncombe;a ludicrously false statement
hearsay evidence;evidence based on what someone has told the witness and not of direct knowledge
incitation;an act of inciting
oath;swearing to the truth of a statement. to lie under oath is to become subject to prosecution for perjury
discouragement;the expression of opposition and disapproval
cyclothymia;a mild bipolar disorder that persists over a long time
disparagement;a communication that belittles somebody or something
starvation;a state of extreme hunger resulting from lack of essential nutrients over a prolonged period
spaceflight;a voyage outside the earth's atmosphere
warehousing;depositing in a warehouse
common wart;a benign growth (often with a rough surface)
corker;(slang) a remarkable or astounding message. 'that story was a corker'
revoke;the mistake of not following suit when able to do so
subordination;the state of being subordinate to something
anonymous file transfer protocol;a common way to make software available. users are allowed to log in as 'guest' without a password and copy whatever has been made available
tax evasion;the deliberate failure to pay taxes (usually by making a false report)
snorter;(british) something outstandingly difficult. 'the problem was a real snorter'
feedback;response to an inquiry or experiment
seizure;the act of taking of a person by force
manic disorder;a mood disorder. an affective disorder in which the victim tends to respond excessively and sometimes violently
edd;a doctor's degree in education
guilt;"the state of having committed an offense"
loco disease;a disease of livestock caused by locoweed poisoning. characterized by weakness and lack of coordination and trembling and partial paralysis
prolapsus;the slipping or falling out of place of an organ (as the uterus)
zoom;the act of rising upward into the air
walking;the act of traveling by foot. 'walking is a healthy form of exercise'
berating;a severe rebuke. 'he deserved the berating that the coach gave him'
tay sachs disease;a hereditary disorder of lipid metabolism occuring most frequently in individuals of e european jewish descent. accumulation of lipids in nervous tissue results in death in early childhood
repositing;depositing in a warehouse
rejoinder;a pleading made by a defendant in response to the plaintiff's replication
sashay;(ballet) quick gliding steps with one foot always leading
circus;a frenetic disorganized (and often comic) disturbance suggestive of a circus or carnival. 'it was so funny it was a circus'. 'the whole occasion had a carnival atmosphere'
cheering;encouragement in the form of cheers from spectators. 'it's all over but the shouting'
boozing;the act of drinking alcoholic beverages to excess. 'drink was his downfall'
scarlatina;an acute communicable disease (usually in children) characterized by fever and a red rash
physiological state;"the condition of the body or bodily functions"
street;(informal) a situation offering opportunities. 'he worked both sides of the street'. 'cooperation is a two-way street'
sb;a bachelor's degree in science
bob;a short abrupt inclination (as of the head). 'he gave me a short bob of acknowledgement'
roadblock;any condition that makes it difficult to make progress or to achieve an objective. 'intolerance is a barrier to understanding'
innocence;"the state of being free from sin or moral wrong. lacking a knowledge of evil"
matter of law;a disputed legal contention that is generally left for a judge to decide
melagra;rheumatic or myalgic pains in the arms or legs
diarrhoea;frequent and watery bowel movements
depression;a state of depression and anhedonia so severe as to require clinical intervention
curtain raiser;any preliminary activity
uppercut;a swinging blow directed upward (especially at an opponent's chin)
catarrh;inflammation of the nose and throat with increased production of mucus
talipes;congenital deformity of the foot usually marked by a curled shape or twisted position of the ankle and heel and toes
atomisation;annihilation by reducing something to atoms
information;formal accusation of a crime
stimulant;"any stimulating information or event. acts to arouse action"
flash welding;butt welding by creating an electric arc between the two pieces which melts and joins them. used for joining segments of metal pipe
affirmative;a reply of affirmation. 'he answered in the affirmative'
dressing down;a severe scolding
message;"what a communication that is about something is about"
domestication;accommodation to domestic life. 'her explorer husband resisted all her attempts at domestication'
impasse;a situation in which no progress can be made: 'reached an impasse on the negotiations'
commentary;a written explanation or criticism or illustration that is added to a book or other textual material. 'he wrote an extended comment on the proposal'
chorea;any of several degenerative nervous disorders characterized by spasmodic movements of the body and limbs
uremia;accumulation in the blood of nitrogen-bearing waste products (urea) that are usually excreted in the urine
absurdity;a message whose content is at variance with reason
angiitis;inflammation of a blood vessel or lymph duct
tibia vara;a leg bowed outward at the knee (or below the knee)
dishonorable discharge;a discharge from the us army for a grave offense (as sabotage or espionage or cowardice or murder)
push;conses item onto the list contained in place , which can be any generalized variable containing a list and acceptable as a generalized variable to setf. stores the resulting list in place and returns the new contents of place.an effort to advance. 'the army made a push toward the sea'
scrimmage;a noisy riotous fight
evildoing;evil behavior
measles;an acute and highly contagious viral disease marked by distinct red spots followed by a rash. occurs primarily in children
menu;a list of dishes available at a restaurant. 'the menu was in french'
cervical disc syndrome;an abnormal condition resulting from compression of spinal nerve roots in the neck region. involves neck pains and muscular weakness and paresthesia
plosion;the terminal forced release of pressure built up during the occlusive phase of a stop consonant
warranty;a written assurance that some product or service will be provided or will meet certain specifications
order book;a printed copy of the order of the day
agendum;a list of matters to be taken up (as at a meeting)
riddle;a difficult problem
necrotizing enteritis;enteritis characterized by bloody diarrhea and severe abdominal pain
program;a course of academic studies. 'he was admitted to a new program at the university'
pleasure;something or someone that provides pleasure. a source of happiness. 'a joy to behold'. 'the pleasure of his company'. 'the new car is a delight'
interconnection;a state of being connected reciprocally
destruction;termination by an act of destruction
spirillum fever;the form of ratbite fever occurring in the far east
good bye;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
representation;a statement of facts and reasons made in appealing or protesting. 'certain representations were made concerning police brutality'
tritanopia;inability to distinguish blue and yellow
empirical formula;a chemical formula showing the ratio of elements in a compound rather than the total number of atoms
transfer;the act of transporting something from one location to another
news bulletin;a short news announcement concerning some on-going news story
day;a period of opportunity. 'he deserves his day in court'. 'every dog has his day'
neurasthenia;nervous breakdown (not in technical use)
malignant anemia;a chronic progressive anemia of older adults. thought to result from a lack of intrinsic factor (a substance secreted by the stomach that is responsible for the absorption of vitamin b-12)
vibration;a shaky motion. 'the shaking of his fingers as he lit his pipe'
untying;loosening the ties that fasten something. 'the tying of bow ties is an art. the untying is easy'
censorship;deleting parts of publications or correspondence or theatrical performances
flow;the act of flowing or streaming. continuous progression
jerking;an abrupt spasmodic movement
absolutism;dominance through threat of punishment and violence
play;verbal wit (often at another's expense but not to be taken seriously). 'he became a figure of fun'
granuloma inguinale;a venereal disease caused by the bacterium calymmatobacterium granulomatis. characterized by a pimply rash of the skin in the genital and groin region
choreic abasia;abasia related to abnormal movements of the legs
plain sailing;easy unobstructed progress: 'after we solved that problem the rest was plain sailing'
compact;a signed written agreement between two or more parties (nations) to perform some action
putrescence;in a state of progressive putrefaction
detente;the easing of tensions or strained relations (especially between nations)
risking;the act of gambling. 'he did it on a bet'
ruction;the act of making a noisy disturbance
ultimatum;a final peremptory demand
nihilism;complete denial of all established authority and institutions
niche;"(ecology) the status of an organism within its environment and community (affecting its survival as a species)"
macrocytic anemia;anemia in which the average size of erythrocytes is larger than normal
on tour;travelling about. 'they took the show on the road' or 'they lost all their games on the road'
infanticide;murdering an infant
shelter;the condition of being protected. 'they were huddled together for protection'. 'he enjoyed a sense of peace and protection in his new home'
installment;the act of installing something (as equipment). 'the telephone installation took only a few minutes'
purge;an act of removing by cleansing. ridding of sediment or other other undesired elements
mountain sickness;nausea and shortness of breath experienced by mountain climbers above ten thousand feet
offering;something offered (as a proposal or bid). 'noteworthy new offerings for investors included several index funds'
slipped disc;a painful rupture of the fibrocartilage of the disc between spinal vertebrae. occurs most often in the lumbar region
follow through;carrying something to full completion. 'i appreciated his follow-through on his promise'
mugging;assault with intent to rob
kernicterus;an abnormal accumulation of bile pigment in the brain and other nerve tissue. causes yellow staining and tissue damage
sachs disease;a hereditary disorder of lipid metabolism occuring most frequently in individuals of e european jewish descent. accumulation of lipids in nervous tissue results in death in early childhood
counterblow;a return blow. a retaliatory blow
indemnity;protection against future loss
working agreement;an informal agreement to work together
cast;the act of throwing dice
typhus fever;transmitted by body lice and characterized by skin rash and high fever
color bar;barrier preventing blacks from participating in various activities with whites
petty criticism;a petty disparagement
myeloid leukemia;chronic leukemia characterized by granular leukocytes. more common in older people
master of theology;a master's degree in theology
problem;a state of difficulty that needs to be resolved. 'she and her husband are having problems'. 'it is always a job to contact him'. 'urban problems such as traffic congestion and smog'
culmination;a concluding action
statute of limitations;a statute prescribing the time period during which legal action can be taken
bow legs;outward curvature of the legs
green smut;disease of rice. grains covered by a green powder consisting of conidia
anestrus;applies to nonhuman mammals: a state or interval of sexual inactivity between two periods of estrus
eyelessness;blindness due to loss of the eyes
mitigation;to act in such a way as to cause an offense to seem less serious
diarrhea;frequent and watery bowel movements
acromphalus;abnormal protrusion of the navel. sometimes the start of umbilical hernia
specific;a fact about some part (as opposed to general). 'he always reasons from the particular to the general'
herpes;viral diseases causing eruptions of the skin or mucous membrane
apology;"a poor example. 'it was an apology for a meal'"
holotype;the original specimen from which the description of anew species is made
qualification;a statement that limits or restricts some claim. 'he recommended her without any reservations'
juvenile rheumatoid arthritis;a form of rheumatoid arthritis that affects children. large joints become inflamed and bone growth may be retarded
obliteration;destruction by annihilating something
jiggery pokery;verbal misrepresentation intended to take advantage of you in some way
bow;a stroke with a curved piece of wood with taut horsehair strands that is used in playing stringed instruments
rupture;state of being torn or burst open
fault;a serve that lands outside the prescribed area. 'he served too many double faults'
bye law;a rule made by a local authority to regulate its own affairs
hog cholera;highly infectious virus disease
hurry;a condition of urgency making it necessary to hurry. 'in a hurry to lock the door'
intemperance;immoderate indulgence of bodily appetites
establishment;the cognitive process of establishing a valid proof
analgesia;absence of the sense of pain without loss of consciousness
soldering;fastening firmly together
multiple sclerosis;a chronic progressive nervous disorder involving loss of myelin sheath around certain nerve fibers
plodding;the act of walking with a sow heavy gait
jest;a humorous anecdote or remark
lipoma;a tumor consisting of fatty tissue
articles of agreement;a contract between crew and captain of a ship
pap;worthless or oversimplified ideas
gerrymander;an act of gerrymandering (dividing a voting area so as to give your own party an unfair advantage)
union;"the state of being united. 'there is strength in union'"
death;"the absence of life or state of being dead. 'he seemed more content in death than he had ever been in life'"
sclerotium rot;plant disease cause by fungi of the genus sclerotium. also one in which sclerotia are formed
pickle;informal terms for a difficult situation. 'he got into a terrible fix'. 'he made a muddle of his marriage'
change;"the act of changing something. 'the change of government had no impact on the economy'. 'his change on abortion cost him the election'"
aura;a sensation (as of a cold breeze or bright light) that precedes the onset of certain disorders such as a migraine attack or epileptic seizure
amebic dysentery;inflammation of the intestines caused by endamoeba histolytica. usually acquired by ingesting food or water contaminated with feces. characterized by severe diarrhea
career;the general progression of your working or professional life. 'the general had had a distinguished career'. 'he had a long career in the law'
squint;abnormal alignment of one or both eyes
replication;a pleading made by a plaintiff in reply to the defendant's plea or answer
influenza;an acute febrile highly contagious viral disease
subdivision;separation by the creation of a boundary that divides or keeps apart
wager;the act of gambling. 'he did it on a bet'
hyperaldosteronism;a condition caused by over-production of aldosterone
mono;an abnormal increase of mononuclear leucocytes or monocytes in the bloodstream
isometropia;equality of refractive power in the two eyes
scaling;ascent by or as if by a ladder
obligation;a legal agreement specifying a payment or action and the penalty for failure to comply
woe;misery resulting from affliction
dilapidation;a state of deterioration due to old age or long use
trim;cutting down to the desired size or shape
demurrer;any pleading that attacks the legal sufficiency of the opponent's pleadings
partitioning;separation by the creation of a boundary that divides or keeps apart
traducement;a malicious attack
false smut;disease of rice. grains covered by a green powder consisting of conidia
hindrance;"the act of hindering or obstructing or impeding"
charter;a contract to hire or lease transportation
oral contract;an agreement that is not in writing and is not signed by the parties but is a real existing contract that lacks only the formal requirement of a memorandum to render it enforceable in litigation
literal;a mistake in printed matter resulting from mechanical failures of some kind
devitalization;the act of reducing the vitality of something
major premise;the premise of a syllogism that contains the major term (which is the predicate of the conclusion)
compounding;the act of combining things
interjection;an action or remark that interrupts
alkalemia;a blood disorder characterized by a lower concentration of hydrogen ions in the blood (which rises above 7.45 on the ph scale)
endocarditis;inflammation of the endocardium and heart valves
ill turn;an act intended to help that turns out badly. 'he did them a disservice'
empty words;loud and confused and empty talk. 'mere rhetoric'
carping;persistent petty and unjustified criticism
field;a particular environment or walk of life. 'his social sphere is limited'. 'it was a closed area of employment'. 'he's out of my orbit'
rheumatism;a chronic autoimmune disease with inflammation of the joints and marked deformities
lead;evidence pointing to a possible solution. 'the police are following a promising lead'. 'the trail led straight to the perpetrator'
burst;the act of exploding or bursting something. 'the explosion of the firecrackers awoke the children'. 'the burst of an atom bomb creates enormous radiation aloft'
tendonitis;inflammation of a tendon
annotation;the act of adding notes
slicing;the act of cutting into slices
reality;the state of the world as it really is rather than as you might want it to be. 'businessmen have to face harsh realities'
stigmata;marks resembling the wounds on the crucified body of christ
left;a turn to the left. 'take a left at the corner'
air sickness;motion sickness experienced while traveling by air (especially during turbulence)
rheumatoid arthritis;a chronic autoimmune disease with inflammation of the joints and marked deformities
specimen;"an example regarded as typical of its class"
forehand stroke;a return made with the palm of the hand facing the direction of the stroke (as in tennis or badminton or squash)
sottishness;stupefaction from drink
pornography;illegal activities designed to stimulate sexual desire
shuffle;walking with a slow dragging motion without lifting your feet
recipe;directions for making something
rosette;rhizoctinia disease of potatoes
adams stokes syndrome;recurrent sudden attacks of unconsciousness caused by impaired conduction of the impulse that regulates the heartbeat
skin;a person's skin regarded as their life. 'he tried to save his skin'
paradigm;a standard or typical example. 'he is the prototype of good breeding'. 'he provided america with an image of the good father'
lag;the act of slowing down or falling behind
assault and battery;an intentional physical attack or beating that causes unlawful violence to another person
paratyphoid fever;any of a variety of infectious intestinal diseases resembling typhoid fever
misshapenness;an affliction in which some part of the body is misshapen or malformed
on the road;travelling about. 'they took the show on the road' or 'they lost all their games on the road'
neuromuscular junction;the junction between a nerve fiber and the muscle it supplies
dumdum fever;leishmaniasis of the viscera
travel;self-propelled movement
stroke;(sports) the act of swinging or striking at a ball with a club or racket or bat or cue or hand. 'a good shot require good balance and tempo'. 'he left me an almost impossible shot'
plication;folding in parallel folds
defunctness;no longer in existence. 'the extinction of a species'
example;a single item of information that is representative of a type. 'this patient provides a typical example of the syndrome'. 'there is a good example on page 10'
depletion;the act of decreasing something markedly
lap;an area of control or responsibility. 'the job fell right in my lap'
genetic abnormality;a disease or disorder that is inherited genetically
prison house;a prisonlike situation. a place of seeming confinement
disturbance of the peace;any act of molesting or interrupting or hindering or disquieting or agitating or arousing from a state of repose or otherwise depriving inhabitants of the peace and quiet to which they are entitled
bolt;the act of moving with great haste. 'he made a dash for the door'
vexation;something or someone that causes anxiety. a source of unhappiness. 'new york traffic is a constant concern'. 'it's a major worry'
rectification;the act of offering an improvement to replace a mistake
fluff;a blunder (especially an actor's forgetting the lines)
mount;the act of climbing something
slander;words falsely spoken that damage the reputation of another
meningism;symptoms that mimic those of meningitis but without inflammation of the meninges
boating;water travel for pleasure
articulation;the act of joining things in such a way that motion is possible
confutation;a conclusive refutation
gluttony;eating to excess (personified as one of the deadly sins)
mastery;power to dominate or defeat. 'mastery of the seas'
quackery;the dishonesty of a charlatan
gland disease;a disorder of the glands of the body
blood disease;a disease or disorder of the blood
homicide;unlawful premeditated killing of a human being
embrace;the state of taking in or encircling. 'an island in the embrace of the sea'
observation;facts learned by observing. 'he reported his observations to the mayor'
voicelessness;a disorder of the vocal organs that results in the loss of voice
cost plus contract;a contract in which the contractor is paid his total cost plus a stated percentage of profit
umbilical hernia;protrusion of the intestine and omentum through a hernia in the abdominal wall near the navel. usually self correcting after birth
greensickness;iron deficiency anemia in young women. characterized by weakness and menstrual disturbances and a green color to the skin
tinea capitis;fungal infection of the scalp characterized by bald patches
rigamarole;a set of confused and meaningless statements
spinal;anesthesia of the lower half of the body. caused by injury to the spinal cord or by injecting an anesthetic beneath the arachnoid membrane that surrounds the spinal cord
configuration;"an arrangement of parts or elements. 'the outcome depends on the configuration of influences at the time'"
dry gulching;the act of killing from ambush
intersection;the act of joining by causing your path to intersect your target's path
quickening;the act of accelerating. increasing the speed
run up;the approach run during which an athlete gathers speed
pinkroot;a fungal disease of onions
graft;the act of grafting something onto something else
quandary;a situation from which extrication is difficult especially an unpleasant or trying one: 'finds himself in a most awkward predicament'. 'the woeful plight of homeless people'
tread;a step in walking or running
lineation;the act of marking or outlining with lines
moratorium;suspension of an ongoing activity
news;new information about specific and timely events. 'they awaited news of the outcome'
cryoanesthesia;insensibility resulting from cold
stoop;an inclination of the top half of the body forward and downward
transcendency;the state of excelling or surpassing or going beyond usual limits
write up;a short account of the news. 'the report of his speech'. 'the story was on the 11 o'clock news'. 'the account of his speech that was given on the evening news made the governor furious'
first;(great britain) an honours degree of the highest class
sluggishness;a state of comatose torpor
abrogation;an official or legal cancellation
musicogenic epilepsy;reflex epilepsy induced by music
amebiasis;infection by a disease-causing ameba
covenant;a signed written agreement between two or more parties (nations) to perform some action
footstep;the act of taking a step in walking
throttling;the act of suffocating by constricting the windpipe. 'no evidence that the choking was done by the accused'
secondary syphilis;the second stage. characterized by eruptions of the skin and mucous membrane
forehand shot;a return made with the palm of the hand facing the direction of the stroke (as in tennis or badminton or squash)
guess;a message expressing an opinion based on incomplete evidence
word;a promise. 'he gave his word'
laryngitis;inflammation of the mucous membrane of the larynx. characterized by hoarseness or loss of voice and coughing
ulcerative colitis;a serious chronic inflammatory disease of the large intestine and rectum characterized by recurrent episodes of abdominal pain and fever and chills and profuse diarrhea
jab;a quick short straight punch
secret approval;(law) tacit approval of someone's wrongdoing
hurrying;changing location rapidly
arson;malicious burning to destroy property. 'the british term for arson is fire-raising'
bs;a bachelor's degree in science
tremor;an involuntary vibration (as if from illness or fear)
pelvic inflammatory disease;inflammation of the female pelvic organs (especially the fallopian tubes) caused by infection by any of several microorganisms (chiefly gonococci and chlamydia). symptoms are abdominal pain and fever and foul-smelling vaginal discharge
flummery;meaningless ceremonies and flattery
rock;pitching dangerously to one side
prevarication;a statement that deviates from or perverts the truth
burnup;the amount of fuel used up (as in a nuclear reactor)
highjacking;robbery of a traveller or vehicle by force
life;a characteristic state or mode of living. 'social life'. 'city life'. 'real life'
indigestion;a disorder of digestive function characterized by discomfort or heartburn or nausea
delhi boil;leishmaniasis of the skin. characterized by ulcerative skin lesions
unveiling;the act of beginning something new. 'they looked forward to the debut of their new product line'
aborticide;the act of destroying a fetus
fastening;the act of fastening things together
account;a statement that explains. 'he launched into a detailed explanation'. 'he demanded that i give an account for my failure'
closure;approaching a particular destination. a coming closer. a narrowing of a gap. 'the ship's rapid rate of closing gave them little time to avoid a collision'
nyctophobia;a morbid fear of night or darkness
ambience;"a particular environment or surrounding influence. 'there was an atmosphere of excitement'"
impropriety;an act of undue intimacy
public relations;a promotion intended to create goodwill for a person or institution
siderochrestic anemia;refractory anemia characterized by sideroblasts in the bone marrow
perfusion;pumping a liquid into an organ or tissue (especially by way of blood vessels)
confederacy;a secret agreement between two or more people to perform an unlawful act
pleating;folding in parallel folds
hall pass;written permission from a teacher for a student to be out the classroom and in the halls of the school
toe crack;a crack on the forepart of a horse's hindfoot
strikeout;an out resulting from the batter getting three strikes
indirection;deceitful action that is not straightforward. 'he could see through the indirections of diplomats'
rickets;childhood disease caused by deficiency of vitamin d and sunlight associated with impaired metabolism of calcium and phosphorus
collateral fraud;fraud that prevents a party from knowing their rights or from having a fair opportunity of presenting them at trial
hyperpiesia;persistent and pathological high blood pressure for which no specific cause can be found
disablement;the condition of being unable to perform as a consequence of physical or mental unfitness
class list;(british) a list issued by examiners that categorizes students according to the class of honours they achieved in their degree examinations
circumstantial evidence;evidence providing only a basis for inference about the fact in dispute
dissolution;dissolute indulgence in sensual pleasure
doctor of humane letters;an honorary degree in letters
smut;destructive diseases of plants (especially cereal grasses) caused by fungi that produce black powdery masses of spores
domain;a particular environment or walk of life. 'his social sphere is limited'. 'it was a closed area of employment'. 'he's out of my orbit'
stage direction;an instruction written as part of the script of a play
eligibility;the state of being eligible
acorea;absence of the pupil in an eye
clamber;an awkward climb. 'reaching the crest was a real clamber'
pulverisation;annihilation by pulverizing something
salt depletion;loss of salt from the body without replacement (loss by vomiting or profuse perspiration or urination or diarrhea) thus upsetting the electrolyte balance
splenitis;inflammation of the spleen
flight;an instance of traveling by air. 'flying was still an exciting adventure for him'
antagonism;"a state of deep-seated ill-will"
fire;intense adverse criticism. 'clinton directed his fire at jesse helms'
transportation;the act of transporting something from one location to another
plagiarisation;the act of falsely representing the ideas or work of others as your own
balderdash;trivial nonsense
phobophobia;a morbid fear of developing a phobia
broken wind;a chronic emphysema of the horse that causes difficult expiration and heaving of the flanks
strewing;the act of scattering
aeration;the act of charging a liquid with a gas making it effervescent
boom;a state of economic prosperity
dacoity;(in india and burma) robbery by a gang of armed dacoits
salvo;a sudden outburst of cheers. 'there was a salvo of approval'
leaven;an influence that works subtly to lighten or modify something. 'his sermons benefited from a leavening of humor'
change of integrity;the act of changing the unity or wholeness of something
disease of the skin;a disease affecting the skin
rabbit fever;disease of rodents (especially rabbits and squirrels) and sometimes transmitted to humans by ticks or flies or by handling infected animals
bifurcation;splitting into two branches
serum hepatitis;an acute form of viral hepatitis caused by a dna virus and transmitted by sexual contact or ingestion of contaminated blood or other bodily fluids
passage;a journey usually by ship. 'the outward passage took 10 days'
syndrome;a pattern of symptoms indicative of some disease
flier;an advertisement (usually printed on a page or in a leaflet) intended for wide distribution. 'he mailed the circular to all subscribers'
extinction;no longer active. extinguished. 'the extinction of the volcano'
fibrocystic disease of the breast;the presence of one or more cysts in a breast
meaninglessness;a message that seems to convey no meaning
eternity;a state of eternal existence believed in some religions to characterize the afterlife
rudiments;a statement of fundamental facts or principles
element;the situation in which you are happiest and most effective. 'in your element'
kabbalah;an esoteric or occult matter that is traditionally secret
muddle;a confused multitude of things
sweating sickness;a disease of cattle (especially calves)
setup;an act that incriminates someone on a false charge
cryopathy;destruction of tissue by freezing and characterized by tingling, blistering and possibly gangrene
leishmaniasis;a tropical infection caused by protozoa of the genus leishmania
wrick;a painful muscle spasm especially in the neck or back ('rick' and 'wrick' are british)
achondroplasia;an inherited skeletal disorder beginning before birth. cartilage is converted to bone resulting in dwarfism
healthiness;the state of being vigorous and free from bodily or mental disease
mailing list;a list of names and addresses to which advertising material is mailed
beheading;killing by cutting off the head
frailness;the state of being weak in health or body (especially from old age)
parry;a return punch
trauma;any physical damage to the body
regard;(usually plural) a polite expression of desire for someone's welfare. 'give him my kind regards'. 'my best wishes'
spaying;neutering a female by removing the ovaries
aspergillosis;disease especially in agricultural workers caused by inhalation of aspergillus spores causing lumps in skin and ears and respiratory organs
fibrillation;act or process of forming fibrils
dent;an appreciable consequence (especially a lessening). 'it made a dent in my bank account'
pass;a flight or run by an aircraft over a target. 'the plane turned to make a second pass'
remand;the act of sending an accused person back into custody to await trial (or the continuation of the trial)
action;"the state of being active. 'his sphere of activity'. 'he is out of action'"
pleading in the alternative;a pleading that alleges facts so separate that it is difficult to determine which facts the person intends to rely on
diabetes insipidus;diabetes resulting from a disorder of the pituitary gland
major premiss;the premise of a syllogism that contains the major term (which is the predicate of the conclusion)
cock and bull story;an interesting but highly implausible story. often told as an excuse
closing;approaching a particular destination. a coming closer. a narrowing of a gap. 'the ship's rapid rate of closing gave them little time to avoid a collision'
monopoly;(economics) a market in which there are many buyers but only one seller. 'a monopoly on silver'. 'when you have a monopoly you can ask any price you like'
bandy legs;outward curvature of the legs
parol evidence rule;a rule that oral evidence cannot be used to contradict the terms of a written contract
sacrifice fly;a sacrifice made by hitting a long fly ball
wasting time;the deliberate act of wasting time instead of working
bunion;a painful swelling of the bursa of the first joint of the big toe
shake;grasping and shaking a person's hand (as to acknowledge an introduction or to agree on a contract)
bloat;swelling of the rumen or intestinal tract of domestic animals caused by excessive gas
cut;the act of shortening something by cutting off the ends. 'the barber gave him a good cut'
embezzlement;the fraudulent appropriation of funds or property entrusted to your care but actually owned by someone else
elicitation;stimulation that calls up (evokes or induces or elicits) a particular class of behaviors
breakdown;the act of disrupting an established order
kyphosis;an abnormal backward curve to the vertebral column
empty talk;loud and confused and empty talk. 'mere rhetoric'
mumbling;ineffectual chewing (as if without teeth)
import;the message that is intended or expressed
australian crawl;a swimming stroke. arms are moved alternately overhead accompanied by a flutter kick
combustion;the act of burning something. 'the burning of leaves was prohibited by a town ordinance'
repair;the act of putting something in working order again
question;the subject matter at issue. 'the question of disease merits serious discussion'. 'under the head of minor roman poets'
stir;a rapid bustling commotion
hoax;deliberate trickery intended to gain an advantage
pneumocystosis;an opportunistic infection causing a serious form of pneumonia
popularisation;the act of making something attractive to the general public
silver star medal;a us military decoration for gallantry in action
erosion;condition in which the earth's surface is worn away by the action of water and wind
hebetude;mental lethargy or dullness
radio news;a radio broadcast of news
thing;a statement regarded as an object. 'to say the same thing in other terms' or 'how can you say such a thing?'
boxing;the enclosure of something in a box
ok;an endorsement. 'they gave us the ok to go ahead'
announcement;a formal public statement. 'the government made an announcement about changes in the drug war'
desert rheumatism;an infection of the lungs and skin characterized by excessive sputum and nodules
specialisation;the act of specializing. making something suitable for a special purpose
stultification;derision of someone or something as foolish or absurd or inconsistent
letting down;the act of causing something to move to a lower level
masquerade;making a false outward show. 'a beggar's masquerade of wealth'
removal;the act of removing. 'he had surgery for the removal of a malignancy'
hedging;an intentionally noncommittal or ambiguous statement
nonsensicality;a message that seems to convey no meaning
abscission;the act of cutting something off
cue;a stimulus that provides information about what to do
myalgia;pain in a muscle or group of muscles
index;a number or ratio (a value on a scale of measurement) derived from a series of observed facts. can reveal relative changes as a function of time
frying;cooking in fat or oil in a pan or griddle
cannulization;the insertion of a cannula into a body cavity
flight;a scheduled trip by plane between designated airports. 'i took the noon flight to chicago'
pax;(roman catholic) a greeting signifying christian love for those assisting at the eucharist
state of war;a legal state created by a declaration of war and ended by official declaration during which the international rules of war apply. 'war was declared in november but actual fighting did not begin until the following spring'
wasting away;a decrease in size of an organ caused by disease or disuse
waggishness;waggish behavior
delusional disorder;any mental disorder in which delusions play a significant role
grounding;fastening electrical equipment to earth
sailing;the activity of flying a glider
ending;the act of ending something. 'the termination of the agreement'
secureness;the state of being secure
dds;a doctor's degree in dental surgery
laying waste;destruction achieved by wrecking something
bachelor of science in architecture;a bachelor's degree in architecture
double cross;an act of betrayal. 'he gave us the old double cross'. 'i could no longer tolerate his impudent double-crossing'
name calling;verbal abuse. a crude substitute for argument
sinlessness;"the state of being free from sin or moral wrong. lacking a knowledge of evil"
albers schonberg disease;an inherited disorder characterized by an increase in bone density. in severe forms the bone marrow cavity may be obliterated
epistaxis;bleeding from the nose
commuting;the travel of a commuter
humanization;the act of making more humane
accommodation;a settlement of differences. 'they reached an accommodation with japan'
pathology;any deviation from a healthy or normal condition
bank closing;act of closing down a bank because of a fiscal emergency or failure
sexual assault;the crime of forcing a woman to submit to sexual intercourse against her will
gap;an act of delaying or interrupting the continuity. 'it was presented without commercial breaks'
reflection;a remark expressing careful consideration
root rot;disease characterized by root decay. caused by various fungi
ankylosis;abnormal adhesion and rigidity of the bones of a joint
knock;the act of hitting vigorously. 'he gave the table a whack'
burn;an injury cause by exposure to fire or chemicals or radiation
challenge;a demanding or stimulating situation. 'they reacted irrationally to the challenge of russian power'
nihil obstat;the phrase used by the official censor of the roman catholic church to say that a publication has been examined and contains nothing offensive to the church
black plague;the epidemic form of bubonic plague experienced during the middle ages
endorsement;formal and explicit approval
tinting;the act of adding a tinge of color
breach of duty;a breach of due care
dependency;"lack of independence or self-sufficiency"
fair;a sale of miscellany. often for charity. 'the church bazaar'
mrd;a machine-readable version of a standard dictionary. organized alphabetically
swat;a sharp blow
air medal;a us airforce decoration for meritorious achievement while participating in an aerial flight
cautious statement;a statement made with careful qualifications
corditis;inflammation of the spermatic cord
hotness;(informal) a state of sexual arousal
slide;the act of sliding or gliding
custer s last stand;a battle in montana near the little bighorn river between general custer's cavalry and several groups of native americans (1876). custer was pursuing sioux led by sitting bull. custer underestimated the size of the sioux forces (which were supported by cheyenne warriors) and was killed along with all his command
quantization;the act of dividing into quanta or expressing in terms of quantum theory
schistosome dermatitis;a sensitization reaction to repeated invasion of the skin by cercariae of schistosomes (human or animal)
news;information reported in a newspaper or news magazine. 'the news of my death was greatly exaggerated'
callosity;an area of skin that is thick or hard from continual pressure or friction (as the sole of the foot)
averment;a declaration that is made as if no supporting evidence were necessary
blow;a powerful stroke with the fist or a weapon. 'a blow on the head'
social stratification;"the condition of being arranged in social strata or classes"
intestinal colic;acute abdominal pain (especially in infants)
purchase contract;a contract stating the terms of a purchase
substitution;the act of putting one one thing or person in the place of another: 'he sent smith in for jones but the substitution came too late to help
goldbrick;anything that is supposed to be valuable but turns out to be worthless
stirring;agitating a liquid with a stirring implement
bustle;a rapid bustling commotion
conflict of interest;a situation in which a public official's decisions are influenced by the official's personal interests
conditioned stimulus;the stimulus the is the occasion for a conditioned response
dead heat;a tie in a race
start;the act of starting something. 'he was responsible for the beginning of negotiations'
ovation;enthusiastic recognition (especially one accompanied by loud applause)
pitching change;replacing a pitcher in baseball
epithet;descriptive word or phrase
malicious mischief;willful wanton and malicious destruction of the property of others
intrusion;entry to another's property without right or permission
rick;a painful muscle spasm especially in the neck or back ('rick' and 'wrick' are british)
affirmation;a solemn declaration that serves the same purpose as an oath (if an oath is objectionable to the person on religious or ethical grounds)
obstruction;something immaterial that stands in the way and must be circumvented or surmounted: 'lack of immagination is an obstacle to one's advancement'. 'the poverty of a district is an obstacle to good education'. 'the filibuster was a major obstruction to the success of their plan'
suffocation;killing by depriving of oxygen
fun;verbal wit (often at another's expense but not to be taken seriously). 'he became a figure of fun'
dominion;dominance or power through legal authority. 'france held undisputed dominion over vast areas of africa'. 'the rule of caesar'
fermentation;a state of agitation or turbulent change or development: 'the political ferment produced a new leadership'. 'social unrest'
spondylitis;inflammation of a spinal joint. characterized by pain and stiffness
front crawl;a swimming stroke. arms are moved alternately overhead accompanied by a flutter kick
q fever;an acute disease resembling influenza
mayhem;violent and needless disturbance
mummery;meaningless ceremonies and flattery
coughing;sudden expulsion of air from the lungs that clears the air passages. a common symptom of upper respiratory infection or bronchitis or pneumonia or tuberculosis
boloney;pretentious or silly talk or writing
tcp;a protocol developed for the internet to get data from one network device to another. 'tcp uses a retransmission strategy to insure that data will not be lost in transmission'
witticism;a message whose ingenuity or verbal skill or incongruity has the power to evoke laughter
chronic lymphocytic leukemia;chronic leukemia characterized by lymphoblast-like cells. more common in older men
hemorrhoid;pain caused by venous swelling at or inside the anal sphincter
steatocystoma;a common cyst of the skin. filled with fatty matter (sebum) that is secreted by a sebaceous gland that has been blocked
life eternal;life without beginning or end
raw throat;inflammation of the fauces and pharynx
transcendence;the state of excelling or surpassing or going beyond usual limits
info;a message received and understood that reduces the recipient's uncertainty
caveat emptor;a commercial principle that without a warranty the buyer takes upon himself the risk of quality
mountain fever;caused by a rickettsia microorganism and transmitted by wood ticks
hemeralopia;inability to see clearly in bright light
nephrolithiasis;the presence of kidney stones (calculi) in the kidney
cheer;a cry or shout of approval
excitement;the state of being excited. 'his face was flushed with excitement and his hands trembled'
sensorineural hearing loss;hearing loss due to failure of the auditory nerve
seasickness;motion sickness experienced while traveling on water
ribbon;an award for winning a championship
broadening;the action of making broader. 'the broadening of travel'
hyperemia;excessive blood in an organ or other body part
nudity;"the state of being without clothing or covering of any kind"
change of magnitude;the act of changing the amount or size of something
verity;an enduring or necessary ethical or religious or aesthetic truth
foul play;unfair or treacherous behavior (especially involving violence)
thoracic outlet syndrome;tingling sensations in the fingers. caused by compression on a nerve supplying the arm
anthrax;a highly infectious animal disease (especially cattle and sheep). it can be transmitted to people
sprinkle;watering with a sprinkler
debility;the state of being weak in health or body (especially from old age)
clean slate;an opportunity to start over without prejudice
firing;the act of terminating someone's employment
half truth;a partially true statement intended to deceive or mislead
stagnant anoxia;anoxia resulting from slow peripheral circulation (such as follows congestive cardiac failure)
despatch;the murder or execution of someone
meibomian cyst;a small sebaceous cyst of the eyelid resulting when a meibomian gland is blocked
sle;a chronic inflammatory collagen disease affecting connective tissue (skin or joints)
deterioration;a symptom of reduced quality or strength
check;additional proof that something that was believed is true. 'fossils provided further confirmation of the evolutionary theory'
tinea barbae;fungal infection of the face and neck
ratification;making something valid by formally ratifying or confirming it. 'the ratification of the treaty'. 'confirmation of the appointment'
respite;a pause from doing something (as work). 'we took a 10-minute break'. 'he took time out to recuperate'
refocusing;focusing again
lob;an easy return of a tennis ball in a high arc
visible speech;a phonetic alphabet invented by alexander melville bell in the 19th century
sauteing;cooking in fat or oil in a pan or griddle
law breaking;an act punishable by law. usually considered an evil act
morbilli;an acute and highly contagious viral disease marked by distinct red spots followed by a rash. occurs primarily in children
cardiomyopathy;a disorder (usually of unknown origin) of the heart muscle (myocardium)
typographical error;a mistake in printed matter resulting from mechanical failures of some kind
contextual definition;a definition in which the term is used by embedding it in a larger expression containing its explanation. for example, 'legal duty' might be defined contextually: 'x has a legal duty to do y means that x is required to do y by a contract relationship that would be upheld in a court of law'
epidemic meningitis;meningitis caused by bacteria and often fatal
diminution;the act of decreasing or reducing something
bull;a ludicrously false statement
advice;a proposal for an appropriate course of action
apology;an expression of regret at having caused trouble for someone. 'he wrote a letter of apology to the hostess'
straits;a bad or difficult situation or state of affairs
place kicking;a kick (in soccer or football) in which the ball is placed on the ground before kicking
flyer;an advertisement (usually printed on a page or in a leaflet) intended for wide distribution. 'he mailed the circular to all subscribers'
shirtsleeves;not wearing a jacket. 'in your shirtsleeves' means you are not wearing anything over your shirt. 'in hot weather they dined in their shirtsleeves'
agnosia;inability to recognize objects by use of the senses
sales agreement;an agreement (or contract) in which property is transferred from the seller (vendor) to the buyer (vendee) for a fixed price in money (paid or agreed to be paid by the buyer). 'the salesman faxed the sales agreement to his home office'
point of order;a question as to whether the current proceedings are allowed by parliamentary procedure
verruca acuminata;a small benign wart on or around the genitals and anus
havoc;violent and needless disturbance
afforestation;the conversion of bare or cultivated land into forest (originally for the purpose of hunting)
reign;royal authority. the dominion of a monarch
thb;a bachelor's degree in theology
supersession;act of replacing one person or thing by another especially one held to be superior
qualm;a mild state of nausea
violent disorder;violently angry and destructive behavior
pleasure trip;a journey taken for pleasure. 'many summer excursions to the shore'. 'it was merely a pleasure trip'. 'after cautious sashays into the field'
civil liberty;one's freedom to exercise one's rights as guaranteed under the laws of the country
communique;an official report (usually sent in haste)
linear equation;a polynomial equation of the first degree
bean blight;a blight of bean plants
perpetration;the act of committing a crime
blight;a state or condition being blighted
puffiness;abnormal protuberance or localized enlargement
periodontal disease;a disease that attacks the gum and bone and around the teeth
septicemic plague;an especially dangerous form in which infecting organisms invade the bloodstream
entry;the act of beginning something new. 'they looked forward to the debut of their new product line'
marburg disease;a viral disease of green monkeys. when transmitted to humans it causes serious or fatal illness
reposition;depositing in a warehouse
lot;"your overall circumstances or condition in life (including everything that happens to you): 'whatever my fortune may be'. 'deserved a better fate'. 'has a happy lot'. 'the luck of the irish'. 'a victim of circumstances'. 'success that was her portion'"
moralizing;the exposition (often superficially) of a particular moral code
poop;slang terms for inside information. 'is that the straight dope?'
herpes labialis;caused by herpes simplex virus type 1 (hvs-1)
escrow;a written agreement (or property or money) delivered to a third party or put in trust by one party to a contract to be returned after fulfillment of some condition
trailing;the pursuit (of a person or animal) by following tracks or marks they left behind
admonishment;a firm rebuke
westernization;familiarizing with or converting to customs and practices of western civilization
syphilis;a common venereal disease caused by the treponema pallidum spirochete. symptoms change through progressive stages. can be congenital (transmitted through the placenta)
centralization;consolidation of power under central control
juvenile amaurotic idiocy;a congenital progressive disorder of lipid metabolism having an onset at age 5 and characterized by blindness and dementia and early death
hypocellularity;the state of having abnormally few cells
heroin addiction;an addiction to heroin
linkage;the act of linking things together
chestnut canker;a disease of american chestnut trees
disproof;any evidence that helps to establish the falsity of something
compression fracture;fracture in which the bone collapses (especially in short bones such as vertebrae)
service;a stroke (in tennis or badminton or squash) that puts the ball in play. 'his powerful serves won the game'
epidural anesthesia;regional anesthesia resulting from injection of an anesthetic into the epidural space of the spinal cord. sensation is lost in the abdominal and genital and pelvic areas. used in childbirth and gynecological surgery
counterpunch;a return punch
jabber;rapid and indistinct speech
vulgarization;the act of making something attractive to the general public
piltdown hoax;a supposedly primitive man later proven to be a hoax
klinefelter s syndrome;a chromosomal anomaly in males who have more than one x chromosome (xxy or xxxy instead of xy). marked by small testes and long legs and enlarged breasts and decreased sperm production and mental retardation
prohibition;a law forbidding the sale of alcoholic beverages. 'in 1920 the 18th amendment to the constitution established prohibition in the us'
professing;an open avowal (true or false) of some belief or opinion. 'a profession of disagreement'
hoopla;blatant or sensational promotion
cutting;the act of shortening something by cutting off the ends. 'the barber gave him a good cut'
dysfunction;(medical) any disturbance in the function of an organ or body part
step down;the act of decreasing or reducing something
acknowledgment;the state or quality of being recognized or acknowledged
distension;the act of expanding by pressure from within
clinical depression;a state of depression and anhedonia so severe as to require clinical intervention
comment;a written explanation or criticism or illustration that is added to a book or other textual material. 'he wrote an extended comment on the proposal'
instillment;the introduction of a liquid (by pouring or injection) drop by drop
introduction;the act of putting one thing into another
rotation;the act of rotating as if on an axis. 'the rotation of the top kept time with the music'
rinsing;the removal of soap with clean water in the final stage of washing
bachelor of divinity;a bachelor's degree in religion
mix;the act of mixing. 'paste made by a mixture of flour and water'
histamine headache;a headache associated with the release of histamine from cells
urging;a verbalization that encourages you to attempt something
horseshit;a ludicrously false statement
horseback riding;riding a horse as a means of transportation
breaking away;the act of breaking away or withdrawing from: 'there was a breakaway by the discontented members'. 'a breaking away from family and neighborhood'
declassification;reduction by the government of restrictions on a classified document or weapon
dolphin kick;a swimming kick. an up and down kick of the feet together
calendar;a list or register of events (appointments or social events or court cases etc). 'i have you on my calendar for next monday'
obit;a notice of someone's death. usually includes a short biography
peliosis;any of several blood diseases causing subcutaneous bleeding
genetic disorder;a disease or disorder that is inherited genetically
fraudulence;a fraudulent or duplicitous representation
trembling;a shaky motion. 'the shaking of his fingers as he lit his pipe'
golden rule;any important rule. 'the golden rule of teaching is to be clear'
master of architecture;a degree granted for the successful completion of advanced study of architecture
bagascosis;alveolitis caused by inhaling bagasse (sugarcane dust)
bill of fare;a list of dishes available at a restaurant. 'the menu was in french'
shaggy dog story;a long rambling joke whose humor derives from its pointlessness
union;making or becoming a single unit. 'the union of opposing factions'. 'he looked forward to the unification of his family for the holidays'
lap;movement once around a course. 'he drove an extra lap just for insurance'
megalocephaly;an abnormally large head. differs from hydrocephalus because there is no increased intracranial pressure and the overgrowth is symmetrical
taradiddle;a trivial lie. 'he told a fib about eating his spinach'. 'how can i stop my child from telling stories?'
balance of payments problem;an economic problem caused by payments for imports being greater than receipts for exports
lifeline;support that enables people to survive or to continue doing something (often by providing an essential connection). 'the airlift provided a lifeline for berlin'. 'she offered me a lifeline in my time of grief'
transplanting;the act of uprooting and moving a plant to a new location
name dropping;the practice of casually mentioning important people in order to impress your listener
prescript;prescribed guide for conduct or action
amastia;absence of the mammary glands (either through surgery or developmental defect)
perilousness;the state of being dangerous
arousal;the act of arousing. 'the purpose of art is the arousal of emotions'
morale builder;something or someone who influences by building or strengthening morale
speech defect;a disorder of oral speech
carcinoma;any malignant tumor derived from epithelial tissue. one of the four major types of cancer
honours;(great britain) a university degree with honors
extrauterine pregnancy;pregnancy resulting from gestation elsewhere than in the uterus
impairment;the act of making something futile and useless (as by routine)
pulmonary congestion;congestion in the lungs
disqualification;the act of preventing someone from participating by finding them unqualified
plight;a situation from which extrication is difficult especially an unpleasant or trying one: 'finds himself in a most awkward predicament'. 'the woeful plight of homeless people'
wile;the use of tricks to deceive someone (usually to extract money from them)
meckel s diverticulum;a congenital diverticulum in the ileum resulting from incomplete closure of the yolk sac
master of arts in library science;a master's degree in library science
transcendence;a state of being or existence above and beyond the limits of material experience
amplification;(electricity) the act of increasing voltage or power or current
lou gehrig s disease;thickening of tissue in the motor tracts of the lateral columns and anterior horns of the spinal cord. results in progressive muscle atrophy that starts in the limbs
boon;a desirable state. 'enjoy the blessings of peace'. 'a spanking breeze is a boon to sailors'
prison;a prisonlike situation. a place of seeming confinement
ascendent;position or state of being dominant or in control: 'that idea was in the ascendant'
endometrial cancer;cancer of the uterine lining
anuria;inability to urinate
dislodgement;forced removal from a position of advantage
doctor of musical arts;a doctor's degree in musical arts
homogenisation;the act of homogenizing
xanthosis;an abnormal yellow discoloration of the skin
bone spavin;spavin caused by a bony growth
desire;something that is desired
animalization;an act that makes people cruel or lacking normal human qualities
somnambulism;walking by a person who is asleep
abuse;a rude expression intended to offend or hurt. 'when a student made a stupid mistake he spared them no abuse'. 'they yelled insults at the visiting team'
absurdness;a message whose content is at variance with reason
peduncle;the thin process of tissue that attaches a polyp to the body
hit;a murder carried out by an underworld syndicate. 'it has all the earmarks of a mafia hit'
pock;a pustule in an eruptive disease
upkeep;activity involved in maintaining something in good working order. 'he wrote the manual on car care'
write off;the act of cancelling a debt as uncollectible
masse shot;a shot in billiards made by hitting the cue ball with the cue held nearly vertically. the cue ball spins around another ball before hitting the object ball
despatch;an official report (usually sent in haste)
rampage;violently angry and destructive behavior
malingering;evading duty or work by pretending to be incapacitated
word of advice;cautionary advice
joyride;a ride in a car taken solely for pleasure. 'they took their girlfriends for joyrides in stolen cars'
key;a list of words or phrases that explain symbols or abbreviations
misdemeanor;a crime less serious than a felony
chromosomal anomaly;any change in the normal structure or number of chromosomes. often results in physical or mental abnormalities
crop dusting;the dispersion of fungicides or insecticides or fertilizer on growing crops (often from a low-flying aircraft)
completion;a successful forward pass in football
severable contract;a contract in which in the event of a breach by one of the parties can be considered as several independent agreements expressed in a single instrument
superinfection;infection that occurs while you are being treated for another infection
greed;reprehensible acquisitiveness. insatiable desire for wealth (personified as one of the deadly sins)
hunchback;an abnormal backward curve to the vertebral column
cpi;an index of the cost of all goods and services to a typical consumer
genuineness;the state of being genuine
walkabout;(australia) nomadic excursions into the bush made by an aborigine
cerebrospinal fever;meningitis caused by bacteria and often fatal
exchange;the act of putting one one thing or person in the place of another: 'he sent smith in for jones but the substitution came too late to help
soft soap;flattery designed to gain favor
herpes genitalis;an infection caused by herpes simplex virus type 2 (hsv-2) that is usually transmitted by sexual contact. marked by recurrent attacks of painful eruptions on the skin and mucous membranes of the genital area
moderation;the action of lessening in severity or intensity: 'the object being control or moderation of economic depressions'
handclasp;grasping and shaking a person's hand (as to acknowledge an introduction or to agree on a contract)
seller s market;a market in which more people want to buy than want to sell
poisoning;killing by the administration of poison
ruckus;the act of making a noisy disturbance
master of arts in teaching;a master's degree in teaching
overthrow;the termination of a ruler or institution (especially by force)
verruca;(pathology) a firm abnormal elevated blemish on the skin. caused by a virus
coronary artery disease;a stage of arteriosclerosis involving fatty deposits (atheromas) inside the arterial walls
need;"a condition requiring relief. 'she satified his need for affection'. 'god has no need of men to accomplish his work'. 'there is a demand for jobs'"
spastic paralysis;a loss or deficiency of motor control with involuntary spasms caused by permanent brain damage present at birth
thanking;an acknowledgment of appreciation
sail;an ocean trip taken for pleasure
speeding;changing location rapidly
accord and satisfaction;the settlement of a debt by paying less than the amount demanded in exchange for extinguishing the debt
drive;a hard straight return (as in tennis or squash)
being;"the state or fact of existing: 'a point of view gradually coming into being'. 'laws in existence for centuries'"
self destruction;killing yourself
hang gliding;gliding in a hang glider
erythroblastosis fetalis;severe anemia in newborn babies. the result of rh incompatibility between maternal and fetal blood. typically occurs when the child of an rh-negative mother inherits rh-positive blood from the father. can be diagnosed before birth by amniocentesis
kiss of peace;(roman catholic) a greeting signifying christian love for those assisting at the eucharist
contagion;any disease easily transmitted by contact
hardening;the act of making something harder (firmer or tighter or more compact)
smear word;an epithet that can be used to smear someone's reputation. 'he used the smear word 'communist' for everyone who disagreed with him'
addition;the act of adding one thing to another. 'the addition of flowers created a pleasing effect'. 'the addition of a leap day every four years'
crohn s disease;a serious chronic and progressive inflammation of the colon producing frequent bouts of diarrhea with abdominal pain and nausea and fever and weight loss
suzerainty;the position or authority of a suzerain: 'under the suzerainty of...'
regional anesthesia;loss of sensation in a region of the body produced by application of an anesthetic agent to all the nerves supplying that region (as when an epidural anesthetic is administered to the pelvic region during childbirth)
doctor of public health;a doctor's degree in preventive medicine
medical report;a report of the results of a medical examination of a patient
gen;(british) informal term for information. 'give me the gen on your new line of computers'
alternative pleading;a pleading that alleges facts so separate that it is difficult to determine which facts the person intends to rely on
divagation;a message that departs from the main subject
air;an short excursion (a walk or ride) in the open air. 'after lunch he took the air'. 'he took the dogs for an airing'
relay;the act of relaying something
bilgewater;pretentious or silly talk or writing
extinction;the act of extinguishing. causing to stop burning. 'the extinction of the lights'
blather;foolish gibberish
hyperpyrexia;extremely high fever
pennilessness;a state of lacking money
wrath;belligerence aroused by a real or supposed wrong (personified as one of the deadly sins)
obloquy;a malicious attack
resumption;beginning again
fakery;the act of faking (or the product of faking)
blue joke;an indelicate joke
animal disease;a disease that typically does not affect human beings
plaudit;enthusiastic approval. 'the book met with modest acclaim'. 'he acknowledged the plaudits of the crowd'. 'they gave him more eclat than he really deserved'
equilibrium;a stable situation in which forces cancel one another
drenching;the act of making something completely wet
dilation;the act of expanding an aperture. 'the dilation of the pupil of the eye'
stroke;a single complete movement
mastoiditis;inflammation of the mastoid
geographic expedition;to travel for the purpose of discovery
so long;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
shell shock;a mental disorder caused by stress of active warfare
compliments;(usually plural) a polite expression of desire for someone's welfare. 'give him my kind regards'. 'my best wishes'
about face;act of pivoting 180 degrees, especially in a military formation
cheek;an impudent statement
siderosis;fibrosis of the lung caused by iron dust. occurs among welders and other metal workers
nonsense verse;nonsensical writing (usually verse)
glomerulonephritis;nephritis marked by inflammation of the glomerulus of the kidney. characterized by decreased production of urine and by the presence of blood and protein in the urine and by edema
grant;a contract granting the right to operate a subsidiary business: 'he got the beer concession at the ball park'
reward;the offer of money for helping to find a criminal or for returning lost property
ametropia;(ophthalmology) faulty refraction of light rays in the eye as in astigmatism or myopia
renewal;the conversion of waste land into land suitable for use of habitation or cultivation
jutting;the act of projecting out from something
lead colic;symptom of chronic lead poisoning and associated with obstinate constipation
dog paddle;an elementary swimming stroke imitating a swimming dog
deforestation;the removal of trees
clutter;a confused multitude of things
closedown;termination of operations
card;a record of scores (as in golf). 'you have to turn in your card to get a handicap'
sky diving;performing acrobatics in free fall before pulling the ripcord of a parachute
cerebral aneurysm;an aneurysm of the carotid artery
transition;the act of passing from one stage to the next
disease;chronic periodontitis. purulent inflammation of the teeth sockets
lemma;a subsidiary proposition that is assumed to be true in order to prove another proposition
proteinuria;the presence of excessive protein (chiefly albumin but also globulin) in the urine. usually a symptom of kidney disorder
cyrillic;an alphabet drived from the greek alphabet and used for writing slavic language
defusing;the act of deactivating or making ineffective (as a bomb)
blast;intense adverse criticism. 'clinton directed his fire at jesse helms'
occupation;the act of taking occupancy
disorganization;a condition in which an orderly system has been disrupted
magnification;making to seem more important than it really is
simulation;the act of pretending
fasciculation;muscular twitching of contiguous groups of muscle fibers
emphysema;an abnormal condition of the lungs marked by decreased respiratory function. associated with smoking or chronic bronchitis or old age
tone;the general atmosphere of a place or situation. 'the feel of the city excited him'. 'a clergyman improved the tone of the meeting'. 'it had the smell of treason'
vd;a communicable disease transmitted by sexual intercourse or genital contact
exegesis;an explanation or critical interpretation (especially of the bible)
rules of order;a body of rules followed by an assembly
auf wiedersehen;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
drowsiness;a very sleepy state. 'sleepiness causes many driving accidents'
stagnation;a state of inactivity (in business or art etc). 'economic growth of less than 1% per year is considered to be economic stagnation'
guide;a model or standard for making comparisons
leukemia;malignant neoplasm of blood-forming tissues. characterized by abnormal proliferation of leukocytes. one of the four major types of cancer
weather conditions;"the condition of the weather"
modernizing;making modern in appearance of behavior. 'the modernizing of nigeria will be a long process'
outpouring;a large flow
destination;written directions for finding some location. written on letters or packages that are to be delivered to that location
takedown;(informal) a crushing remark
falsification;a willful act of falsifying
blasphemy;blasphemous language (expressing disrespect for god or for something sacred)
materialism;a desire for wealth and material possessions with little interest in ethical or spiritual matters
tone ending;(music) the act or manner of terminating a musical phrase or tone
recess;a pause from doing something (as work). 'we took a 10-minute break'. 'he took time out to recuperate'
unemployment;"the state of being unemployed or not having a job: 'unemployment is a serious social evil'. 'the rate of unemployment is an indicator of the health of an economy'"
hemoglobinopathy;a blood disease characterized by the presence of abnormal hemoglobins in the blood
symphysis;an abnormal adhesion of two or more structures
interposition;an action or remark that interrupts
brutalisation;an act that makes people cruel or lacking normal human qualities
deriving;(historical linguistics) an explanation of the historical origins of a word or phrase
net ball;a serve that strikes the net before falling into the receiver's court. the ball must be served again
scream;a joke that seems extremely funny
linebacker blitzing;(football) defensive players try to break through the offensive line
business deduction;tax deduction for expenses of doing business
torpidity;a state of motor and mental inactivity with a partial suspension of sensibility. 'he fell into a deep torpor'
passport;any authorization to pass or go somewhere. 'the pass to visit had a strict time limit'
inherited disease;a disease or disorder that is inherited genetically
food poisoning;illness caused by poisonous or contaminated food
trap block;(football) an illegal block
contradiction;(in logic) a statement that is necessarily false. 'the statement 'he is brave and he is not brave' is a contradiction'
arteritis;inflammation of an artery
conduction anesthesia;anesthesia of an area supplied by a nerve. produced by an anesthetic agent applied to the nerve
misfortune;an unfortunate state resulting from unfavorable outcomes
mopping;cleaning with a mop
t.b.;infection by the tubercle bacillus manifesting itself in lesions of various parts of the body (especially the lungs and bones)
creation;starting something for the first time
colonization;the act of colonizing
parkinson s law;c. northcote parkinson's cynical observation that work will expand so as to fill the time available for its completion
fourteenth amendment;an amendment to the constitution of the united states adopted in 1868. extends the guarantees of the bill of rights to the states as well as to the federal government
first step;the first of a series of actions. 'he memorized all the important chess openings'
flaccid paralysis;weakness or loss of muscle tone resulting from injury or disease of the nerves innervating the muscles
push down stack;a list in which the next item to be removed is the item most recently stored (lifo)
umbrella;having the function of uniting a group of similar things. 'the democratic party is an umbrella for many liberal groups'. 'under the umbrella of capitalism'
flexion;the act of bending something
spasm;a painful and involuntary muscular contraction
solicitation;request for a sum of money (as in church)
sciatica;neuralgia along the sciatic nerve
twig blight;a disease of the ends of twigs of woody plants
simplification;elimination of superfluous details
black disease;a disease of the liver (especially in sheep and cattle) caused by liver flukes and their by-products
connection;the state of being connected. 'the connection between church and state is inescapable'
lawlessness;a state of lawlessness and disorder (usually resulting from a failure of government)
rottenness;in a state of progressive putrefaction
bon mot;a clever remark
leukaemia;malignant neoplasm of blood-forming tissues. characterized by abnormal proliferation of leukocytes. one of the four major types of cancer
inversion;the act of turning inside out
gumma;a small rubbery granuloma that is characteristic of an advanced stage of syphilis
floater;an insurance policy covering loss of movable property (e.g. jewelry) regardless of its location
quiver;the act of vibrating
spider nevus;a dilation of superficial capillaries with a central red dot from which blood vessels radiate
metamorphosis;a striking change in appearance or character or circumstances: 'the metamorphosis of the old house into something new and exciting'
doctor of osteopathy;doctor's degree in osteopathy
lockout;a management action resisting employee's demands. employees are barred from entering the workplace until they agree to terms
batting order;(baseball) a list of batters in the order in which they will bat. 'the managers presented their cards to the umpire at home plate'
thirst;a physiological need to drink
lurch;an unsteady uneven gait
gash;a strong sweeping cut made with a sharp instrument
circuit;an extended journey
marriage contract;a prenuptial agreement or contract
doctor of arts;an honorary arts degree
decompression sickness;pain resulting from rapid change in pressure
fib;a trivial lie. 'he told a fib about eating his spinach'. 'how can i stop my child from telling stories?'
sally;witty remark
hullabaloo;disturbance usually in protest
desolation;the state of being decayed or destroyed
leak;soft watery rot in fruits and vegetables caused by fungi
branching;the act of branching out or dividing into branches
recognition;the state or quality of being recognized or acknowledged
farsightedness;abnormal condition in which vision for distant objects is better than for near objects
guillotine;closure imposed on the debate of specific sections of a bill
megacardia;an abnormal enlargement of the heart. mild cardiomegaly is common in athletes
deflection;a turning aside (of your course or attention or concern): 'a diversion from the main highway'. 'a digression into irrelevant details'. 'a deflection from his goal'
example;punishment intended as a warning to others. 'they decided to make an example of him'
landing approach;the approach to a landing field by an airplane
race murder;systematic killing of a racial or cultural group
rest;freedom from activity (work or strain or responsibility). 'took his repose by the swimming pool'
formatting;the organization of information according to preset specifications (usually for computer processing)
goose step;a manner of marching with legs straight and swinging high
inventory clearance sale;a sale to reduce inventory
contract of adhesion;a contract that heavily restricts one party while leaving the other free (as some standard form printed contracts). implies inequality in bargaining power
bump;a lump on the body caused by a blow
anorchia;absence of one of both testes
temporary state;"a state that continues for a limited time"
blurb;a promotional statement (as found on the dust jackets of books)
wheeze;a humorous anecdote or remark
adipose tumor;a tumor consisting of fatty tissue
blood cyst;a cyst containing blood
credit;approval. 'give her recognition for trying'. 'he was given credit for his work'. 'it is to her credit that she tried'. 'the credits were given at the end of the film'
deeds;"performance of moral or religious acts. 'salvation by deeds' or 'the reward for good works'"
ceding;the act of ceding
unfavorable judgment;disapproval expressed by pointing out faults or shortcomings. 'the senator received severe criticism from his opponent'
condemnation;an expression of strong disapproval. pronouncing as wrong or morally culpable. 'his uncompromising condemnation of racism'
headshaking;the act of turning your head left and right to signify denial or disbelief or bemusement. 'i could tell from their headshakes that they didn't believe me'
escalade;an act of scaling the walls of a fortification
ballyhoo;blatant or sensational promotion
patronage;a communication that indicates lack of respect by patronizing the recipient
dupery;deliberate trickery intended to gain an advantage
word picture;a graphic or vivid verbal description. 'too often the narrative was interrupted by long word pictures'. 'the author gives a depressing picture of life in poland'
poke check;knocking the puck away by jabbing at it with the hockey stick
microcephaly;an abnormally small head and underdeveloped brain
proposal of marriage;an offer of marriage
encephalitis;inflammation of the brain usually caused by a virus. symptoms include headache and neck pain and drowsiness and nausea and fever
wen;a common cyst of the skin. filled with fatty matter (sebum) that is secreted by a sebaceous gland that has been blocked
portrait;a word picture of a person's appearance and character
hyperadrenalism;a glandular disorder caused by excessive acth resulting in greater than normal functioning of the adrenal gland. characterized by obesity
order;a body of rules followed by an assembly
soreness;a pain that is felt when the area is touched
physical rehabilitation;providing help for disabled persons. the removal or reduction of disabilities
mercury poisoning;a toxic condition caused by ingesting or inhaling mercury
hint;an indirect suggestion. 'not a breath of scandal ever touched her'
bunco;a swindle in which you cheat at gambling or persuade a person to buy worthless property
leprosy;chronic granulomatous communicable disease occurring in tropical and subtropical regions
admonition;cautionary advice
http;a protocol (utilizing tcp) to transfer hypertext requests and information between servers and browsers
phonetic alphabet;an alphabet of characters intended to represent specific sounds of speech
interruption;an act of delaying or interrupting the continuity. 'it was presented without commercial breaks'
thanatophobia;a morbid fear of death
sustainment;the act of sustaining
card catalog;an enumeration of all the resources of a library
distributive shock;shock caused by poor distribution of the blood flow
slash;a strong sweeping cut made with a sharp instrument
thereness;the state of being there--not here--in position
color blindness;genetic inability to distinguish differences in hue
hypogammaglobulinemia;an abnormally low concentration of gamma globulin in the blood and increased risk of infection
blitt;a bachelor's degree in literature
complaint;an often persistent bodily disorder or disease. a cause for complaining
interference;"the act of hindering or obstructing or impeding"
ureterorenal reflux;a backflow of urine from the ureter into the renal pelvis
commixture;the act of mixing. 'paste made by a mixture of flour and water'
countenance;formal and explicit approval
trick;an attempt to get you to do something foolish or imprudent. 'that offer was a dirty trick'
head;the subject matter at issue. 'the question of disease merits serious discussion'. 'under the head of minor roman poets'
clip;the act of clipping or snipping
confirmation;making something valid by formally ratifying or confirming it. 'the ratification of the treaty'. 'confirmation of the appointment'
trip;an unintentional but embarrassing blunder. 'he recited the whole poem without a single trip'. 'confusion caused his unfortunate misstep'
chaos;a state of extreme confusion and disorder
situation;"the general state of things. the combination of circumstances at a given time. 'the present international situation is dangerous'. 'wondered how such a state of affairs had come about'. 'eternal truths will be neither true nor eternal unless they have fresh meaning for every new social situation'- franklin d.roosevelt"
bipolar disorder;a mental disorder characterized by episodes of mania and depression
consequence;"a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon. 'the magnetic effect was greater when the rod was lengthwise'. 'his decision had depressing consequences for business'"
amphigory;nonsensical writing (usually verse)
boiling;cooking in a boiling liquid
allurement;attractiveness. 'its allure was its remoteness'
blush;a rosy color (especially in the cheeks) taken as a sign of good health
disapproval;the expression of disapproval
dystopia;"state in which the condition of life is extremely bad as from deprivation or oppression or terror"
horizontal integration;absorption into a single firm of several firms involved in the same level of production and sharing resources at that level
tb;infection by the tubercle bacillus manifesting itself in lesions of various parts of the body (especially the lungs and bones)
chorditis;inflammation of the spermatic cord
scours;diarrhea in livestock
soilure;the act of soiling something
ko;a blow that renders the opponent unconscious
coattails;(politics) the consequence of one popular candidate in an election drawing votes for other members of the same party. 'he was elected senator on the president's coattails'
malabsorption syndrome;a pattern of symptoms including loss of appetite and bloating and weight loss and muscle pain and steatorrhea. associated with celiac disease and sprue and cystic fibrosis
moniliasis;an infection caused by fungi of the genus monilia or candida (especially candida albicans)
opening;the act of opening something. 'the ray of light revealed his cautious opening of the door'
saddle sore;an open sore on the back of a horse caused by ill-fitting or badly adjusted saddle
wasting;a decrease in size of an organ caused by disease or disuse
frustrating;an act of hindering someone's plans or efforts
riding;riding a horse as a means of transportation
high level formatting;(computer science) the format for the root directory and the file allocation tables and other basic configurations
homestead law;a law conferring privileges on owners of homesteads
campaign;an overland journey by hunters (especially in africa)
mammon;wealth regarded as an evil influence
shelter;a way of organizing business to reduce the taxes it must pay
bawling out;a severe scolding
commission;the act of committing a crime
ptsd;an anxiety disorder associated with serious traumatic events and characterized by such symptoms as guilt about surviving or reliving the trauma in dreams or numbness and lack of involvement with reality or recurrent thoughts and images
deficiency disease;any disease caused by a lack of an essential nutrient (as a vitamin or mineral)
primitiveness;a natural or unrefined state
epidemic parotitis;an acute contagious viral disease characterized by fever and by swelling of the parotid glands
circumnavigation;traveling around something (by ship or plane). 'magellan's circumnavigation of the earth proved that it is a globe'
smash;a hard return hitting the tennis ball above your head
abetalipoproteinemia;a rare inherited disorder of fat metabolism. characterized by severe deficiency of beta-lipoproteins and abnormal red blood cells (acanthocytes) and abnormally low cholesterol levels
bake;cooking (bread) by dry heat in an oven
autosomal recessive disease;a disease caused by the presence of two recessive mutant genes on an autosome
triskaidekaphobia;a morbid fear of the number 13
feel;the general atmosphere of a place or situation. 'the feel of the city excited him'. 'a clergyman improved the tone of the meeting'. 'it had the smell of treason'
time out;a pause from doing something (as work). 'we took a 10-minute break'. 'he took time out to recuperate'
gibberish;unintelligible talking
eternal rest;euphemisms for death (based on an analogy between lying in a bed and in a tomb). 'she was laid to rest beside her husband'. 'they had to put their family pet to sleep'
colour bar;barrier preventing blacks from participating in various activities with whites
benign tumor;a tumor that is not cancerous
scramble;rushing about hastily in an undignified way
chasse;(ballet) quick gliding steps with one foot always leading
rushing;the act of moving hurriedly and in a careless manner. 'in his haste to leave he forgot his book'
vitriol;the expression of bitter deep-seated ill will. rancor
carcinoid;a small tumor (benign or malignant) arising from the mucosa of the gastrointestinal tract. usually associated with excessive secretion of serotonin
public security;the general security of public places. 'he was arrested for disturbing the peace'
sound pollution;annoying and potentially harmful environmental noise
fowl pest;an acute viral disease of domestic fowl. characterized by refusal to each and high temperature and discoloration of the comb
coccidiomycosis;an infection of the lungs and skin characterized by excessive sputum and nodules
tension headache;a headache located at the back of the head. usually caused by body tension resulting from overwork or psychological stress
pub crawl;a tour of bars or public houses (usually taking one drink at each stop)
how d ye do;an awkward situation. 'that's a fine how-d'ye-do'
averageness;the state of being average. indicates normality but with connotations of mediocrity
insolvency;lacking financial resources
fruit of the poisonous tree;a rule that once primary evidence is determined to have been illegally obtained any secondary evidence following from it may also not be used
cardiac murmur;an abnormal sound of the heart. sometimes a sign of abnormal heart function
pass;any authorization to pass or go somewhere. 'the pass to visit had a strict time limit'
astigmatism;(ophthalmology) impaired eyesight resulting usually from irregular conformation of the cornea
stirring;arousing to a particular emotion or action
character set;an ordered list of characters that are used together in writing or printing
ace;a serve that the receiver is unable to reach
harlotry;offering sexual intercourse for pay
cliche;a trite or obvious remark
pack riding;riding with a pack
master of library science;a ,aster's degree in library science
dodge;a statement that evades the question by cleverness or trickery
aphonia;a disorder of the vocal organs that results in the loss of voice
interconnectedness;a state of being connected reciprocally
efflorescence;any eruption of the skin
initiative;the first of a series of actions. 'he memorized all the important chess openings'
displacement;act of taking the place of another especially using underhanded tactics
simple absence;petit mal seizure without other complications. followed by 3-per-sec brain-wave spikes
jugglery;artful trickery designed to achieve an end. 'the senator's tax program was mere jugglery'
hanky panky;verbal misrepresentation intended to take advantage of you in some way
bee sting;a sting inflicted by a bee
insisting;continual and persistent demands
bid;a proposal to buy at a specified price
lumpy jaw;the commonest and least severe form of actinomycosis. affects the face and neck regions
jibe;an aggressive remark directed at a person like a missile and intended to have a telling effect. 'his parting shot was 'drop dead''. 'she threw shafts of sarcasm'. 'she takes a dig at me every chance she gets'
ill being;lack of prosperity or happiness or health
dictionary definition;a definition that reports the standard uses of a word or phrase or symbol
denotatum;a actual object referred to by a linguistic expression
breach of warranty;a breach that occurs when an item is deficient according to the terms of a warranty
patching;the act of mending a hole in a garment by sewing a patch over it
renunciation;the state of having rejected your religious beliefs
stuff;senseless talk. 'don't give me that stuff'
destruction;"a final state. 'he came to a bad end'. 'the so-called glorious experiment came to an inglorious end'"
bloodshed;the shedding of blood resulting in murder. 'he avenged the blood of his kinsmen'
hydrocephalus;an abnormal condition in which cerebrospinal fluid collects in the ventricles of the brain. in infants it can cause abnormally rapid growth of the head and bulging fontanelles and a small face. in adults the symptoms are primarily neurological
two handed backhand;a backhand shot made holding the racquet in both hands
order paper;a printed copy of the order of the day
chastisement;a rebuke for making a mistake
counteroffer;an offer made by someone who has rejected a prior offer
gaucher s disease;a rare chronic disorder of lipid metabolism probably of genetic origin
junket;a journey taken for pleasure. 'many summer excursions to the shore'. 'it was merely a pleasure trip'. 'after cautious sashays into the field'
deafness;partial or complete loss of hearing
betterment;the act of relieving ills and changing for the better
plant disease;a disease that affects plants
neutralisation;action intended to keep a country politically neutral or exclude it from a possible war. 'the neutralization of belgium'
lordosis;an abnormal inward (forward) curvature of the vertebral column
cleft foot;a deformity in which the space between the third and fourth toes extends up into the foot
passion;something that is desired intensely. 'his rage for fame destroyed him'
wind;an indication of potential opportunity. 'he got a tip on the stock market'. 'a good lead for a job'
brain fag;exhaustion that affects mental keenness
welter;a confused multitude of things
expression;a group of symbols that make a mathematical statement
layoff;the act of laying off an employee or a work force
cancellation;the act of revoking or annulling or making void
hypochromic anemia;anemia characterized by a decrease in the concentration of corpuscular hemoglobin
palpitation;a rapid and irregular heart beat
standoff;the situation in a contest in which the winner is undecided at the end. 'the game ended in a draw'. 'their record was 3 wins, 6 losses and a tie'
play;the act of playing for stakes in the hope of winning (including the payment of a price for a chance to win a prize). 'his gambling cost him a fortune'. 'there was heavy play at the blackjack table'
lynchpin;a central cohesive source of support and stability: 'faith is his anchor'. 'he is the linchpin of this firm'
entopic pregnancy;pregnancy resulting from normal gestation in the uterus
sprint;a quick run
celioma;an abdominal tumor
ruination;destruction achieved by wrecking something
instance;a single item of information that is representative of a type. 'this patient provides a typical example of the syndrome'. 'there is a good example on page 10'
pulverization;annihilation by pulverizing something
degenerative arthritis;chronic breakdown of cartilage in the joints occurring usually after middle age
sickle cell disease;a congenital form of anemia occurring mostly in blacks. characterized by abnormal blood cells having a crescent shape
shifting;the act of moving from one place to another
prolapse;the slipping or falling out of place of an organ (as the uterus)
boo boo;an embarrassing mistake
price cut;cutting the price of merchandise to one lower than the usual or advertised price
trespass;entry to another's property without right or permission
crap game;a gambling game using two dice
suffering;misery resulting from affliction
lupus vulgaris;tuberculosis of the skin. appears first on the face and heals slowly leaving deep scars
plea;(law) a defendant's answer by a factual matter (as distinguished from a demurrer)
dieback;a disease of plants characterized by the gradula dying of the young shoots starting at the tips and progressing to the larger branches
menorrhagia;abnormally heavy or prolonged menstruation. can be a symptom of uterine tumors and can lead to anemia if prolonged
destitution;a state without friends or money or prospects
anorgasmia;absence of an orgasm in sexual relations
calcification;tissue hardened by deposition of lime salts
stockpiling;accumulating and storing a reserve supply: 'the stockpiling of war materials'
wrench;a sharp strain on muscles or ligaments. 'the wrench to his knee occurred as he fell'. 'he was sidelined with a hamstring pull'
thrash;a swimming kick used while treading water
macrencephaly;an abnormally large braincase
neutralization;action intended to nullify the effects of some previous action
home;an environment offering affection and security. 'home is where the heart is'. 'he grew up in a good christian home'. 'there's no place like home'
entry;a message submitted in a competition
sight gag;a joke whose effect is achieved by visual means rather than by speech (as in a movie)
drollery;a comic incident or series of incidents
covenant;(bible) an agreement between god and his people in which god makes certain promises and requires certain behavior from them in return
hitch;the state of inactivity following an interruption. 'the negotiations were in arrest'. 'held them in check'. 'during the halt he got some lunch'. 'he spent the entire stay in his room'
onward motion;the act of moving forward toward a goal
deformity;an affliction in which some part of the body is misshapen or malformed
eye infection;an infection of the sebaceous gland of the eyelid
provocation;needed encouragement. 'the result was a provocation of vigorous investigation'
parrot fever;infectious disease of birds
mussiness;a state of confusion and disorderliness. 'the house was a mess'. 'she smoothed the mussiness of the bed'
control;"the state that exists when one person or group has power over another. 'her apparent dominance of her husband was really her attempt to make him pay attention to her'"
worsening;changing something with the result that it becomes worse
cotton ball;a fungus disease of cranberries
gout;a painful inflammation of the big toe and foot caused by defects in uric acid metabolism resulting in deposits of the acid and its salts in the blood and joints
pox;a common venereal disease caused by the treponema pallidum spirochete. symptoms change through progressive stages. can be congenital (transmitted through the placenta)
larceny;the act of stealing. 'the thieving is awful at kennedy international'
atopognosis;absence or loss of topognosia. inability to locate correctly a point of touch
clapping;a demonstration of approval by clapping the hands together
resisting arrest;physical efforts to oppose a lawful arrest. the resistance is classified as assault and battery upon the person of the police officer attempting to make the arrest
connivance;(law) tacit approval of someone's wrongdoing
reunification;the act of coming together again
jungle rot;induced by a tropical climate
aloha;an acknowledgment that can be used to say hello or goodbye (aloha is hawaiian. ciao is italian)
sightlessness;lack of sight
biquadratic equation;and equation of the fourth degree
bronze star;a us military decoration awarded for meritorious service (except in aerial flight)
mfa;a master's degree in fine arts
awakening;the act of waking. 'it was a rude awakening'. 'it was the waking up he hated most'
rent;the act of rending or ripping or splitting something. 'he gave the envelope a vigorous rip'
excuse;a defense of some offensive behavior or some failure to keep a promise etc.. 'he kept finding excuses to stay'. 'every day he had a new alibi for not getting a job'. 'his transparent self-justification was unacceptable'
relief;the act of reducing something unpleasant as pain. 'he asked the nurse for relief from the constant pain'
vincent s infection;an acute communicable infection of the respiratory tract and mouth marked by ulceration of the mucous membrane
stillbirth;a natural loss of the products of conception
ubiquitousness;the state of being everywhere at once (or seeming to be everywhere at once)
ablactation;the act of substituting other food for the mother's milk in the diet of a child or young mammal
flux;in constant change: 'his opinions are in flux'
overcall;(bridge) a bid that is higher than your opponent's bid (especially when your partner has not bid at all and your bid exceeds the value of your hand)
bill;an advertisement (usually printed on a page or in a leaflet) intended for wide distribution. 'he mailed the circular to all subscribers'
crown of thorns;any affliction that causes great suffering. 'that is his cross to bear'. 'he bears his afflictions like a crown of thorns'
counteraction;action intended to nullify the effects of some previous action
smarm;excessive but superficial compliments given with affected charm
appendicitis;inflammation of the vermiform appendix
fact;an event known to have happened or something known to have existed. 'your fears have no basis in fact'. 'how much of the story is fact and how much fiction is hard to tell'
wakefulness;a temporary state in which you are unable (or unwilling) to sleep
a la carte;a menu having individual dishes listed with separate prices
frazzle;(informal) a state of extreme exhaustion. 'he was worn to a frazzle'
apraxia;inability to make purposeful movements
seal of approval;an indication of approved or superior status
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura;purpura of unknown origin associated with a reduction in circulating blood platelets
pauperism;a state of extreme poverty or destitution. 'their indigence appalled him'. 'a general state of need exists among the homeless'
opportunistic infection;any infection caused by a microorganism that does not normally cause disease in humans. occurs in persons with abnormally functioning immune systems (as aids patients or transplant patients receiving immunosuppressive drugs)
retirement;withdrawal from your position or occupation
over crowding;excessive crowding. 'traffic congestion'
green blindness;inability to distinguish green and purplish-red
promotion;the advancement of some enterprise. 'his experience in marketing resulted in the forwarding of his career'
pyorrhea alveolaris;chronic periodontitis. purulent inflammation of the teeth sockets
phobic disorder;a general term for all phobias
mumbo jumbo;language that is unnecessarily difficult to understand
halt;an interruption or temporary suspension of progress or movement: 'a halt in the arms race'. 'a nuclear freeze'
overbid;a bid that is higher than preceding bids
stridor;a whistling sound when breathing (usually heard on inspiration). indicates obstruction of the trachea or larynx
myocardial infarction;destruction of heart tissue resulting from obstruction of the blood supply to the heart muscle
obstruction;getting in someone's way
travelling;the act of going from one place to another. 'he enjoyed selling but he hated the travel'
continuing trespass;trespass that is not transient or intermittent but continues as long as the offending object remains. 'dumping his garbage on my land was a case of continuing trespass'
caper;a crime (especially a robbery). 'the gang pulled off a bank job in st. louis'
pneumocystis pneumonia;pneumonia occurring in persons with impaired immune systems (as aids victims)
reinforcing stimulus;(psychology) a stimulus that strengthens or weakens the behavior that produced it
farmer s lung;alveolitis caused by an allergic reaction to fungal spores in the dust that is inhaled from moldy hay
centralisation;consolidation of power under central control
independence;freedom from control or influence of another or others
alertness;a state of readiness to respond. 'alerting was indicated by the desynchronization of the eeg'
salmonellosis;a kind of food poisoning caused by eating foods contaminated with salmonella typhimurium
hullo;an expression of greeting. 'every morning they exchanged polite hellos'
discharge;a formal written statement of relinquishment
surrejoinder;a pleading by the plaintiff in reply to the defendant's rejoinder
brain tumor;a tumor in the brain
keratitis;inflammation of the cornea causing watery painful eyes and blurred vision
genesis;an event that is a beginning. a first part or stage of subsequent events
cooley s anemia;a fatal form of thalassemia in which there is no hemoglobin. skeletal deformations. heart and spleen and liver enlarged
dropkick;kicking (as for a field goal) in which the football is dropped and kicked as it touches the ground
cushing s syndrome;a glandular disorder caused by excessive cortisol
ostensive definition;a definition that points out or exhibits instances of the term defined
humbug;pretentious or silly talk or writing
executive clemency;the power (usually of a president or governor) to pardon or commute the sentence of someone convicted in that jurisdiction
parliamentary law;a body of rules followed by an assembly
retail price index;an index of changes in retail prices
reliance;the state of relying on something
confluence;a flowing together (as of rivers)
prototype;a standard or typical example. 'he is the prototype of good breeding'. 'he provided america with an image of the good father'
claustrophobia;a morbid fear of being closed in a confined space
power;"(of a government or government official) holding an office means being in power. 'being in office already gives a candidate a great advantage'. 'during his first year in power'"
artium baccalaurens;a bachelor's degree in arts and sciences
franchise;an authorization to sell a company's goods or services in a particular place
referent;something referred to. the object of a reference
liver rot;a disease of the liver (especially in sheep and cattle) caused by liver flukes and their by-products
welding;fastening two pieces of metal together by softening with heat and applying pressure
dirty joke;an indelicate joke
commotion;the act of making a noisy disturbance
double talk;deliberately unintelligible gibberish
pott s disease;tb of the spine with destruction of vertebrae resulting in curvature of the spine
non issue;"the state of something that has outlived its relevance"
licence;freedom to deviate deliberately from normally applicable rules or practices (especially in behavior or speech)
deviltry;reckless or malicious behavior that causes discomfort or annoyance in others
hitch;the uneven manner of walking that results from an injured leg
delight;something or someone that provides pleasure. a source of happiness. 'a joy to behold'. 'the pleasure of his company'. 'the new car is a delight'
inflammatory disease;a disease characterized by inflammation
attestation;written declaration made under oath
hemolytic anemia;anemia resulting from destruction of erythrocytes
crime;an evil act not necessarily punishable by law. 'crimes of the heart'
corrigendum;a printer's error. to be corrected
respects;(often used with 'pay') a formal expression of esteem. 'he paid his respects to the mayor'
case;the actual state of things. 'that was not the case'
escape mechanism;a form of behavior that evades unpleasant realities
blue story;an indelicate joke
wall;a difficult or awkward situation. 'his back was to the wall'. 'competition was pushing them to the wall'
comic strip;a sequence of drawings in a newspaper telling a story
pneumonitis;inflammation of the lungs. caused by a virus or an allergic reaction
interfering;"the act of hindering or obstructing or impeding"
broiling;cooking by direct exposure to radiant heat (as over a fire or under a grill)
fetichism;sexual arousal resulting from handling a fetish (or a specific part of the body other than the sexual organs)
piece;an instance of some kind. 'it was a nice piece of work'. 'he had a bit of good luck'
foot rot;plant disease in which the stem or trunk rots at the base
consumption;the act of consuming something
discontinuation;the act of discontinuing
fade;a golf shot that curves to the right for a right-handed golfer
tracking;the pursuit (of a person or animal) by following tracks or marks they left behind
put on;deliberate trickery intended to gain an advantage
rachitis;childhood disease caused by deficiency of vitamin d and sunlight associated with impaired metabolism of calcium and phosphorus
greeting;(usually plural) an acknowledgment or expression of good will (especially on meeting)
aggrandizement;the act of increasing the wealth or prestige or power or scope of something
transplantation;the transportation of people (as a family or colony) to a new settlement (as after an upheaval of some kind)
bar;the act of preventing
juvenile delinquency;an antisocial misdeed in violation of the law by a minor
end;"a final state. 'he came to a bad end'. 'the so-called glorious experiment came to an inglorious end'"
service contract;a contract for maintenance services
sacrilege;blasphemous behavior
ordinance;an authoritative rule or law
disappointing;the act of disappointing someone
enlargement;an interpretation that provides additional information
cupid s disease;a communicable disease transmitted by sexual intercourse or genital contact
adenosis;a disorder of the glands of the body
recidivism;a failure to maintain a higher state
secret;something that should remain hidden from others (especially information that is not to be passed on). 'the combination to the safe was a secret'. 'he tried to keep his drinking a secret'
wealth;the state of being rich and affluent. having a plentiful supply of material goods and money: 'great wealth is not a sign of great intelligence'
anisometropia;difference in the refractive power of the two eyes
enteric fever;marked by intestinal inflammation and ulceration. caused by salmonella typhosa ingested with food or water
meningioma;a tumor arising in the meninges which surround the brain and spinal cord. usually slow growing and sometimes malignant
laceration;the act of lacerating
acroanaesthesia;loss of sensation in the extremities
scouting trip;an expedition undertaken to gain information
instauration;starting something for the first time
absence;epilepsy characterized by paroxysmal attacks of brief clouding of consciousness (a possible other abnormalities)
slacking;the evasion of work or duty
crowding;a situation in which people or things are crowded together. 'he didn't like the crowding on the beach'
hives;an itchy skin eruption characterized by weals with pale interiors and well-defined red margins. usually the result of an allergic response to insect bites or food or drugs
akinetic epilepsy;epilepsy characterized by akinesia
release;the act of terminating someone's employment
hypocrisy;an expression of agreement that is not supported by real conviction
ailment;an often persistent bodily disorder or disease. a cause for complaining
rem sleep;a recurring sleep state during which dreaming occurs. a state of rapid eye movements during sleep
strait;a bad or difficult situation or state of affairs
elephantiasis neuromatosa;hypertrophy of a limb
pronouncement;an authoritative declaration
handicap;something immaterial that interferes with or delays action or progress
need;a state of extreme poverty or destitution. 'their indigence appalled him'. 'a general state of need exists among the homeless'
amendment;the act of amending
intensification;action that makes something more intense
hand clapping;a demonstration of approval by clapping the hands together
character assassination;an attack intended to ruin someone's reputation
phorrhoea;chronic periodontitis. purulent inflammation of the teeth sockets
pulmonary emphysema;an abnormal condition of the lungs marked by decreased respiratory function. associated with smoking or chronic bronchitis or old age
bitter end;the final extremity (however unpleasant it may be). 'he was determined to fight to the bitter end'
tipsiness;a temporary state resulting from excessive consumption of alcohol
amaurosis;partial or total loss of sight without pathology of the eye. caused by disease of optic nerve or retina or brain
desperate straits;a state of extreme distress
decubitus ulcer;a chronic ulcer of the skin caused by prolonged pressure on it (as in bedridden patients)
pay cut;a act of reducing a salary
mare s nest;a confused multitude of things
nook and cranny;something remote. 'he explored every nook and cranny of science'
myoma;a tumor composed of muscle tissue
autonomy;immunity from arbitrary exercise of authority: political independence
quantisation;the act of dividing into quanta or expressing in terms of quantum theory
plunderage;a act of plundering (especially the embezzlement of goods on shipboard)
highjack;seizure of a vehicle in transit either to rob it or divert it to an alternate destination
anomic aphasia;inability to name objects or to recognize written or spoken names of objects
haverhill fever;the form of ratbite fever occurring in the united states
disseminated sclerosis;a chronic progressive nervous disorder involving loss of myelin sheath around certain nerve fibers
job application;an application for a job
hypoplastic anemia;anemia resulting from inadequately functioning bone marrow. can develop into aplastic anemia
acceleration;the act of accelerating. increasing the speed
turn;turning or twisting around (in place). 'with a quick twist of his head he surveyed the room'
charlatanism;the dishonesty of a charlatan
violation;the crime of forcing a woman to submit to sexual intercourse against her will
faux pas;a socially awkward or tactless act
euthanasia;the act of killing someone painlessly (especially someone suffering from an incurable illness)
multiple myeloma;myeloma that develops in several places at the same time
trachoma;a chronic contagious viral disease marked by inflammation of the conjunctiva and cornea of the eye and the formation of scar tissue
double crossing;an act of betrayal. 'he gave us the old double cross'. 'i could no longer tolerate his impudent double-crossing'
iron curtain;an impenetrable barrier to communication or information especially as imposed by rigid censorship and secrecy. used by winston churchill in 1946 to describe the demarcation between democratic and communist countries
peculation;the fraudulent appropriation of funds or property entrusted to your care but actually owned by someone else
law degree;degree conferred on someone who successfully completes law school
sailing;riding in a sailboat
spiritualisation;the act of making something spiritual. infusing it with spiritual content
correctional rehabilitation;providing penal custody or probation or parole for convicted offenders
cross eye;strabismus in which eyes turn inward toward the nose
rickettsial disease;caused by ticks or mites or body lice infected with rickettsia microorganisms
stomach ache;an ache localized in the stomach or abdominal region
drug addiction;an addiction to a drug (especially a narcotic drug)
suprainfection;a secondary infection caused by an opportunistic infection
cold;a mild viral infection involving the nose and respiratory passages (but not the lungs). 'will they never find a cure for the common cold?'
adenomyosis;the presence of endometrium elsewhere than in the lining of the uterus. causes premenstrual pain and dysmenorrhea
itch;a contagious skin infection caused by the itch mite (sarcoptes scaboi). characterized by persistent itching and skin irritation. 'he has a bad case of the itch'
ascension;the act of changing location in an upward direction
connection;shifting from one form of transportation to another. 'the plane was late and he missed his connection in atlanta'
conspiracy of silence;a conspiracy not to talk about some situation or event. 'there was a conspiracy of silence about police brutality'
erratum;a mistake in printed matter resulting from mechanical failures of some kind
inactivation;breaking up a military unit (by transfers or discharges)
annulment;a formal termination (of a relationship or a judicial proceeding etc)
reversion;a failure to maintain a higher state
hurry;the act of moving hurriedly and in a careless manner. 'in his haste to leave he forgot his book'
translation;the act of transforming. 'a photograph is a translation of a scene onto a two-dimensional surface'
surrebutter;a pleading by the plaintiff in reply to the defendant's rebutter
cataphasia;a speech disorder in which the same word is repeated several times in succession
hysterocatalepsy;hysteria with cataleptic symptoms
cloud;suspicion affecting your reputation. 'after that mistake he was under a cloud'
balance;a state of equilibrium
movement;a change of position that does not entail a change of location. 'the reflex movements of his eyebrows revealed his surprise'.
desecration;blasphemous behavior
squatting;the act of assuming or maintaining a squatting position
anomalousness;deviation from the normal or common order or form or rule
content;the state of being contented with your situation in life. 'he relaxed in sleepy contentedness'. 'they could read to their heart's content'
spacefaring;a voyage outside the earth's atmosphere
generalized epilepsy;epilepsy in which the attack involves loss of consciousness and tonic spasms of the musculature followed by generalized jerking
tinea corporis;fungal infection of nonhairy parts of the skin
trek;any long and difficult trip
tabes;wasting of the body during a chronic disease
boutonneuse fever;a disease (common in india and around the mediterranean area) caused by a rickettsia that is transmitted to humans by a reddish brown tick (ixodid) that lives on dogs and other mammals
access;the act of approaching or entering. 'he gained access to the builidng'
drain;emptying accomplished by draining
white sale;a sale of household linens
outburst;a sudden violent disturbance
ptomaine;illness caused by poisonous or contaminated food
crossword puzzle;a puzzle in which words corresponding to numbered clues are to be found and written in to squares in the puzzle
validation;the cognitive process of establishing a valid proof
folding;the act of folding. 'he gave the napkins a double fold'
metralgia;pain in the uterus
waggle;causing to move repeatedly from side to side
opposition;"the action of opposing something that you disapprove or disagree with. 'he encountered a general feeling of resistance from many citizens'. 'despite opposition from the newspapers he went ahead'"
gram method;a staining technique used to classify bacteria. those that retain the gentian violet are gram-positive and those that do not retain it are gram-negative
tap off;the act of starting a basketball game with a jump ball
skip;a mistake resulting from neglect
parole;a promise. 'he gave his word'
uveitis;inflammation of the uvea of the eye
associate in arts;an associate degree in arts
burn;damage inflicted by burning
independency;freedom from control or influence of another or others
takeout;(bridge) a bid that asks your partner to bid another suit
difficulty;"a situation or condition almost beyond one's ability to deal with and requiring great effort to bear or overcome: 'grappling with financial difficulties'"
financial condition;"the condition of finances"
rot;decay usually accompanied by an offensive odor
fix;informal terms for a difficult situation. 'he got into a terrible fix'. 'he made a muddle of his marriage'
misinterpretation;putting the wrong interpretation on. 'his misinterpretation of the question caused his error' or 'there was no mistaking her meaning'
arousal;a state of heightened physiological activity
sporting life;active interest in gambling on sports events
liberty;an act of undue intimacy
regard;(usually preceded by 'in') a detail or point. 'it differs in that respect'
cross;any affliction that causes great suffering. 'that is his cross to bear'. 'he bears his afflictions like a crown of thorns'
trail riding;riding along a roughly blazed path
splenic fever;a highly infectious animal disease (especially cattle and sheep). it can be transmitted to people
objurgation;rebuking a person harshly
fairy story;an interesting but highly implausible story. often told as an excuse
lesion;any break in the skin or an organ caused by violence or surgical incision
fatigue;temporary loss of strength and energy resulting from hard physical or mental work
predomination;the state of being predominant over others
graft;the practice of offering something (usually money) in order to gain an illicit advantage
strength;the condition of financial success. 'the strength of the company's stock in recent weeks'
cystocele;hernia in which the urinary bladder protrudes through the wall of the vagina. sometimes occurs after childbirth
prediction;a statement about the future
bowdlerisation;the deletion of all passages considered to be indecent
herpangia;a viral infection (usually in children) marked by sore throat and fever and papules in the mouth and throat and headache and abdominal pain. usually subsides in a short time
athetosis;a continuous succession of slow writing involuntary movements of the hands and feet and other body parts
censoring;deleting parts of publications or correspondence or theatrical performances
sneezing;a symptom consisting of the involuntary expulsion of air from the nose
pounding;the act of pounding (delivering repeated heavy blows). 'the sudden hammer of fists caught him off guard'. 'the pounding of feet on the hallway'
azymia;absence of an enzyme
black rot;a fungous disease causing darkening and decay of the leaves of fruits and vegetables
master of laws;an advanced law degree
psoriatic arthritis;a form of rheumatoid arthritis usually affecting fingers and toes and associated with psoriasis
elevation;the act of increasing the wealth or prestige or power or scope of something
possibility;capability of existing or happening or being true. 'there is a possibility that his sense of smell has been impaired'
model;"a representative form or pattern. 'i profited from his example'"
chip;a low running approach shot
stock split;an increase in the number of outstanding shares of a corporation without changing the shareholders' equity. 'they announced a two-for-one split of the common stock'
loss;the act of losing. 'everyone expected him to win so his loss was a shock'
tour;an extended journey
development;a state in which things are improving. the result of developing. 'after he saw the latest development he changed his mind and became a supporter'. 'in chess your should take care of your development before moving your queen'
undress;partial or complete nakedness. 'a state of undress'
gastritis;inflammation of the lining of the stomach. nausea and loss of appetite and discomfort after eating
shuteye;informal term for sleep
tempest;a violent commotion or disturbance. 'the storms that had characterized their relationship had died away'. 'it was only a tempest in a teapot'
tumult;the act of making a noisy disturbance
fecundity;the state of being fertile. capable of producing offspring
hitch;an unforeseen obstacle
variation;"an activity that varies from a norm or standard. 'any variation in his routine was immediately reported'"
jape;a humorous anecdote or remark
coryza;an inflammation of the mucous membrane lining the nose (usually associated with nasal discharge)
agenda;a list of matters to be taken up (as at a meeting)
report;a written document describing the findings of some individual or group. 'this accords with the recent study by hill and dale'
reinstatement;"the condition of being reinstated. 'her reinstatement to her former office followed quickly'"
wickedness;morally objectionable behavior
status epilepticus;a condition in which there are continuing attacks of epilepsy without intervals of consciousness. can lead to brain damage and death
marburg ebola disease;a viral disease of green monkeys. when transmitted to humans it causes serious or fatal illness
say;the chance to speak. 'let him have his say'
myocardial inflammation;inflammation of the myocardium (the muscular tissue of the heart)
carotenemia;excess carotene in the blood stream. can cause the skin to turn a pale yellow-red color
advance;a tentative suggestion designed to elicit the reactions of others. 'she rejected his advances'
erotism;a state of anticipation of sexuality
approval;a message expressing a favorable opinion. 'words of approval seldom passed his lips'
physical fitness;good physical condition. being in shape or in condition
salt i;the first treaty between the us and ussr resulting from the strategic arms limitation talks
transubstantiation;an act that changes the form or character or substance of something
fastbreak;(basketball) a rapid dash to get a shot as soon as possible after taking possession of the ball
block anesthesia;anesthesia of an area supplied by a nerve. produced by an anesthetic agent applied to the nerve
cruciality;a state of critical urgency
blain;an inflammatory swelling or sore
patricide;murder of your father
delirium;state of excitement and mental confusion often accompanied by hallucinations
ruin;the state of being decayed or destroyed
promulgation;a formal public statement. 'the government made an announcement about changes in the drug war'
complete fracture;break involving the entire width of the bone
smogginess;air pollution by a mixture of smoke and fog
effect;a symptom caused by an illness or a drug. 'the effects of sleep loss'. 'the effect of the anesthetic'
modus vivendi;a temporary accommodation of a disagreement between parties pending a permanent settlement
cyanide poisoning;poisoning due to ingesting or inhaling cyanide. common in smoke from fires and in industrial chemicals
demoralization;a state of disorder and confusion. 'his inconsistency resulted in the demoralization of his staff'
potato murrain;a blight of potatoes
spastic bladder;a bladder disorder resulting from spinal cord lesion or multiple sclerosis or trauma. absence of bladder sensation and incontinence and interrupted voiding of urine
nanism;a genetic abnormality resulting in short stature
achylia;absence of gastric juices (partial or complete)
diphtheria;marked by the formation of a false membrane in the throat and other air passages causing difficulty in breathing
right;a turn to the right. 'take a right at the corner'
chestnut bark disease;a disease of american chestnut trees
leg;(nautical) the distance traveled by a sailing vessel on a single tack
liberty;personal freedom from servitude or confinement or oppression
sweep;a movement in an arc. 'a sweep of his arm'
tailing;the act of following someone secretly
acute gastritis;gastritis caused by ingesting an irritant (as too much aspirin)
cicatrice;a mark left by the healing of injured tissue
overflow;a large flow
dream;someone of something wonderful. 'this dessert is a dream'
problem;a question raised for consideration or solution. 'our homework consisted of ten problems to solve'
career counseling;counseling on career opportunities
hyphenation;division of a word especially at the end of a line on a page
tinea;infections of the skin or nails caused by fungi and appearing as itching circular patches
matter;a problem. 'is anything the matter?'
advertisement;a public promotion of some product or service
heartrot;any plant disease in which the central part of a plant rots (especially in trees)
saddle block anaesthesia;the parts of a patient's body that would touch a saddle if the patient were sitting in one are anesthetized by injecting a local anesthetic into the spinal cord
arteriectasis;an abnormal distension of an artery
ascendency;"the state that exists when one person or group has power over another. 'her apparent dominance of her husband was really her attempt to make him pay attention to her'"
confusion;disorder resulting from a failure to behave predictably. 'the army retreated in confusion'
version;an interpretation of a matter from a particular viewpoint. 'his version of the fight was different from mine'
tacit consent;(law) tacit approval of someone's wrongdoing
flaccid bladder;a bladder disorder resulting from interruption of the reflex arc normally associated with voiding urine. absence of bladder sensation and over-filling of the bladder and inability to urinate voluntarily
handshaking;grasping and shaking a person's hand (as to acknowledge an introduction or to agree on a contract)
hemophilia;congenital tendency to uncontrolled bleeding. usually affects males and is transmitted from mother to son
sweetener;anything that serves as an enticement
degenerative joint disease;chronic breakdown of cartilage in the joints occurring usually after middle age
aftereffect;any result that follows its cause after an interval
conductive hearing loss;hearing loss due to problems with the bones of the middle ear
achromatic vision;genetic inability to distinguish differences in hue
psychoneurosis;a mental or personality disturbance not attributable to any known neurological or organic dysfunction
pride;unreasonable and inordinate self-esteem (personified as one of the deadly sins)
patent application;an application for sole rights to an invention
hesitation;the act of pausing uncertainly. 'there was a hesitation in his speech'
reproval;an expression of criticism and censure. 'he had to take the rebuke with a smile on his face'
fraud in the inducement;fraud which intentionally causes a person to execute and instrument or make an agreement or render a judgment. e.g., misleading someone about the true facts
therapeutic rehabilitation;providing help for disabled persons. the removal or reduction of disabilities
topical anesthesia;loss of sensation confined to the skin or mucous surfaces (as when benzocaine or lidocaine is applied to the surface)
discoloration;the act of discoloring something
scabies;a contagious skin infection caused by the itch mite (sarcoptes scaboi). characterized by persistent itching and skin irritation. 'he has a bad case of the itch'
service call;a trip made by a repairman to visit the location of something in need of service
amusd;a doctor's degree in musical arts
injection;the forceful insertion of a substance under pressure
unkemptness;untidiness in personal appearance
ill;a state of adversity (danger or affliction or need). 'in trouble with the police'. 'he wanted to cure the ills of all mankind'. 'she was the classic maiden in distress'
encounter;a casual meeting with a person of thing
hypovitaminosis;any of several diseases caused by deficiency of one or more vitamins
misreckoning;a mistake in calculating
original sin;a sin inherited by all descendants of adam. 'adam and even committed the original sin when they ate the forbidden fruit in the garden of eden'
dropsy;swelling from excessive accumulation of serous fluid in tissue
aids;a serious (often fatal) disease of the immune system transmitted through blood products especially by sexual contact or contaminated needles
well being;the state of being happy and healthy and prosperous. 'the town was finally on the upbeat after our recent troubles'
dilatation;the act of expanding an aperture. 'the dilation of the pupil of the eye'
anaplasia;loss of structural differentiation within a cell or group of cells often with increased capacity for multiplication, as in a malignant tumor
creation;(theology) god's act of bringing the universe into existence
aftermath;the consequences of an event (especially a catastrophic event). 'the aftermath of war'. 'in the wake of the accident no one knew how many had been injured'
thyrotoxicosis;pathologically excessive production of thyroid hormones. characterized by increased metabolism and exophthalmos
term;(usually plural) a statement of what is required as part of an agreement. 'the contract set out the conditons of the lease'. 'the terms of the treaty were generous'
explanation;a statement that explains. 'he launched into a detailed explanation'. 'he demanded that i give an account for my failure'
goodbye;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
sheriff s sale;a sale of property by the sheriff under authority of a court's judgment in order satisfy and unpaid obligation
slice;a wound made by cutting. 'he put a bandage over the cut'
veering;the act of turning aside suddenly
stress;a state of extreme difficulty: 'he presided over the economy during the period of the greatest stress and danger'- r.j.samuelson
original;an original model on which something is patterned
enigma;a difficult problem
repose;freedom from activity (work or strain or responsibility). 'took his repose by the swimming pool'
diabetes;any of several metabolic disorders marked by excessive urination and persistent thirst
raw wound;a wound that exposes subcutaneous tissue
acute lymphocytic leukemia;acute leukemia characterized by proliferation of immature lymphoblast-like cells in bone marrow, lymph nodes, spleen, and blood. most common in children
colour line;barrier preventing blacks from participating in various activities with whites
polymyositis;inflammation of many muscles
scleroderma;an autoimmune disease that affects the blood vessels and connective tissue
pericarditis;inflammation of the pericardium
pulmonary tuberculosis;involving the lungs with progressive wasting of the body
epiphenomenon;a secondary phenomenon that is a by-product of another phenomenon
pay claim;the wage demanded from management for workers by their union representatives
visual defect;impairment of the sense of sight
burden;the central meaning or theme of a speech or literary work
tomato yellows;a disease of tomato plants
moistening;making something slightly wet
rationalisation;(math) the simplification of an expression or equation by eliminating radicals without changing the value of the expression or the roots of the equation
annexation;incorporation by annexation
angiotelectasia;dilation and enlargement of arterioles
mail fraud;use of the mails to defraud someone
mottling;the act of coloring with areas of different shades
nicety;a subtle difference in meaning
cystoparalysis;paralysis of the urinary bladder
way;"the condition of things generally. 'that's the way it is' or 'i felt the same way'"
warp;a twist or aberration. especially a perverse or abnormal way of judging or acting
gait;a person's manner of walking
soiling;the act of soiling something
price index;an index that traces the relative changes in the price of an individual good (or a market basket of goods) over time
dependence;being abnormally dependent on something that is psychologically or physically habit-forming (especially alcohol or narcotic drugs)
daily double;a single bet on two horse races in the same day
frustration;an act of hindering someone's plans or efforts
lie in;(british) a long stay in bed in the morning
call;a demand for a show of hands in a card game. 'after two raises there was a call'
hemophilia b;a clotting disorder similar to hemophilia a but caused by a congenital deficiency of factor ix
depressive disorder;a state of depression and anhedonia so severe as to require clinical intervention
saint vitus dance;chorea occurring chiefly in children and associated with rheumatic fever
unipolar depression;a major depressive episode that occurs without the manic phase that occurs in the classic form of bipolar disorder
red blindness;inability to distinguish red and purplish blue
excitement;disturbance usually in protest
admonition;a firm rebuke
fatigue;a lack of vitality
connexion;shifting from one form of transportation to another. 'the plane was late and he missed his connection in atlanta'
betterment;an improvement that adds to the value of a property or facility
whitening;changing to a lighter color
malnourishment;not having enough food to develop or function formally
neuroticism;a mental or personality disturbance not attributable to any known neurological or organic dysfunction
annoyance;something or someone that causes trouble. a source of unhappiness. 'a bit of a bother'
streptococcus tonsilitis;an infection of the oral pharynx and tonsils by streptococcus
unlicensed gambling;unlicensed gambling is illegal in most jurisdictions
sidestep;a step to one side (as in boxing or dancing)
pasquinade;a composition that imitates somebody's style in a humorous way
suttee;the act of a hindu widow willingly cremating herself on the funeral pyre of her dead husband
anorchism;absence of one of both testes
overthrow;the act of disturbing the mind or body. 'his carelessness could have caused an ecological upset'. 'she was unprepared for this sudden overthrow of their normal way of living'
siriasis;sudden prostration due to exposure to the sun or excessive heat
sales promotion;promotion that supplements or coordinates advertising
obscenity;an obscene act
computer menu;(computer science) a list of options available to a computer user
confirmation;additional proof that something that was believed is true. 'fossils provided further confirmation of the evolutionary theory'
redness;a response of body tissues to injury or irritation. characterized by pain and swelling and redness and heat
cystitis;inflammation of the urinary bladder and ureters
lying under oath;criminal offense of making false statements under oath
shake;causing to move repeatedly from side to side
change of direction;the act of changing the direction in which something is oriented
breakaway;the act of breaking away or withdrawing from: 'there was a breakaway by the discontented members'. 'a breaking away from family and neighborhood'
soft rot;mushy or slimy decay of plants caused by bacteria or fungi
rain check;a ticket stub entitling the holder to admission to a future event if the scheduled event was cancelled due to rain
purging;an act of removing by cleansing. ridding of sediment or other other undesired elements
negligence;failure to act
belt;the act of hitting vigorously. 'he gave the table a whack'
torture;unbearable physical pain
med;a master's degree in education
packing;carrying something in a pack on the back. 'the backpacking of oxygen is essential for astronauts'
question;an informal reference to a marriage proposal. 'he was ready to pop the question'
catalepsy;a trancelike state with loss of voluntary motion and failure to react to stimuli
edema;swelling from excessive accumulation of serous fluid in tissue
positive reinforcer;a reinforcing stimulus that serves to increase the likelihood of the response that produces it
slumber;a natural and periodic state of rest during which consciousness of the world is suspended. 'he didn't get enough sleep last night'. 'calm as a child in dreamless slumber'
pregnancy;the state of being pregnant
requisiteness;the state of being absolutely required
grievance;an allegation that something imposes an illegal obligation or denies some legal right or causes injustice
approbation;official recognition or approval
guideline;guidance relative to setting standards or determining a course of action
coal miner s lung;lung disease caused by inhaling coal dust
rescript;a reply by a pope to an inquiry concerning a point of law or morality
paracervical block;regional anesthesia resulting from the injection of a local anesthetic on each side of the cervix. used during labor and childbirth
release;a formal written statement of relinquishment
brucellosis;an infectious disease often resulting in abortion. transmittable to humans through contaminated milk
amyotrophia;progressive wasting of muscle tissues
connexion;the act of bringing two things into contact
successfulness;the condition of prospering. having good fortune
crosscheck;an illegal check (chopping at an opponent's arms or stick)
defective pleading;any pleading that fails to conform in form or substance to minimum standards of accuracy or sufficiency
motion;"a state of change. 'they were in a state of steady motion'"
anguish;extreme distress of body or mind
signification;the message that is intended or expressed
scolding;rebuking a person harshly
schizothymia;resembling schizophrenia but remaining within the bounds of normality
rage;violent state of the elements: 'the sea hurled itself in thundering rage against the rocks'
zoophobia;a morbid fear of animals
deshabille;"the state of being carelessly or partially dressed"
lope;a slow pace of running
boil;a painful sore with a hard pus-filled core
omission;something that has been omitted. 'she searched the table for omissions'
trifling;the deliberate act of wasting time instead of working
hibernation;cessation from or slowing of activity during the winter. especially slowing of metabolism in some animals
maculation;the act of spotting or staining something
self reproach;the act of blaming yourself
pip;a disease of poultry
clincher;a point or fact or remark that settles something conclusively
liability;a financial condition of being indebted
round;an outburst of applause. 'there was a round of applause'
solo;a flight in which the aircraft pilot is unaccompanied
surprisal;the act of surprising someone
accrual;the act of accumulating
torpor;a state of motor and mental inactivity with a partial suspension of sensibility. 'he fell into a deep torpor'
environment;the totality of surrounding conditions. 'he longed for the comfortable environment of his livingroom'
paean;a formal expression of praise
drain;a gradual depletion. 'a drain on resources'
rebuttal;a pleading by the defendant in reply to a plaintiff's surrejoinder
opening;opportunity especially for employment or promotion. 'there is an opening in the sales department'
shagginess;unkemptness of hair
anaesthesia;loss of bodily sensation with or without loss of consciousness
criminal record;a list of crimes for which an accused person has been previously convicted. 'he ruled that the criminal record of the defendant could not be disclosed to the court'. 'the prostitute had a record a mile long'
installing;the act of installing something (as equipment). 'the telephone installation took only a few minutes'
approach;a relatively short golf shot intended to put the ball onto the putting green. 'he lost the hole when his approach rolled over the green'
hepatojugular reflux;a venous reflux occurring in congestive heart failure
gaffe;a socially awkward or tactless act
sleeping;quiet and inactive restfulness
privation;a state of extreme poverty
dehumanization;the act of degrading people with respect to their best qualities. 'science has been blamed for the dehumanization of modern life'
yellow pages;the part of a phonebook that lists business products and services along with classified advertising
blackwater fever;severe and often fatal malaria characterized by kidney damage resulting in dark urine
wind;a tendency or force that influences events. 'the winds of change'
distinguished conduct medal;a british military decoration for distinguished conduct in the field
inflaming;arousal to violent emotion
trip;a journey for some purpose (usually including the return). 'he took a trip to the shopping center'
meralgia;pain in the thigh
blood;the shedding of blood resulting in murder. 'he avenged the blood of his kinsmen'
disinheritance;the act by a donor that terminates the right of a person to inherit
shakedown;(slang) extortion of money (as by blackmail)
handclap;a clap of the hands to indicate approval
story;a short account of the news. 'the report of his speech'. 'the story was on the 11 o'clock news'. 'the account of his speech that was given on the evening news made the governor furious'
sty;an infection of the sebaceous gland of the eyelid
vertical combination;absorption into a single firm of several firms involved in all aspects of a product's manufacture from raw materials to distribution
cystoplegia;paralysis of the urinary bladder
organization;the act of forming something. 'the constitution of a pta group'. 'he still remembers the establishment of the hospital'
gaming;the act of playing for stakes in the hope of winning (including the payment of a price for a chance to win a prize). 'his gambling cost him a fortune'. 'there was heavy play at the blackjack table'
self justification;a defense of some offensive behavior or some failure to keep a promise etc.. 'he kept finding excuses to stay'. 'every day he had a new alibi for not getting a job'. 'his transparent self-justification was unacceptable'
microcephalus;an abnormally small head and underdeveloped brain
international logistic support;arrangements made between nations to assist each other
idleness;having no employment
reminder;a message that helps you remember something. 'he ignored his wife's reminders'
od;a doctor's degree in optometry
clubfoot;congenital deformity of the foot usually marked by a curled shape or twisted position of the ankle and heel and toes
progress;the act of moving forward toward a goal
perliche;a disorder of the lips marked by scaling and fissures at the corners of the mouth. caused by a deficiency of riboflavin
fixing;the act of putting something in working order again
annotation;a comment (usually added to a text). 'his notes were appended at the end of the article'
publicity;a message issued in behalf of some product or cause or institution
result;a statement that solves a problem or explains how to solve the problem. 'they were trying to find a peaceful solution'. 'the answers were in the back of the book'. 'he computed the result to four decimal places'
immodesty;the perverse act of exposing and attracting attention to your own genitals
microcytic anemia;anemia in which the average size of erythrocytes is smaller than normal
malnutrition;a state of poor nutrition. can result from insufficient or excessive or unbalanced diet or from inability to absorb foods
dereliction;willful negligence
acromegaly;enlargement of bones of hands and feet and face. often accompanied by headache and muscle pain and emotional disturbances. caused by overproduction of growth hormone by the anterior pituitary gland (due to a tumor)
jumble sale;a sale of donated articles
riggs;chronic periodontitis. purulent inflammation of the teeth sockets
bronchiolitis;inflammation of the membranes lining the bronchioles
postulation;a declaration of something self-evident. something that can be assumed as the basis for argument
cortical epilepsy;epilepsy in which the attack begins with an isolated disturbance of cerebral function
stuff;information in some unspecified form. 'it was stuff i had heard before'. 'there's good stuff in that book'
local option;freedom of a local government to determine by popular vote the applicability of a controversial law in their jurisdiction
commutation;the travel of a commuter
hypertrophy;abnormal enlargement of a body part or organ
elimination;the act of removing an unknown mathematical quantity by combining equations
jeering;showing your contempt by derision
liberalization;the act of making less strict
impacted fracture;fracture in which one broken end is wedged into the other broken end
misbehaviour;improper or wicked or immoral behavior
paralysis agitans;a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterized by tremor and impaired muscular coordination
endorsement;a promotional statement (as found on the dust jackets of books)
wigging;british slang for a scolding
card;(baseball) a list of batters in the order in which they will bat. 'the managers presented their cards to the umpire at home plate'
face lifting;a renovation that improves the outward appearance (as of a building)
unfitness;poor physical condition. being out of shape or out of condition
travesty;a composition that imitates somebody's style in a humorous way
relocation;the transportation of people (as a family or colony) to a new settlement (as after an upheaval of some kind)
depravity;a corrupt or depraved or degenerate act or practice: 'the various turpitudes of modern society'
imbalance;a state of disequilibrium
partial differential equation;a differential equation involving a functions of more than one variable
lameness;disability of walking due to crippling of the legs or feet
crepitation rale;the crackling sound heard on auscultation when patients with respiratory diseases inhale
word blindness;inability to perceive written words
inculpation;an accusation that you are responsible for some lapse or misdeed. 'his incrimination was based on my testimony'. 'the police laid the blame on on the driver'
sleep;pauses for seconds seconds.a torpid state resembling sleep
trap play;(football) a play in which a defensive player is allowed to cross the line of scrimmage and then blocked off as the runner goes through the place the lineman vacated
lodestar;something that serves as a model or guide
approach;a tentative suggestion designed to elicit the reactions of others. 'she rejected his advances'
chronic leukemia;slowly progressing leukemia
icterus neonatorum;yellowish appearance in newborn infants. usually subsides spontaneously
remembrance;a recognition of meritorious service
abls;a bachelor's degree in library science
proffer;a proposal offered for acceptance or rejection
arteriectasia;an abnormal distension of an artery
mucovioscidosis;a congenital disease in which the pancreas and lungs and intestines become clogged with mucus
acapnia;a state in which the level of carbon dioxide in the blood is lower than normal. can result from deep or rapid breathing
nonfeasance;a failure to act when under an obligation to do so. a refusal (without sufficient excuse) to do that which it is your legal duty to do
life;the condition of living or the state of being alive. 'while there's life there's hope'. 'life depends on many chemical and physical processes'
sprain;a painful injury to a joint caused by a sudden wrenching of its ligaments
oedema;swelling from excessive accumulation of serous fluid in tissue
onion yellow dwarf;the yellow dwarf disease of onion plants
good shape;good physical condition. being in shape or in condition
turmoil;disturbance usually in protest
lead;an indication of potential opportunity. 'he got a tip on the stock market'. 'a good lead for a job'
pernio;inflammation of the hands and feet caused by exposure to cold and moisture
spoilage;the act of spoiling
hyperbilirubinemia of the newborn;a common disorder that is usually due to immaturity of the liver. usually subsides spontaneously
redevelopment;the act of renovating
choking;the act of suffocating by constricting the windpipe. 'no evidence that the choking was done by the accused'
atopognosia;absence or loss of topognosia. inability to locate correctly a point of touch
urtication;an itchy skin eruption characterized by weals with pale interiors and well-defined red margins. usually the result of an allergic response to insect bites or food or drugs
interdepartmental support;provision of logistic (or administrative) support by one or more of the military services to one or more departments or agencies of the us government
postscript;a note appended to a letter after the signature
anasarca;generalized edema with accumulation of serum in subcutaneous connective tissue
press;the state of urgently demanding notice or attention. 'the press of business matters'
renovation;the act of renovating
founder;inflammation of the laminated tissue that attaches the hoof to the foot of a horse
debarring;legal prevention
concatenation;the state of being linked together as in a chain. union in a linked series
harakiri;(japan) ritual suicide by self-disembowlment on a sword
cryptorchidy;failure of one or both testes to move into the scrotum as the male fetus develops
stream;the act of flowing or streaming. continuous progression
contagious disease;any disease easily transmitted by contact
quintessence;"the most typical example or representative of a type"
longsightedness;abnormal condition in which vision for distant objects is better than for near objects
alteration;the act of transforming. 'it would require a drastic revision of his opinion'
incorporation;including by incorporation
concern;something or someone that causes anxiety. a source of unhappiness. 'new york traffic is a constant concern'. 'it's a major worry'
roundhouse;a hook delivered with an exaggerated swing
adhesion contract;a contract that heavily restricts one party while leaving the other free (as some standard form printed contracts). implies inequality in bargaining power
derangement;the act of disturbing the mind or body. 'his carelessness could have caused an ecological upset'. 'she was unprepared for this sudden overthrow of their normal way of living'
hydrophobia;an acute viral disease of the nervous system of warm-blooded animals (usually transmitted by the bite of a rabid animal)
vegetation;inactivity that is passive and monotonous
scrape;an abraded area where the skin is torn or worn off
assam fever;leishmaniasis of the viscera
racecard;a program for a race meeting. lists the races and the names of the horses
tommyrot;pretentious or silly talk or writing
acathexia;an inability to retain bodily secretions
wrongdoing;"activity that transgresses moral or civil law. 'he denied any wrongdoing'"
shambles;a condition of great disorder
lese majesty;a crime that undermines the offender's government
newspaper ad;a printed advertisement that is published in a newspaper
peril;a state of danger involving risk
cutting;the division of a deck of cards before dealing. 'his cutting the cards before every deal soon became a ritual'
tubal pregnancy;ectopic pregnancy in a fallopian tube
taphephobia;a morbid fear of being buried alive
idling;having no employment
traversal;taking a zigzag path on skis
angulation;the act of making angulate (having corners)
fowl cholera;an acute diarrheal disease (especially of chickens) caused by the microorganism that causes hemorrhagic septicemia
roasting;cooking (meat) by dry heat in an oven (usually with fat added)
reciprocation;alternating back-and-forth movement
sting;a painful wound caused by the thrust of a stinger into skin
bullshit;a ludicrously false statement
prescription;directions for achieving a therapeutic effect
asseveration;a declaration that is made as if no supporting evidence were necessary
abasia trepidans;abasia due to trembling of the legs
arthralgia;pain in a joint or joints
implication;a charge that implicates someone (usually of wrongdoing)
sore;an open skin infection
resistance;"the action of opposing something that you disapprove or disagree with. 'he encountered a general feeling of resistance from many citizens'. 'despite opposition from the newspapers he went ahead'"
gag;a humorous anecdote or remark
shaking;the act of causing something to move up and down (or back and forth) with quick movements
scot and lot;obligations of all kinds taken as a whole
self reliance;personal independence
satire;witty language used to convey insults or scorn. 'he used sarcasm to upset his opponent'. 'irony is wasted on the stupid'
prevarication;the deliberate act of deviating from the truth
leave;permission to do something. 'she was granted leave to speak'
look;the general atmosphere of a place or situation. 'the feel of the city excited him'. 'a clergyman improved the tone of the meeting'. 'it had the smell of treason'
doctor of education;a doctor's degree in education
regional anaesthesia;loss of sensation in a region of the body produced by application of an anesthetic agent to all the nerves supplying that region (as when an epidural anesthetic is administered to the pelvic region during childbirth)
cardiogenic shock;shock caused by cardiac arrest
misprint;a mistake in printed matter resulting from mechanical failures of some kind
hyperextension;greater than normal extension
carnival;a frenetic disorganized (and often comic) disturbance suggestive of a circus or carnival. 'it was so funny it was a circus'. 'the whole occasion had a carnival atmosphere'
adjunction;a act of adjoining things
halo blight;a blight affecting the leaves of oats and other grasses
bankruptcy;inability to discharge all ones debts as they come due
ded;a doctor's degree in education
name and address;written directions for finding some location. written on letters or packages that are to be delivered to that location
best evidence rule;a rule of evidence requiring that to prove the content of a writing or recording or photograph the original is required
stock warrant;a written certificate that gives the holder the right to purchase shares of a stock for a specified price within a specified period of time
olfactory impairment;impairment of the sense of smell (as by damage to olfactory nasal tissue or the olfactory nerve or by obstruction of the nasal passages)
housebreaking;trespassing for an unlawful purpose
herpes simplex;an infection caused by the herpes simples virus. affects the skin and nervous system. produces small temporary (but sometimes painful) blisters on the skin and mucous membranes
amalgamation;the combination of two or more commercial companies
catastrophe;a state of extreme (usually irremediable) ruin and misfortune. 'lack of funds has resulted in a catastrophe for our school system'. 'his policies were a disaster'
trimness;a state of arrangement or appearance: 'in good trim'
mousetrap;(football) a play in which a defensive player is allowed to cross the line of scrimmage and then blocked off as the runner goes through the place the lineman vacated
congenital pancytopenia;a rare congenital anemia characterized by pancytopenia and hypoplasia of the bone marrow
hurt;any physical damage to the body
withholding;the act of deducting (taxes) from an employee's salary
tonsillitis;inflammation of the tonsils
receptive aphasia;aphasia characterized by fluent but meaningless speech and severe impairment of the ability understand spoken or written words
second degree burn;blisters on the skin and superficial destruction of the dermis
tip;an indication of potential opportunity. 'he got a tip on the stock market'. 'a good lead for a job'
criticality;a state of critical urgency
paraplegia;paralysis of the lower half of the body
motorcycling;travel on a motorcycle
policy;written contract or certificate of insurance. 'you should have read the small print on your policy'
crux of the matter;the most important point
bonding;fastening firmly together
four flush;the act of bluffing in poker. deception by a false show of confidence in the strength of your cards
blackwater;any of several human or animal diseases characterized by dark urine resulting from rapid breakdown of red blood cells
misstep;an unintentional but embarrassing blunder. 'he recited the whole poem without a single trip'. 'confusion caused his unfortunate misstep'
bribery;the practice of offering something (usually money) in order to gain an illicit advantage
putrefaction;decay usually accompanied by an offensive odor
depopulation;the condition of having reduced numbers of inhabitants
reconstruction;the activity of constructing something again
meteorology;predicting what the weather will be
darning;the act of mending a hole in a garment with crossing threads
epithet;a defamatory or abusive word or phrase. 'sticks and stones may break my bones but names can never hurt me'
straddle;the act of sitting or standing astride
familiarity;an act of undue intimacy
uraemia;accumulation in the blood of nitrogen-bearing waste products (urea) that are usually excreted in the urine
wholeness;a state of robust good health
decentralisation;the spread of power away from the center to local branches or governments
order of business;a list of matters to be taken up (as at a meeting)
housemaid s knee;swelling of the bursa in the knee
pons asinorum;a problem that severely tests the ability of an inexperienced person
amputation;a condition of disability resulting from the loss of one or more limbs
debut;the act of beginning something new. 'they looked forward to the debut of their new product line'
betrothal;a mutual promise to marry
ruptured intervertebral disc;a painful rupture of the fibrocartilage of the disc between spinal vertebrae. occurs most often in the lumbar region
trophy;an award for success in war or hunting
tax benefit;a tax deduction that is granted in order to encourage a particular type of commercial activity
passage;the act of passing something to another person
barbarization;an act that makes people primitive and uncivilized
lupus;any of several forms of ulcerative skin disease
charleyhorse;(colloquial) a muscular cramp (especially in the thigh or calf) following vigorous exercise
bluff;the act of bluffing in poker. deception by a false show of confidence in the strength of your cards
speculativeness;financial risk
excitation;something that excites. 'he looked forward to the excitements of the day'
riot act;a former english law requiring mobs to disperse after a magistrate reads the law to them
legal fraud;comprises all acts or omissions or concealments involving breach of equitable or legal duty or trust or confidence
commitment;a message that makes a pledge
painter s colic;symptom of chronic lead poisoning and associated with obstinate constipation
vincent s angina;an acute communicable infection of the respiratory tract and mouth marked by ulceration of the mucous membrane
good night;a conventional expression of farewell
receipt;an acknowledgment (usually tangible) that payment has been made
sweating sickness;epidemic in the 15th and 16th centuries and characterized by profuse sweating and high mortality
wrapper;a paper jacket for a book. a jacket on which promotional information is printed
cunctation;the act of procrastinating
stasis;an abnormal state in which the normal flow of a liquid (such as blood) is slowed or stopped
answer;a statement that solves a problem or explains how to solve the problem. 'they were trying to find a peaceful solution'. 'the answers were in the back of the book'. 'he computed the result to four decimal places'
heist;robbery at gunpoint
immunological disorder;a disorder of the immune system
tautology;(in logic) a statement that is necessarily true. 'the statement 'he is brave or he is not brave' is a tautology'
endogenous depression;a state of depression for which there is no apparent precipitating cause
quarter crack;a crack on the inside of a horse's forefoot
rosiness;a rosy color (especially in the cheeks) taken as a sign of good health
manifesto;a public declaration of intentions (as issued by a political party or government)
battle fatigue;a mental disorder caused by stress of active warfare
facer;(a dated briticism) a serious difficulty with which one is suddenly faced
dissolution;the termination of a relationship
walk;a slow gait of a horse in which two feet are always on the ground
bait;anything that serves as an enticement
sashay;a journey taken for pleasure. 'many summer excursions to the shore'. 'it was merely a pleasure trip'. 'after cautious sashays into the field'
stripping;the removal of covering
sale;"the state of being purchasable. offered or exhibited for selling. 'vitamin c is on sale at most pharmacies'. 'the new line of cars will soon be on sale'"
disappearance;gradually ceasing to be visible
free will;the freedom or ability to choose
detachment;the act of releasing from an attachment or connection
recall;the act of removing an official by petition
slice;a golf shot that curves to the right for a right-handed golfer
intactness;the state of being unimpaired
clip;an instance or single occasion for some event. 'this time he succeeded'. 'he called four times'. 'he could do ten at a clip'
deflation;the act of letting the air out of something
wriggle;the act of wiggling
honours list;(british) a list issued by examiners that categorizes students according to the class of honours they achieved in their degree examinations
prod;a verbalization that encourages you to attempt something
iridokeratitis;inflammation of the iris and cornea of the eye
green monkey disease;a viral disease of green monkeys. when transmitted to humans it causes serious or fatal illness
abdominal pregnancy;ectopic pregnancy in the abdominal cavity
sunburn;inflammation of the skin caused by exposure to the rays of the sun
blending;the act of blending components together thoroughly
thrombocytopenia;a blood disease characterized by an abnormally small number of platelets in the blood
heart attack;a sudden severe instance of abnormal heart function
evasion;nonperformance of something distasteful (as by deceit or trickery) that you are supposed to do. 'his evasion of his clear duty was reprehensible'. 'that escape from the consequences is possible but unattractive'
potential;the inherent capacity for coming into being
currency;a current state of general acceptance and use
manic depression;a mental disorder characterized by episodes of mania and depression
actinic dermatitis;dermatitis caused exposure to sunlight
spot;an act that brings discredit to the person who does it. 'he made a huge blot on his copybook'
emotional disturbance;any mental disorder not caused by detectable organic abnormalities of the brain and in which a major disturbance of emotions is predominant
stye;an infection of the sebaceous gland of the eyelid
spread eagle;a skating figure executed with the skates heel to heel in a straight line
word of farewell;an acknowledgment or expression of goodwill at parting
actinomycosis;disease of cattle that can be transmitted to humans. results from infection with actinomycetes. characterized by hard swellings that exude pus through long sinuses
misdoing;an embarrassing mistake
misinformation;information that is incorrect
contradiction in terms;(in logic) a statement that is necessarily false. 'the statement 'he is brave and he is not brave' is a contradiction'
devitalisation;the act of reducing the vitality of something
break;the opening shot that scatters the balls in billiards or pool
claim;an assertion of a right (as to money or property). 'his claim asked for damages'
pycnodysostosis;a form of dwarfism accompanied by fragile bones and bad teeth
slashing;a strong sweeping cut made with a sharp instrument
megacephaly;an abnormally large head. differs from hydrocephalus because there is no increased intracranial pressure and the overgrowth is symmetrical
honour;a tangible symbol signifying approval or distinction. 'an award for bravery'
deactivation;breaking up a military unit (by transfers or discharges)
sm;a master's degree in science
collection;request for a sum of money (as in church)
cystic breast disease;the presence of one or more cysts in a breast
recusal;the disqualification of a judge or jury by reason of prejudice or conflict of interest. a judge can be recused by objections of either party or they can disqualify themselves
hard time;a difficulty that can be overcome with effort. 'we had a hard time getting here'
stumble;an unintentional but embarrassing blunder. 'he recited the whole poem without a single trip'. 'confusion caused his unfortunate misstep'
applause;a demonstration of approval by clapping the hands together
pyrosis;a painful burning sensation in the chest caused by acidic backflow from the stomach irritating the esophagus. symptomatic of an ulcer or other disorder
rage;a state of extreme anger. 'she fell into a rage and refused to answer'
boomerang;a miscalculation that recoils on its maker
pitching;abrupt up-and-down motion (as caused by a ship or other conveyance). 'the pitching and tossing was quite exciting'
derision;exposing someone to laughter
deterrent;something immaterial that interferes with or delays action or progress
land reform;a redistribution of agricultural land (especially by government action)
treaty;a written agreement between two states or sovereigns
blight canker;a phase of fire blight in which cankers appear
twiddle;a series of small (usually idle) twists or turns
fibrillation;muscular twitching involving individual muscle fibers acting without coordination
skimming;failure to declare income in order to avoid paying taxes on it
grammatical meaning;the meaning of a word that depends on its role in a sentence. varies with inflectional form
cupid s itch;a communicable disease transmitted by sexual intercourse or genital contact
time;an instance or single occasion for some event. 'this time he succeeded'. 'he called four times'. 'he could do ten at a clip'
distress;a state of adversity (danger or affliction or need). 'in trouble with the police'. 'he wanted to cure the ills of all mankind'. 'she was the classic maiden in distress'
phylactery;(judaism) a small leather case containing religious texts. worn by jewish men during morning prayer
trenchfoot;resembling frostbite but without freezing. resulting from exposure to cold and wet
hobble;the uneven manner of walking that results from an injured leg
pang;a sharp spasm of pain
turn;taking a short walk out and back. 'we took a turn in the park'
subdirectory;(computer science) a directory that is listed in another directory
schuller christian disease;inflammatory histiocytosis associated with disturbance of cholesterol metabolism. occurs chiefly in young children and is characterized by cystic defects of the skull and diabetes insipidus
content;"what a communication that is about something is about"
aphakia;absence of the natural lens of the eye (usually resulting from the removal of cataracts)
pronunciamento;a public declaration of intentions (as issued by a political party or government)
genius loci;the special atmosphere of a place
sturm und drang;a state of violent disturbance and disorder (as in politics or social conditions generally). 'the industrial revolution was a period of great turbulence'
serve;a stroke (in tennis or badminton or squash) that puts the ball in play. 'his powerful serves won the game'
maintenance;activity involved in maintaining something in good working order. 'he wrote the manual on car care'
cardiac arrest;absence of systole. failure of the ventricles of the heart to contract (usually caused by ventricular fibrillation) with consequent absence of the heart beat leading to oxygen lack and eventually to death
deletion;the act of deleting something written or printed
spillover;(economics) any indirect effect of public expenditure
amenia;absence or suppression of normal menstrual flow
raillery;light teasing repartee
footnote;a note placed below the text on a printed page
political arena;a sphere of intense political activity
pledge;a binding commitment to do or give or refrain from something: 'an assurance of help when needed'. 'signed a pledge never to reveal the secret'
shirking;the evasion of work or duty
marriage offer;an offer of marriage
hail;enthusiastic greeting
hay fever;a seasonal rhinitis resulting from an allergic reaction to pollen
amoebiasis;infection by a disease-causing ameba
suicide pact;an agreement by two or more people to commit suicide together at a given place and time. 'the two lovers killed themselves in a suicide pact'
side;an opinion that is held in opposition to another in an argument or dispute. 'there are two sides to every question'
technicality;a detail that is considered insignificant
vindication;the justification for some act or belief. 'he offered a persuasive defense of the theory'
death;"a final state. 'he came to a bad end'. 'the so-called glorious experiment came to an inglorious end'"
estrus;applies to nonhuman mammals: a state or period of heightened sexual arousal and activity
chemosis;edema of the mucous membrane of the eyeball and eyelid lining
discharge;the act of terminating someone's employment
purchase agreement;a contract stating the terms of a purchase
quasi contract;a contract created by law for reasons of justice without any expression of assent
vascular hemophilia;a form of hemophilia discovered by von willebrand
assault;an intentional physical attack or beating that causes unlawful violence to another person
dissipation;dissolute indulgence in sensual pleasure
marble bones disease;an inherited disorder characterized by an increase in bone density. in severe forms the bone marrow cavity may be obliterated
caffiene intoxication;poisoning resulting from excessive intake of caffeine containing products
synapse;the junction between two neurons (axon-to-dendrite) or between a neuron and a muscle. 'nerve impulses cross a synapse through the action of neurotransmitters'
autonomy;personal independence
association;the state of being connected together as in memory or imagination. 'his association of his father with being beaten was too strong to break'
thrombocytopenic purpura;purpura of unknown origin associated with a reduction in circulating blood platelets
rip off;(slang) the act of stealing
hysteria;state of violent mental agitation
state of affairs;"the general state of things. the combination of circumstances at a given time. 'the present international situation is dangerous'. 'wondered how such a state of affairs had come about'. 'eternal truths will be neither true nor eternal unless they have fresh meaning for every new social situation'- franklin d.roosevelt"
quadratic;an equation in which the highest power of an unknown quantity is a square
quadriplegia;paralysis of both arms and both legs
effusion;flow under pressure
seal;an indication of approved or superior status
difficulty;a factor causing trouble in achieving a positive result or tending to produce a negative result. 'serious difficulties were encountered in obtaining a pure reagent'
subtlety;a subtle difference in meaning
revilement;a rude expression intended to offend or hurt. 'when a student made a stupid mistake he spared them no abuse'. 'they yelled insults at the visiting team'
surrender;the act of surrendering (under agreed conditions). 'they were protected until the capitulation of the fort'
flash point;point at which something is ready to blow up
associative aphasia;aphasia in which the lesion is assumed to be in the association tracts connecting the various language centers in the brain. patient's have difficulty repeating a sentence just heard
abasia;inability to walk
pitch shot;a high approach shot in golf
sitting;the act of assuming or maintaining a seated position. 'he read the mystery at one sitting'
shiner;a bruise caused by a blow to the eye
tic douloureux;intense paroxysmal neuralgia along the trigeminal nerve
error;(baseball) a failure of a defensive player to make an out when normal play would have sufficed
instruction;a message describing how something is to be done. 'he gave directions faster than she could follow them'
freeze;an interruption or temporary suspension of progress or movement: 'a halt in the arms race'. 'a nuclear freeze'
vilification;slanderous defamation
paramountcy;the state of being paramount. the highest rank or authority
balanoposthitis;inflammation of both the head of the penis and the foreskin
septicemia;invasion of the bloodstream by virulent microorganisms from a focus of infection
rubeola;an acute and highly contagious viral disease marked by distinct red spots followed by a rash. occurs primarily in children
cephalhematoma;a collection of blood under the scalp of a newborn. caused by pressure during birth
carnal abuse;sexual intercourse with a girl who has not reached the age of consent
heartburn;a painful burning sensation in the chest caused by acidic backflow from the stomach irritating the esophagus. symptomatic of an ulcer or other disorder
hurt;the act of damaging something or someone
intemperateness;immoderate indulgence of bodily appetites
primary amenorrhea;delay of menarche beyond age 18
bloom;a rosy color (especially in the cheeks) taken as a sign of good health
psoriasis;a chronic skin disease characterized by dry red patches covered with scales. occurs especially on the scalp and ears and genitalia and the skin over bony prominences
visual impairment;impairment of the sense of sight
tempering;hardening something by heat treatment
citation;an official award (as for bravery or service) usually given as formal public statement
aspergillosis;severe respiratory disease of birds that takes the form of an acute rapidly fatal pneumonia in young chickens and turkeys
slaughter;the savage and excessive killing of people
slip;an inadvertent mistake
tetralogy of fallot;a congenital heart disease producing cyanosis
cut;in baseball. a batter's attempt to hit a pitched ball. 'he took a vicious cut at the ball'
wig;british slang for a scolding
stalking;the act of following prey stealthily
sale;an agreement (or contract) in which property is transferred from the seller (vendor) to the buyer (vendee) for a fixed price in money (paid or agreed to be paid by the buyer). 'the salesman faxed the sales agreement to his home office'
crime;an act punishable by law. usually considered an evil act
rota;(british) a roster of names showing the order in which people should perform certain duties
volley;a tennis return made by hitting the ball before it bounces
kick turn;a turn made in skiing
abc;a statement of fundamental facts or principles
contract under seal;a contract that is signed and has the (wax) seal of the signer attached
cirrhosis;a chronic disease interfering with the normal functioning of the liver. the major cause is chronic alcoholism
blood poisoning;invasion of the bloodstream by virulent microorganisms from a focus of infection
split up;an increase in the number of outstanding shares of a corporation without changing the shareholders' equity. 'they announced a two-for-one split of the common stock'
opening;becoming open or being made open. 'the opening of his arms was the sign i was waiting for'
window dressing;a showy misrepresentation intended to conceal something unpleasant
alcoholism;prolonged and excessive intake of alcoholic drinks leading to a breakdown in health and an addiction to alcohol such that abrupt deprivation leads to severe withdrawal symptoms
challenge;a demand by a sentry for a password or identification
audience;an opportunity to state your case and be heard. 'they condemned him without a hearing'. 'he saw that he had lost his audience'
blame;a reproach for some lapse or misdeed. 'he took the blame for it'. 'it was a bum rap'
abcessed tooth;a common form of abscess of the tissue around a tooth
grand tour;an extended sightseeing tour undertaken for pleasure
palsy;a condition marked by uncontrollable tremor
foolishness;a stupid mistake
verity;conformity to reality or actuality. 'they debated the truth of the proposition'. 'the situation brought home to us the blunt truth of the military threat'. 'he was famous for the truth of his portraits'. 'he turned to religion in his search for eternal verities'
whiplash injury;an injury to the neck (the cervical vertebrae) resulting from rapid acceleration or deceleration (as in an automobile accident)
extermination;the act of exterminating
vascular spider;a dilation of superficial capillaries with a central red dot from which blood vessels radiate
cervical root syndrome;an abnormal condition resulting from compression of spinal nerve roots in the neck region. involves neck pains and muscular weakness and paresthesia
hyperthermy;abnormally high body temperature
papillary tumour;a benign epithelial tumor forming a rounded mass
ab;a bachelor's degree in arts and sciences
discount;the act of reducing the selling price of merchandise
water travel;travel by water
preeclampsia;characterized by hypertension and fluid retention and albuminuria. can lead to eclampsia if untreated
seasoning;the act of adding a seasoning to food
mb;(a british degree) a bachelor's degree in medicine
dwarfism;a genetic abnormality resulting in short stature
division;separation by the creation of a boundary that divides or keeps apart
criminality;the state of being a criminal
bilharzia;an infection with a parasite of the genus schistosoma. common in the tropics and far east. symptoms depend on the part of the body infected
myotonic muscular dystrophy;a severe form of muscular dystrophy marked by facial weakness and drooping eyelids and difficult speech and difficulty with the hands that spreads to the arms and shoulders and legs and hips
recusation;the disqualification of a judge or jury by reason of prejudice or conflict of interest. a judge can be recused by objections of either party or they can disqualify themselves
backhand drive;a hard straight return made on the backhand side
overturn;the act of upsetting something. 'he was badly bruised by the upset of his sled at a high speed'
thm;a master's degree in theology
polycythemia;a disorder characterized by an abnormal increase in the number of red blood cells in the blood
electronic information service;(computer science) a database that can be accessed by computers
whooping cough;a disease of the respiratory mucous membrane
master of literature;a master's degree in literature
sobriety;the state of being sober
spinach blight;a disease of spinach plants
reunion;the act of coming together again
goading;a verbalization that encourages you to attempt something
hiccup;(usually plural) the state of having involuntary spasms of the diaphragm accompanied by a rapid closure of the glottis. sometimes a symptom of indigestion. 'how do you cure the hiccups?'
bronchitis;inflammation of the membranes lining the bronchial tubes
keratosis;a skin condition marked by an overgrowth of layers of horny skin
relapsing;a failure to maintain a higher state
reverse;turning in the opposite direction
engagement;a mutual promise to marry
disengagement;the act of releasing from an attachment or connection
attention deficit disorder;a condition (mostly in boys) characterized by behavioral and learning disorders
vitiligo;an acquired skin disease characterized by patches of unpigmented skin (often surrounded by a heavily pigmented border)
swing;a state of steady vigorous action that is characteristic of an activity. 'the party went with a swing'. 'it took time to get into the swing of things'
dependency;being abnormally dependent on something that is psychologically or physically habit-forming (especially alcohol or narcotic drugs)
electronic database;(computer science) a database that can be accessed by computers
amyotrophy;progressive wasting of muscle tissues
deep fording;fording at a deep place in the stream
record;a compilation of the known facts regarding something or someone. 'al smith used to say, 'let's look at the record''. 'his name is in all the recordbooks'
infantilism;an abnormal condition in which an older child or adult retains infantile characteristics
machine readable dictionary;a machine-readable version of a standard dictionary. organized alphabetically
alibi;(law) a defense by an accused person purporting to show that he or she could not have committed the crime in question
noise pollution;annoying and potentially harmful environmental noise
elaboration;addition of extra material or illustration or clarifying detail: 'a few remarks added in amplification and defense'. 'an elaboration of the idea followed'
stonewalling;stalling or delaying especially by refusing to answer questions or cooperate
computer database;(computer science) a database that can be accessed by computers
strawberry hemangioma;a congenital bright red superficial vascular tumor resembling a strawberry. tends to decrease in size during childhood
bns;a bachelor's degree in naval science
permutation;complete change in character or condition: 'the permutations...taking place in the physical world'- henry miller
dust wrapper;a paper jacket for a book. a jacket on which promotional information is printed
by product;a secondary and sometimes unexpected consequence
pollinosis;a seasonal rhinitis resulting from an allergic reaction to pollen
backtalk;an impudent or insolent rejoinder. 'don't give me any of your sass'
rinse;the act of giving a light tint to the hair
indebtedness;a financial condition of being indebted
licentiousness;dissolute indulgence in sensual pleasure
danger;"the condition of being susceptible to harm or injury. 'you are in no danger'. 'there was widespread danger of disease'"
brachydactylia;abnormal shortness of fingers and toes
names;verbal abuse. a crude substitute for argument
pressure;the state of urgently demanding notice or attention. 'the press of business matters'
aviation;travel via aircraft. 'air travel involves too much waiting in airports'. 'if you've time to spare go by air'
divination;a prediction uttered under divine inspiration
fraud;intentional deception resulting in injury to another person
weather forecasting;predicting what the weather will be
foot and mouth disease;acute contagious disease of cloven-footed animals marked by ulcers in the mouth and around the hoofs
sunburn;a browning of the skin resulting from exposure to the rays of the sun
implosion;the initial occluded phase of a stop consonant
psychomotor epilepsy;epilepsy characterized clinically by impairment of consciousness and amnesia for the episode. often involves purposeful movements of the arms and legs and sometimes hallucinations
third degree burn;characterized by destruction of both epidermis and dermis
drink;the act of drinking alcoholic beverages to excess. 'drink was his downfall'
concession;a contract granting the right to operate a subsidiary business: 'he got the beer concession at the ball park'
drivel;a worthless message
arteriolosclerosis;sclerosis of the arterioles
hostility;"a state of deep-seated ill-will"
contamination;the act of contaminating or polluting. including (either intentionally or accidentally) unwanted substances or factors
pace;a step in walking or running
delay;the act of delaying
uterine contraction;a rhythmic tightening in labor of the upper uterine musculature that contracts the size of the uterus and pushes the fetus toward the birth canal
incitement;an act of inciting
congressional medal of honor;the highest u.s. military decoration awarded for bravery and valor in action 'above and beyond the call of duty'
sovereignty;government free from external control
myxedema;marked by dry skin and swellings around lips and nose as well as mental deterioration
neurological disease;a disorder of the nervous system
cryptorchidism;failure of one or both testes to move into the scrotum as the male fetus develops
dishabille;"the state of being carelessly or partially dressed"
pleurisy;inflammation of the pleura (especially the parietal layer)
bringing;the act of delivering or distributing something (as goods or mail). 'his reluctant delivery of bad news'
irritable bowel syndrome;recurrent abdominal pain and diarrhea (often alternating with periods of constipation). often associated with emotional stress
libel;a tort consisting of false and malicious publication printed for the purpose of defaming a living person
mutual aid;arrangements made between nations to assist each other
skin rash;any eruption of the skin
political sphere;a sphere of intense political activity
suppression;forceful prevention: 'suppression of liberal newspapers'. 'quelling of the revolution'
want ad;a newspaper advertisement stating what is wanted
intumescency;swelling up with blood or other fluids (as with congestion)
overstatement;making to seem more important than it really is
determinative;a determining or causal element or factor: 'education is an important determinant of one's outlook onlife'
waver;the act of moving back and forth
marfan s syndrome;an autosomal dominant disease characterized by elongated bones (especially of limbs and digits) and abnormalities of the eyes and circulatory system
catalogue;a complete list of things. usually arranged systematically. 'it does not pretend to be a catalogue of his achievements'
image;a standard or typical example. 'he is the prototype of good breeding'. 'he provided america with an image of the good father'
electronic dictionary;a machine-readable version of a standard dictionary. organized alphabetically
transcortical aphasia;a general term for aphasia that results from lesions outside of broca's area or wernicke's area of the cerebral cortex
volte face;a reversal in attitude or principle or point of view: 'an about-face on foreign policy'
employment contract;contract between employer and employee
inaction;"the state of being inactive"
renal failure;inability of the kidneys to excrete wastes and to help maintain the electrolyte balance
abracadabra;gibberish and nonsense
safety;"the state of being safe. 'the safety of the children'"
annealing;hardening something by heat treatment
locoism;a disease of livestock caused by locoweed poisoning. characterized by weakness and lack of coordination and trembling and partial paralysis
kissing disease;an acute disease characterized by fever and swollen lymph nodes. some believe it can be transmitted by kissing
rebuke;an expression of criticism and censure. 'he had to take the rebuke with a smile on his face'
military greeting;a formal military gesture of respect
caveat;(law) a formal notice filed with a court or officer to suspend a proceeding until filer is given a hearing: 'a caveat filed against the probate of a will'
stir;a disorderly outburst or tumult. 'they were amazed by the furious disturbance they had caused'
malapropism;the unintentional misuse of a word by confusion with one that sounds similar
nuance;a subtle difference in meaning
trichomoniasis;infection of the vagina
reversion;turning in the opposite direction
obligation;the state of having financial obligations
surge;a sudden or abrupt strong increase: 'stimulated a surge of speculation'. 'an upsurge of emotion'. 'an upsurge in violent crime'
reinforcement;information that makes more forcible or convincing. 'his gestures provided eloquent reinforcement for his complaints'
blatherskite;foolish gibberish
neglect;the state of something that has been unused and neglected. 'the house was in a terrible state of neglect'
disunion;the termination or destruction of union
fever blister;caused by herpes simplex virus type 1 (hvs-1)
ketoaciduria;excessive amounts of ketone bodies in the urine as in diabetes mellitus or starvation
advance;increase in price or value: 'the news caused a general advance on the stock market'
monopoly;exclusive control or possession of something. 'they have no monopoly on intelligence'
fresh start;an opportunity to start over without prejudice
hook;anything that serves as an enticement
nonexistence;the state of not existing
bell book;a logbook in which all orders concerning the main engines of a ship are recorded
opportunity;a possibility due to a favorable combination of circumstances. 'the holiday gave us the opportunity to visit washington'. 'now is your chance'
medaille militaire;a french military decoration
cholecystitis;inflammation of the gall bladder
answer;a statement (either spoken or written) that is made in reply to a question or request or criticism or accusation. 'i waited several days for his answer'. 'he wrote replies to several of his critics'
noctambulism;walking by a person who is asleep
throe;severe spasm of pain: 'the throes of dying'. 'the throes of childbirth'
how do you do;an expression of greeting. 'every morning they exchanged polite hellos'
manual alphabet;an alphabet used by the deaf. letters are represented by finger positions
claim;a demand especially in the phrase 'the call of duty'
bad luck;an unfortunate state resulting from unfavorable outcomes
requirements contract;a contract in which you agree to purchase all your requirements of a particular sort from one party
joy;something or someone that provides pleasure. a source of happiness. 'a joy to behold'. 'the pleasure of his company'. 'the new car is a delight'
head ache;pain in the head caused by dilation of cerebral arteries or muscle contractions or a reaction to drugs
spreading;act of extending over a wider scope or expanse of space or time
pink disease;serious bark disease of many tropical crop trees (coffee. citrus. rubber). branches have a covering of pink hyphae
concentration;strengthening the concentration (as of a solute in a mixture) by removing extraneous material
black book;a list of people who are out of favor
rot;a ludicrously false statement
mastalgia;pain in the breast
life;the course of existence of an individual. the actions and events that occur in living. 'he hoped for a new life in australia'. 'he wanted to live his own life without interference from others'
collective agreement;contract between labor and management government wages and benefits and working conditions
costalgia;pain in the chest caused by inflammation of the muscles between the ribs
footwork;the manner of using the feet
closing;the act of closing something
risklessness;safety as a consequence of entailing no risk
mitral valve stenosis;obstruction or narrowing of the mitral valve (as by scarring from rheumatic fever)
multiple personality;a relatively rare disorder in which the usual integrity of the personality breaks down and two or more independent personalities emerge
swelling;abnormal protuberance or localized enlargement
promotional material;a message issued in behalf of some product or cause or institution
return;the act of returning to a prior location. 'they set out on their return to the base camp'
graze;a superficial abrasion
retrogression;returning to a former state
wait;the act of waiting (remaining inactive in one place while expecting something). 'the wait was an ordeal for him'
programme;an announcement of the events that will occur as part of a theatrical or sporting event. 'you can't tell the players without a program'
cough;sudden expulsion of air from the lungs that clears the air passages. a common symptom of upper respiratory infection or bronchitis or pneumonia or tuberculosis
hematocyst;a cyst containing blood
fossilization;becoming inflexible or out of date
tachycardia;abnormally rapid heartbeat
brouhaha;a confused disturbance far greater than its cause merits
ushering in;the introduction of something new. 'it signalled the ushering in of a new era'
indecorum;an act of undue intimacy
accommodation;(physiology) the automatic adjustment in focal length of the lens of the eye
leisure;freedom to choose a pastime or enjoyable activity. 'he lacked the leisure for golf'
fall;a lapse into sin. a loss of innocence or of chastity. 'a fall from virtue'
license;excessive freedom. lack of due restraint: 'when liberty becomes license dictatorship is near'- will durant. 'the intolerable license with which the newspapers break...the rules of decorum'- edmund burke
formation;the act of forming something. 'the constitution of a pta group'. 'he still remembers the establishment of the hospital'
vasodilation;dilation of blood vessels (especially the arteries)
error;part of a statement that is not correct. 'the book was full of errors'
nonperformance;failure to act
osteomalacia;abnormal softening of bones caused by deficiencies of phosphorus or calcium or vitamin d
wear;impairment resulting from long use. 'the tires showed uneven wear'
hemangioma;angioma consisting of a mass of blood vessels
quip;witty remark
jet lag;fatigue and sleep disturbance resulting from disruption of the body's normal circadian rhythm as a result of jet travel
skullduggery;verbal misrepresentation intended to take advantage of you in some way
milieu;the environmental condition
distaff;the sphere of work by women
indicant;a number or ratio (a value on a scale of measurement) derived from a series of observed facts. can reveal relative changes as a function of time
laurel wreath;an award for winning a championship
shift;the act of changing one thing or position for another. 'his switch on abortion cost him the election'
table d hote;a menu offering a complete meal with limited choices at a fixed price
failing;failure to reach a minimum required performance. 'his failing the course led to his disqualification'
head cold;a common cold affecting the nasal passages and resulting in congestion and sneezing and headache
tearing down;complete destruction of a building
juncture;a crisis situation or point in time when a critical decision must be made. 'at that juncture he had no idea what to do'. 'he must be made to realize that the company stands at a critical point'
fertilization;making fertile as by applying fertilizer or manure
mountain climbing;the activity of climbing a mountain
crossroads;a crisis situation or point in time when a critical decision must be made. 'at that juncture he had no idea what to do'. 'he must be made to realize that the company stands at a critical point'
error;a wrong action attributable to bad judgment or ignorance or inattention. 'the fault was all mine'
quotation;a short note acknowledging a source of information or quoting a passage. 'the student's essay failed to list several important citations'. 'the article includes mention of similar clinical cases'
smear;slanderous defamation
revocation;the act (by someone having the authority) of annulling something previously done. 'the revocation of a law'
ateleiosis;a form of infantilism characterized by physical underdevelopment but normal intelligence
twitch;a sudden spasm especially one caused by a nervous condition
vacation;the act of making something legally void
banns;a public announcement (in church) of a proposed marriage
parliamentary procedure;a body of rules followed by an assembly
imprint;a distinctive influence. 'english stills bears the imprint of the norman invasion'
testimony;a solemn statement made under oath
actual sin;a sin committed of your own free will (as contrasted with original sin)
altitude sickness;effects (as nosebleed or nausea) of oxygen deficiency in the blood and tissues at high altitudes
joining;the act of bringing two things into contact
allegement;statements affirming or denying certain matters of fact
background knowledge;"information that is essential to understanding a situation or problem. 'the embassy filled him in on the background of the incident'"
junction;a act of adjoining things
water pollution;pollution of the water
disappointment;the act of disappointing someone
colouring;the act of of process of changing the color of something
section eight;a discharge from the us army based on unfitness or character traits deemed undesirable
deal;an agreement between parties (usually arrived at after discussion) fixing obligations of each. 'he made a bargain with the devil'. 'he rose to prominence through a series of shady deals'
book jacket;a paper jacket for a book. a jacket on which promotional information is printed
hello;an expression of greeting. 'every morning they exchanged polite hellos'
anoxic anoxia;anoxia resulting from defective oxygenation of the blood in the lungs
catharsis;(psychoanalysis) purging of emotional tensions
aeroembolism;pain resulting from rapid change in pressure
troth;a solemn pledge of fidelity
abruption;an instance of breaking off suddenly
characterization;a graphic or vivid verbal description. 'too often the narrative was interrupted by long word pictures'. 'the author gives a depressing picture of life in poland'
bog spavin;spavin caused by collection of fluids
ateliosis;a form of infantilism characterized by physical underdevelopment but normal intelligence
colpocystitis;inflammation of the vagina and bladder
acromegalia;enlargement of bones of hands and feet and face. often accompanied by headache and muscle pain and emotional disturbances. caused by overproduction of growth hormone by the anterior pituitary gland (due to a tumor)
strain;a state of extreme difficulty: 'he presided over the economy during the period of the greatest stress and danger'- r.j.samuelson
blue law;a statute regulating work on sundays
sids;sudden and unexpected death of an apparently healthy infant during sleep
barber s itch;fungal infection of the face and neck
bastardisation;an act that debases or corrupts
bid;(bridge) the number of tricks a bridge player is willing to contract to make
haematoma;a localized swelling filled with blood
skin problem;a disease affecting the skin
myocardial infarct;destruction of heart tissue resulting from obstruction of the blood supply to the heart muscle
cachexy;any general wasting of body and mind resulting from any debilitating chronic disease
mental disturbance;(psychiatry) a psychological disorder of thought or emotion. a more neutral term than mental illness
delinquency;an antisocial misdeed in violation of the law by a minor
babbling;gibberish resembling the sounds of a baby
perfection;"the state of being without a flaw or defect"
partial breach;a breach that does not destroy the value of the contract but can give rise to a claim for damages
nerve block anaesthesia;anesthesia of an area supplied by a nerve. produced by an anesthetic agent applied to the nerve
malignant hypertenions;severe hypertension that runs a rapid course and damages the inner linings of the blood vessels and the heart and spleen and kidneys and brain. 'malignant hypertension is the most lethal form of hypertension'
misconstruction;a deliberate misinterpretation
eighteenth amendment;an amendment to the constitution of the united states adopted in 1920. prohibited the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages. repealed in 1932
vim;a healthy capacity for vigorous activity. 'jogging works off my excess energy'. 'he seemed full of vim and vigor'
contradiction;the speech act of contradicting someone. 'he spoke as if he thought his claims were immune to contradiction'
doctor of fine arts;an honorary degree in fine arts
breach of promise;failure to keep a promise (of marriage)
proof;any factual evidence that helps to establish the truth of something. 'if you have any proof for what you say, now is the time to produce it'
weaning;the act of substituting other food for the mother's milk in the diet of a child or young mammal
deduction;the act of reducing the selling price of merchandise
widening;the act of making something wider
crosscheck;an instance of confirming something by considering information from several sources
representative;a single item of information that is representative of a type. 'this patient provides a typical example of the syndrome'. 'there is a good example on page 10'
insect bite;a painful wound caused by the thrust of a stinger into skin
displacement;the act of uniform movement
word deafness;an impairment in understanding spoken language that is not attributable to hearing loss
drinking;the act of drinking alcoholic beverages to excess. 'drink was his downfall'
bladder disorder;a disorder of the urinary bladder
neuralgy;acute spasmodic pain along the course of one or more nerves
vitiation;nullification by the destruction of the legal force. rendering null. 'the vitiation of the contract'
pilferage;the act of stealing small amounts or small articles
babel;a confusion of voices and other sounds
anorchidism;absence of one of both testes
alerting;a state of readiness to respond. 'alerting was indicated by the desynchronization of the eeg'
excursus;a message that departs from the main subject
account payable;a liability account showing how much is owed for goods and services purchased on credit
ketoacidosis;acidosis with an accumulation of ketone bodies. occurs primarily in diabetes mellitus
master of divinity;a master's degree in religion
motion;a formal proposal for action made to a deliberative assembly for discussion and vote. 'he made a motion to adjourn'. 'she called for the question'
agitation;disturbance usually in protest
intimation;an indirect suggestion. 'not a breath of scandal ever touched her'
vice;a specific form of evildoing. 'vice offends the moral standards of the community'
swindle;the act of swindling by some fraudulent scheme: 'that book is a fraud'
angina pectoris;a heart condition marked by paroxysms of chest pain due to reduced oxygen to the heart
granuloma;a tumor composed of granulation tissue resulting from injury or inflammation or infection
discretion;freedom to act or judge on one's own
glanders;a destructive and contagious bacterial disease of horses
mainstay;a central cohesive source of support and stability: 'faith is his anchor'. 'he is the linchpin of this firm'
concordance;an index of all main words in a book along with their immediate contexts
astheny;an abnormal loss of strength
drop shot;a soft return so that the tennis ball drops abruptly after crossing the net
intumescence;swelling up with blood or other fluids (as with congestion)
black lung disease;lung disease caused by inhaling coal dust
contumely;a rude expression intended to offend or hurt. 'when a student made a stupid mistake he spared them no abuse'. 'they yelled insults at the visiting team'
groundbreaking;the ceremonial breaking of the ground to formally begin a construction project
envelopment;the act of enclosing something inside something else
wrong;a legal injury is any damage resulting from a violation of a legal right
maladjustment;the condition of being unable to adapt properly to your environment with resulting emotional instability
example;"an occurrence of something. 'it was a case of bad judgment'. 'another instance occurred yesterday'. 'but there is always the famous example of the smiths'"
musical instrument digital interface;a standard protocol for communication between electronic musical instruments and computers
disfavor;the state of being out of favor. 'he is in disfavor with the king'
hyperlipemia;a blood disorder characterized by the presence of excess lipids in the blood
hypoglycemia;abnormally low blood sugar usually resulting from excessive insulin or a poor diet
hypnophobia;a morbid fear of falling asleep
infertility;the state of being unable to produce offspring
normothermia;normal body temperature
indecency;an indecent or improper act
memorial;a recognition of meritorious service
pear blight;a disease blackening the leaves of pear and apple trees
hyperopia;abnormal condition in which vision for distant objects is better than for near objects
myoneural junction;the junction between a nerve fiber and the muscle it supplies
reprehension;an expression of criticism and censure. 'he had to take the rebuke with a smile on his face'
pollution;the state of being contaminated with harmful substances
scissors kick;a kick used in the sidestroke. legs are brought together in a scissoring motion
moving in;the act of taking occupancy
blackmail;extortion of money by threats to divulge discrediting information
hard on;an erect penis
separation;the act of dividing or disconnecting
canter;an smooth 3-beat gait. between a trot and a gallop
explosion;the act of exploding or bursting something. 'the explosion of the firecrackers awoke the children'. 'the burst of an atom bomb creates enormous radiation aloft'
hemorrhagic fever;a viral infection (usually restricted to a specific geographic area). fever and gastrointestinal symptoms are followed by capillary hemorrhage
deuteranopia;inability to distinguish green and purplish-red
inspiration;arousing to a particular emotion or action
charge;(criminal law) a pleading describing some wrong or offense. 'he was arrested on a charge of larceny'
bacillary white diarrhea;a serious bacterial disease of young chickens
groundbreaking ceremony;the ceremonial breaking of the ground to formally begin a construction project
eternal damnation;"the state of being condemned to eternal punishment in hell"
suspended animation;a temporary cessation of vital functions with loss of consciousness resembling death. usually resulting from asphyxia
double dutch;(colloquial british) incomprehensible talk
ammoniuria;excessive ammonia in the urine
congenital afibrinogenemia;a rare congenital disorder of blood coagulation in which no fibrinogen is found in the blood plasma
want;the state of needing something that is absent or unavailable. 'there is a serious lack of insight into the problem'. 'water is the critical deficiency in desert regions'. 'for want of a nail the shoe was lost'
albuminuria;the presence of excessive protein (chiefly albumin but also globulin) in the urine. usually a symptom of kidney disorder
crown wart;a fungous disease of alfalfa which forms white excrescences at the base of the stem
cellularity;the state of having cells
episiotomy;surgical incision of the perineum to enlarge the vagina and so facilitate delivery during childbirth
bet;the act of gambling. 'he did it on a bet'
dust jacket;a paper jacket for a book. a jacket on which promotional information is printed
inherited disorder;a disease or disorder that is inherited genetically
distemper;any of various infectious diseases of animals
pyrophobia;a morbid fear of fire
banti s syndrome;a disease characterized by congestion and enlargement of the spleen. accompanied by anemia or cirrhosis
cause;a justification for something existing or happening. 'he had no cause to complain'. 'they had good reason to rejoice'
riddance;the act of removing or getting rid of something
divarication;branching at a wide angle
gambling contract;a contract whose performance by one party is contingent on the outcome of a bet. unenforceable by statute in most jurisdictions
forking;the act of branching out or dividing into branches
yellow fever;caused by a virus transmitted by a mosquito
thalassaemia;an inherited form of anemia caused by faulty synthesis of hemoglobin
special contract;a contract that is signed and has the (wax) seal of the signer attached
rebuilding;building again
strip;a sequence of drawings in a newspaper telling a story
bmus;a bachelor's degree in music
coarsening;the act of making something attractive to the general public
spirit;the intended meaning of a communication
epitaph;a summary statement of commemoration for a dead person
dissuasion;a communication that dissuades you
strain;injury to a muscle (often caused by overuse). results in swelling and pain
unattainableness;the state of being unattainable
turnabout;turning in the opposite direction
essential thrombocytopenia;the primary form of thrombocytopenia (rather than a shortage of platelets caused by with other conditions such as tuberculosis or chemical suppression of bone marrow etc.)
law;one of a set of rules governing a particular activity or a legal document setting forth such a rule. 'there is a law against kidnapping'
sealed instrument;a contract that is signed and has the (wax) seal of the signer attached
stipulative definition;a definition that is stipulated by someone and that is not a standard usage
blue book;a report published by the british government. bound in blue
comment;a statement that expresses a personal opinion or belief. 'from time to time she contributed a personal comment on his account'
theft;the act of stealing. 'the thieving is awful at kennedy international'
bamboo curtain;an ideological barrier around communist china especially in the 1950s and 1960s
abreaction;(psychoanalysis) purging of emotional tensions
superbia;unreasonable and inordinate self-esteem (personified as one of the deadly sins)
digression;a message that departs from the main subject
tampering;altering something secretly or improperly
scission;the act of dividing by cutting or splitting
incorporation;consolidating by incorporation
reporting;the news as presented by reporters for newspapers or radio of television. 'they accused the paper of biased coverage of race relations'
salicylate poisoning;poisoning caused by the excessive ingestion of salicylates (usually aspirin)
scleritis;inflammation of the sclera
introduction;a new proposal. 'they resisted the introduction of impractical alternatives'
cradle cap;a dermatitis of the scalp that is common in infants
clavus;a hard thickening of the skin (especially of the toes) caused by the pressure of ill-fitting shoes
whack;the act of hitting vigorously. 'he gave the table a whack'
eyestrain;a tiredness of the eyes caused by prolonged close work by a person with an uncorrected vision problem
gordian knot;any very difficult problem. insoluble in its own terms
tinnitus;a ringing or booming sensation in one or both ears. a symptom of an ear infection or meniere's disease
logistic assistance;assistance between and within military commands
folderol;nonsensical talk or writing
lead poisoning;toxic condition produced by the absorption of excessive lead into the system
sneeze;a symptom consisting of the involuntary expulsion of air from the nose
dysentery;an infection of the intestines marked by severe diarrhea
rage;something that is desired intensely. 'his rage for fame destroyed him'
crawl;a very slow movement. 'the traffic advanced at a crawl'
legal injury;a legal injury is any damage resulting from a violation of a legal right
parkinson s;a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterized by tremor and impaired muscular coordination
dysgenesis;infertility between hybrids
plight;a solemn pledge of fidelity
attainder;cancellation of civil rights
self improvement;the act of improving yourself
rumpus;the act of making a noisy disturbance
take up;the action of taking up as by tightening or absorption or reeling in
careen;pitching dangerously to one side
recommencement;beginning again
circuit;movement once around a course. 'he drove an extra lap just for insurance'
xenophobia;a fear of foreigners or strangers
sour grapes;disparagement of something that is unattainable
looseness of the bowels;frequent and watery bowel movements
rap;the act of hitting vigorously. 'he gave the table a whack'
how do you do;an awkward situation. 'that's a fine how-d'ye-do'
bedlam;a state of extreme confusion and disorder
upset;"a disturbance of normal functioning. 'the doctor prescribed some medicine for the disorder'. 'everyone gets stomach upsets from time to time'"
self reproof;the act of blaming yourself
state of mind;a temporary psychological state
probable cause;(in law) evidence sufficient to warrant an arrest or search and seizure. 'a magistrate determined that there was probable cause to search the house'
anxiety hysteria;a form of hysteria having features of both conversion disorder and anxiety neurosis
excoriation;an abraded area where the skin is torn or worn off
shipping pneumonia;a deadly form of septicemia in cattle and sheep. involves high fever and pneumonia. contracted under conditions of exposure or exhaustion (as often happens when the animals are shipped to market)
flying;an instance of traveling by air. 'flying was still an exciting adventure for him'
precedent;"an example that is used to justify similar occurrences at a later time"
rapid eye movement sleep;a recurring sleep state during which dreaming occurs. a state of rapid eye movements during sleep
irish bull;a ludicrously false statement
schistosomiasis;an infection with a parasite of the genus schistosoma. common in the tropics and far east. symptoms depend on the part of the body infected
aminoaciduria;abnormal presence of amino acids in the urine. usually a symptom of metabolic defects
saint anthony s fire;any of several inflammatory or gangrenous skin conditions
safari;an overland journey by hunters (especially in africa)
corner;a predicament from which a skillful or graceful escape is impossible. 'his lying got him into a tight corner'
site;"physical position in relation to the surroundings"
outcome;"a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon. 'the magnetic effect was greater when the rod was lengthwise'. 'his decision had depressing consequences for business'"
reassembly;assembling again
haleness;a state of robust good health
secession;formal withdrawal or separation from an alliance or federation
speculation;a message expressing an opinion based on incomplete evidence
acceptation;the meaning of a word
documentation;confirmation that some fact or statement is true
example;"a representative form or pattern. 'i profited from his example'"
cleansing;the act of making something clean. 'he gave his shoes a good cleaning'
fate;"your overall circumstances or condition in life (including everything that happens to you): 'whatever my fortune may be'. 'deserved a better fate'. 'has a happy lot'. 'the luck of the irish'. 'a victim of circumstances'. 'success that was her portion'"
bow;an appearance by actors or performers at the end of the concert or play in order to acknowledge the applause of the audience
fibrocystic breast disease;the presence of one or more cysts in a breast
ignition;the act of starting a fire
diabetes mellitus;diabetes of pancreatic origin characterized by insulin deficiency
sweetening;an improvement that makes something more agreeable
dry rot;a crumbling and drying of timber or bulbs or potatoes or fruit caused by a fungus
waiting;the act of waiting (remaining inactive in one place while expecting something). 'the wait was an ordeal for him'
compound fracture;bone fracture associated with lacerated soft tissue or an open wound
traverse;travel across
pretending;the act of pretending
frambesia;an infectious tropical disease resembling syphillis in its early stages. marked by red skin eruptions and ulcerating lesions
medal of honor;the highest u.s. military decoration awarded for bravery and valor in action 'above and beyond the call of duty'
animalisation;an act that makes people cruel or lacking normal human qualities
ado;a rapid bustling commotion
mockery;showing your contempt by derision
consistency;logical coherence and accordance with the facts: 'a rambling argument that lacked any consistency'
yellow jack;caused by a virus transmitted by a mosquito
tabula rasa;an opportunity to start over without prejudice
bighead;any of various diseases of animals characterized by edema of the head and neck
ba;a bachelor's degree in arts and sciences
counseling;direction or advice as to a decision or course of action
enhancement;an improvement that makes something more agreeable
salt ii;the second treaty between the us and ussr resulting from the strategic arms limitation talks
monostotic fibrous dysplasia;fibrous dysplasia of bone confined to a single bone
inception;an event that is a beginning. a first part or stage of subsequent events
disturbance;the act of disturbing something or someone. setting something in motion
leveling;complete destruction of a building
malpractice;a wrongful act that the actor had no right to do. improper professional conduct. 'he charged them with electoral malpractices'
disruption;a disorderly outburst or tumult. 'they were amazed by the furious disturbance they had caused'
angina;a heart condition marked by paroxysms of chest pain due to reduced oxygen to the heart
contact;the state or condition of touching or of being in immediate proximity: 'litmus paper turns red on contact with an acid'
hadj;a pilgrimage to mecca. every muslim must make this journey at least once
reform;a change for the better as a result of correcting abuses. 'justice was for sale before the reform of the law courts'
tosh;pretentious or silly talk or writing
slip of the tongue;an accidental and usually trivial mistake in speaking
deviance;deviate behavior
increase;the act of increasing something. 'he gave me an increase in salary'
sleepy sickness;an encephalitis that was epidemic between 1915 and 1926. symptoms include paralysis of the extrinsic eye muscle and extreme muscular weakness
tiredness;temporary loss of strength and energy resulting from hard physical or mental work
turner s syndrome;a chromosomal disorder in females who have only one x chromosome. marked by dwarfism and heart abnormalities and underdeveloped sex organs
feeling;the general atmosphere of a place or situation. 'the feel of the city excited him'. 'a clergyman improved the tone of the meeting'. 'it had the smell of treason'
feigning;the act of pretending
stimulus;"any stimulating information or event. acts to arouse action"
tan;a browning of the skin resulting from exposure to the rays of the sun
reading;a particular interpretation or performance. 'on that reading it was an insult'. 'he was famous for his reading of mozart'
avowal;a statement asserting the existence or the truth of something
hearing loss;impairment of the sense of hearing
causal factor;a determining or causal element or factor: 'education is an important determinant of one's outlook onlife'
recommendation;something (as a course of action) that is recommended
ruining;destruction achieved by wrecking something
journey;the act of traveling from one place to another
amortization;the reduction of the value of an asset by prorating its cost over a period of years
trudge;a long difficult walk
malady;impairment of normal physiological function affecting part or all of an organism
clipping;the act of clipping or snipping
distinguished service medal;a us military decoration for meritorious service in wartime duty of great responsibility
hordeolum;an infection of the sebaceous gland of the eyelid
aestivation;cessation from or slowing of activity during the summer. especially slowing of metabolism in some animals
violation;a disrespectful act
counter;a return punch
urethritis;inflammation of the urethra. results in painful urination
panic disorder;an anxiety disorder characterized by unpredictable panic attacks. the attacks are usually severe but brief
cut;the act of reducing the amount or number. 'the mayor proposed extensive cuts in the city budget'
periodic apnea of the newborn;irregular breathing of newborns. periods of rapid breathing followed by apnea. believed to be associated with sudden infant death syndrome
salting;the act of adding salt to food
septation;the division or partitioning of a cavity into parts by a septum
joke;a humorous anecdote or remark
quick march;marching at quick time
wart;(pathology) a firm abnormal elevated blemish on the skin. caused by a virus
bachelor of theology;a bachelor's degree in theology
tennis elbow;painful inflammation of tissues surrounding the elbow caused by strain from playing tennis and other sports
climate;"the prevailing psychological state. 'the climate of opinion'. 'the national mood had changed radically since the last election'"
barrier;any condition that makes it difficult to make progress or to achieve an objective. 'intolerance is a barrier to understanding'
achylia gastrica;absence of gastric juices (partial or complete)
quibble;an evasion of the point of an argument by raising irrelevant distinctions or objections
disorderliness;"a condition in which things are not in their expected places: 'the files are in complete disorder'"
inactivity;"being inactive"
blood spavin;spavin caused by distension of the veins
thinning;the act of diluting something. 'the cutting of whiskey with water'. 'the thinning of paint with turpentine'
chicken breast;abnormal protrusion of the breastbone caused by rickets
goose bumps;symptom of coldness
habituation;a general accommodation to unchanging environmental conditions
stalemate;drawing position in chess: any of a player's possible moves would place his king in check
hoof and mouth disease;acute contagious disease of cloven-footed animals marked by ulcers in the mouth and around the hoofs
fibrocystic disease of the pancreas;a congenital disease in which the pancreas and lungs and intestines become clogged with mucus
good day;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
ventricular fibrillation;fibrillation of heart muscles resulting in interference with rhythmic contractions of the ventricles and possibly leading to cardiac arrest
waddle;walking with a waddling gait
turbulence;a state of violent disturbance and disorder (as in politics or social conditions generally). 'the industrial revolution was a period of great turbulence'
wild goose chase;the fruitless pursuit of something unattainable
seafaring;travel by water
drinking bout;a long period of drinking
blackheart;any of various diseases in which the central tissues blacken
criticism;disapproval expressed by pointing out faults or shortcomings. 'the senator received severe criticism from his opponent'
vulgarisation;the act of making something attractive to the general public
clarification;the act of removing solid particles from a liquid
icing the puck;(ice hockey) the act of shooting the puck from within your own defensive area the length of the rink beyond the opponent's goal
tcp ip;a set of protocols (including tcp) developed for the internet in the 1970s to get data from one network device to another
thrill;something that thrills. 'the thrills of space travel'
decontamination;the removal of contaminants
mat;a master's degree in teaching
chiding;rebuking a person harshly
deactivation;the act of deactivating or making ineffective (as a bomb)
enrichment;act of making fuller or more meaningful or rewarding
asthenia;an abnormal loss of strength
luff;sailing close to the wind
weakening;the act of reducing the strength of something
exponential equation;an equation involving exponential functions of a variable
templet;a model or standard for making comparisons
goofing off;the evasion of work or duty
yellow dwarf of potato;the yellow dwarf disease of potato plants
clip;a sharp slanting blow. 'he gave me a clip on the ear'
march;a steady advance. 'the march of science'. 'the march of time'
gram s procedure;a staining technique used to classify bacteria. those that retain the gentian violet are gram-positive and those that do not retain it are gram-negative
combination;the act of combining things
grounds;"your basis for belief or disbelief. knowledge on which to base belief. 'the evidence that smoking causes lung cancer is very compelling'"
reportage;the news as presented by reporters for newspapers or radio of television. 'they accused the paper of biased coverage of race relations'
disheartenment;a communication that leaves you disheartened or daunted
shot;(sports) the act of swinging or striking at a ball with a club or racket or bat or cue or hand. 'a good shot require good balance and tempo'. 'he left me an almost impossible shot'
glossitis;inflammation of the tongue
rustling;the stealing of cattle
prospect;the possibility of future success. 'his prospects as a writer are excellent'
crick;a painful muscle spasm especially in the neck or back ('rick' and 'wrick' are british)
cryptorchism;failure of one or both testes to move into the scrotum as the male fetus develops
trade last;a compliment that i heard about you that i offer to trade for a compliment you have heard about me
enfolding;the act of enfolding something
reversal;turning in the opposite direction
exigency;a pressing or urgent situation: 'the health-care exigency'
scudding;the act of moving along swiftly (as before a gale)
misreading;misinterpretation caused by inaccurate reading
quickie;hurried repair
sitting;the act of assuming a certain position (as for a photograph or portrait). 'he wanted his portrait painted but couldn't spare time for the sitting'
mlitt;a master's degree in literature
rapacity;reprehensible acquisitiveness. insatiable desire for wealth (personified as one of the deadly sins)
nervous breakdown;a severe or incapacitating emotional disorder
gospel truth;an unquestionable truth. 'his word was gospel'
spread;act of extending over a wider scope or expanse of space or time
step;the act of changing location by raising the foot and setting it down. 'he walked with unsteady steps'
deception;the act of deceiving
azotaemia;accumulation in the blood of nitrogen-bearing waste products (urea) that are usually excreted in the urine
crack up;a mental or physical breakdown
necrotizing enterocolitis;an acute inflammatory disease occurring in the intestines of premature infants. necrosis of intestinal tissue may follow
nonremittal;act of failing to meet a financial obligation
disfavour;the state of being out of favor. 'he is in disfavor with the king'
pretense;pretending with intention to deceive
cozenage;a fraudulent business scheme
breast cancer;cancer of the breast. one of the most common malignancies in women in the us
impoverishment;the state of having little or no money and few or no material possessions
common cold;a mild viral infection involving the nose and respiratory passages (but not the lungs). 'will they never find a cure for the common cold?'
locomotion;self-propelled movement
chronic pyelonephritis;pyelonephritis that develops slowly and can lead to renal failure if untreated. often associated with a kidney stone or with narrowing of the urinary passageways
squirm;the act of wiggling
rale;the crackling sound heard on auscultation when patients with respiratory diseases inhale
hatchet job;a malicious attack
chorioretinitis;inflammation of the choroid layer behind the retina
puzzle;a particularly baffling problem. 'that's a real puzzler'
license;freedom to deviate deliberately from normally applicable rules or practices (especially in behavior or speech)
juvenile diabetes;diabetes mellitus with an early onset
feverishness;a rise in the temperature of the body. frequently a symptom of infection
congestive heart failure;inability to pump enough blood to avoid congestion in the tissues
glossodynia exfoliativa;a superficial form of glossitis marked by irregular red patches on the tongue and sensitivity to hot or spicy food
rhetoric;loud and confused and empty talk. 'mere rhetoric'
well wishing;an expression of good will from one person to another. 'much hand-shaking and well-wishing'
lexical meaning;the meaning of a word that depends on the nonlinguistic concepts it is used to express
bulletin;a brief report especially an official statement issued for immediate publication or broadcast
ascendant;position or state of being dominant or in control: 'that idea was in the ascendant'
impertinence;an impudent statement
dow jones;an indicator of stock market prices. based on the share values of 30 leading companies listed on the new york stock exchange
window dressing;the decoration of shop windows
dmus;a doctor's degree in music
acrocyanosis;cyanosis of the extremities. can occur when a spasm of the blood vessels is caused by exposure to cold or by strong emotion
malathion poisoning;a toxic condition caused by inhaling or ingesting the insecticide malathion
pollution;the act of contaminating or polluting. including (either intentionally or accidentally) unwanted substances or factors
activeness;"the state of being active. 'his sphere of activity'. 'he is out of action'"
hepatitis non a non b;a viral hepatitis clinically indistinguishable from hepatitis b but caused by an rna virus
energy;a healthy capacity for vigorous activity. 'jogging works off my excess energy'. 'he seemed full of vim and vigor'
cut;a remark capable of wounding mentally. 'the unkindest cut of all'
oversight;a mistake resulting from inattention
humanisation;the act of making more humane
abnormalcy;"an abnormal condition"
dash;a quick run
sweet potato ring rot;disease of sweet potatoes in which roots are girdled by rings of dry rot
health;a healthy state of well-being
thank you;a conversational expression of gratitude
bachelor of laws;a three-year law degree
morning sickness;nausea early in the day. a characteristic symptom in the early months of pregnancy
hijack;seizure of a vehicle in transit either to rob it or divert it to an alternate destination
killing;the act of terminating a life
stain;an act that brings discredit to the person who does it. 'he made a huge blot on his copybook'
anemic hypoxia;hypoxia resulting from a decreased concentration of hemoglobin
retardation;the act of slowing down or falling behind
jump ball;(basketball) the way play begins or resumes when possession is disputed. an official tosses the ball up between two players who jump in an effort to tap it to a teammate
apology;a formal written defense of something you believe in strongly
affirmative pleading;any defensive pleading that affirms facts rather than merely denying the facts alleged by the plaintiff
rule;prescribed guide for conduct or action
forestalling;the act of preventing something by anticipating and disposing of it effectively
digression;wandering from the main path of a journey
genital herpes;an infection caused by herpes simplex virus type 2 (hsv-2) that is usually transmitted by sexual contact. marked by recurrent attacks of painful eruptions on the skin and mucous membranes of the genital area
melee;a noisy riotous fight
quick fix;hurried repair
nonmalignant neoplasm;a tumor that is not cancerous
backbone;a central cohesive source of support and stability: 'faith is his anchor'. 'he is the linchpin of this firm'
roughness;rowdy behavior
wish wash;nonsensical talk or writing
knavery;lack of honesty. acts of lying or cheating or stealing
commendation;an official award (as for bravery or service) usually given as formal public statement
gibe;an aggressive remark directed at a person like a missile and intended to have a telling effect. 'his parting shot was 'drop dead''. 'she threw shafts of sarcasm'. 'she takes a dig at me every chance she gets'
lepidophobia;a morbid fear of snakes
protocol;forms of ceremony and etiquette observed by diplomats and heads of state
despair;"a state in which everything seems wrong and will turn out badly. 'they were rescued from despair at the last minute'"
freedom of the seas;the right of merchant ships to travel freely in international waters
bigamy;the offense of having two or more wives or husbands living at the same time
refinement;a subtle difference in meaning
vaporisation;annihilation by vaporizing something
hyperlipaemia;a blood disorder characterized by the presence of excess lipids in the blood
overgrowth;excessive size. usually caused by excessive secretion of growth hormone from the pituitary gland
logjam;any stoppage attributable to unusual activity. 'the legislation ran into a logjam'
quadratic equation;an equation in which the highest power of an unknown quantity is a square
serving;the act of delivering a writ or summons upon someone. 'he accepted service of the subpoena'
aldosteronism;a condition caused by over-production of aldosterone
photogenic epilepsy;reflex epilepsy induced by a flickering light
misfeasance;doing a proper act in a wrongful or injurious manner
epilepsy;a disorder of the central nervous system characterized by loss of consciousness and convulsions
atactic abasia;abasia due to ataxia of the legs
heaving;the act of lifting something with great effort
wisecrack;witty remark
involutional depression;a major depressive episode associated with the climacteric
hemicrania;a severe recurring vascular headache. occur more frequently in women than men
displaced fracture;fracture in which the two ends of the broken bone are separated from one another
ducking;the act of submerging something
explosion;the terminal forced release of pressure built up during the occlusive phase of a stop consonant
thrombasthenia;a rare autosomal recessive disease in which the platelets do not produce clots in the normal way and hemorrhage results
symbolization;the use of symbols to convey meaning
decisive factor;a point or fact or remark that settles something conclusively
humiliation;depriving one of self-esteem
haymaker;a hard punch that renders the opponent unable to continue boxing
bending;the act of bending something
profession;affirmation of acceptance of some religion or faith. 'a profession of christianity'
graves;hyperthyroidism with protrusion of the eyeballs
fraud in law;fraud that is presumed from the circumstances although the one who commits it need not have had any evil intent
sedition;an illegal action inciting resistance to lawful authority and tending to cause the disruption or overthrow of the government
happening;"an event that happens"
precept;rule of personal conduct
jactitation;a false boast that can harm others. especially a false claim to be married to someone (formerly actionable at law)
shakeout;a financial condition that results in the elimination of marginally financed participants in an industry. 'they glutted the market in order to cause a shakeout of their competitors'
spending cut;the act of reducing spending
exploration;to travel for the purpose of discovery
hollow back;an abnormal inward (forward) curvature of the vertebral column
generalized anxiety disorder;an anxiety disorder characterized by free-floating anxiety and such symptoms as tension or sweating or trembling of light-headedness or irritability etc. a functional disorder (not organic)
contentedness;the state of being contented with your situation in life. 'he relaxed in sleepy contentedness'. 'they could read to their heart's content'
criminalism;the state of being a criminal
clawfoot;a deformity of the foot characterized by an abnormally high arch and hyperextension of the toes which gives the foot the appearance of a claw
notation;a comment (usually added to a text). 'his notes were appended at the end of the article'
observation;a remark expressing careful consideration
spill;the act of allowing a fluid to escape
strangulation;the act of suffocating by constricting the windpipe. 'no evidence that the choking was done by the accused'
scrubbing;the act of cleaning a surface by rubbing it with a brush and soap and water
claim;an assertion that something is true or factual. 'his claim that he was innocent'. 'evidence contradicted the government's claims'
hurting;a symptom of some physical hurt or disorder. 'the patient developed severe pain and distension'
constructive fraud;comprises all acts or omissions or concealments involving breach of equitable or legal duty or trust or confidence
pilgrim s journey;a journey to a sacred place
labor market;the market in which workers compete for jobs and employers compete for workers
heist;(slang) the act of stealing
deterrence;a communication that makes you afraid to try something
anchor;a central cohesive source of support and stability: 'faith is his anchor'. 'he is the linchpin of this firm'
barrenness;the state (usually of a woman) of having no children or being unable to have children
delineation;a graphic or vivid verbal description. 'too often the narrative was interrupted by long word pictures'. 'the author gives a depressing picture of life in poland'
rope burn;abrasion (usually on the hands) caused by friction from a rope
amendment;a statement that is added to or revises or improves a proposal or document (a bill or constitution etc.)
subsistence;a means of surviving. 'farming is a hard means of subsistence'
case;"an occurrence of something. 'it was a case of bad judgment'. 'another instance occurred yesterday'. 'but there is always the famous example of the smiths'"
worrying;the act of moving something by repeated tugs or pushes. 'vigorous worrying finally loosened the saw'
whirling;the act of rotating in a circle or spiral
show;pretending that something is the case in order to make a good impression. 'they try to keep up appearances'. 'that ceremony is just for show'
hike;a long walk usually for exercise or pleasure
focal epilepsy;epilepsy in which the attack begins with an isolated disturbance of cerebral function
alveolitis;inflammation of the alveoli in the lungs caused by inhaling dust. with repeated exposure the condition may become chronic
scope;the state of the environment in which a situation exists. 'you can't do that in a university setting'
sterilization;the procedure of making some object free of live bacteria of other microorganisms (usually by heat or chemical means)
parachuting;descent with a parachute
advancement;encouragement of the progress or growth or acceptance of something
bend;the act of bending something
preview;an advertisement consisting of short scenes from a motion picture that will appear in the near future
simplification;the act of reducing complexity
rhythm;the arrangement of spoken words alternating stressed and unstressed elements. 'the rhythm of frost's poetry'
myoclonus epilepsy;epilepsy characterized by clonus of muscle groups and progressive mental deterioration and genetic origin
con;a swindle in which you cheat at gambling or persuade a person to buy worthless property
defacement;damaging the appearance or surface of something
recess;a state of abeyance or suspended business
decimalization;the act of changing to a decimal system. 'the decimalization of british currency'
alibi;a defense of some offensive behavior or some failure to keep a promise etc.. 'he kept finding excuses to stay'. 'every day he had a new alibi for not getting a job'. 'his transparent self-justification was unacceptable'
substance;"what a communication that is about something is about"
advert;a public promotion of some product or service
clear sailing;easy unobstructed progress: 'after we solved that problem the rest was plain sailing'
mdiv;a master's degree in religion
sleepiness;a very sleepy state. 'sleepiness causes many driving accidents'
veiled accusation;an accusation that is understood without needing to be spoken
metrification;the act of changing from imperial units of measurement to metric units: meters, grams, seconds
plagiarism;the act of plagiarizing. taking someone's words or ideas as if they were your own
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis;thickening of tissue in the motor tracts of the lateral columns and anterior horns of the spinal cord. results in progressive muscle atrophy that starts in the limbs
topsy turvydom;a state of extreme confusion and disorder
routemarch;a long training march for troops
baccalaureate;an academic degree conferred on someone who has successfully completed undergraduate studies
regional enteritis;a serious chronic and progressive inflammation of the colon producing frequent bouts of diarrhea with abdominal pain and nausea and fever and weight loss
load;an onerous or difficult concern. 'the burden of responsibility'. 'that's a load off my mind'
epidemic encephalitis;an encephalitis that was epidemic between 1915 and 1926. symptoms include paralysis of the extrinsic eye muscle and extreme muscular weakness
vagrancy;the state of wandering from place to place. having no permanent home or means of livelihood
lexical database;a database of information about words
hibernation;the act of retiring into inactivity. 'he emerged from his hibernation to make his first appearance in several years'
parody;a composition that imitates somebody's style in a humorous way
approach;the act of drawing spatially closer to something. 'the hunter's approach scattered the geese'
ischemic hypoxia;hypoxia resulting from slow peripheral circulation (such as follows congestive cardiac failure)
marching;the act of marching. walking with regular steps (especially in a procession of some kind). 'it was a long march'. 'we heard the sound of marching'
wage claim;the wage demanded from management for workers by their union representatives
nullification;the act of nullifying. making null and void. counteracting the effect or force of something
snafu;an acronym often used by soldiers in world war ii: situation normal all fucked up
conundrum;a difficult problem
sectionalization;separation by the creation of a boundary that divides or keeps apart
anaclitic depression;severe and progressive depression in infants who lose their mother and do not get a suitable substitute
aplasia;failure of some tissue or organ to develop
cardiac arrhythmia;an abnormal rate of muscle contractions in the heart
specialization;the act of specializing. making something suitable for a special purpose
infliction;an act causing pain or damage
sass;an impudent or insolent rejoinder. 'don't give me any of your sass'
cancroid;the most common form of skin cancer
putout;an out resulting from a fielding play (not a strikeout)
bursitis;inflammation of a bursa. frequently in the shoulder
defection;the state of having rejected your religious beliefs
tubercle;a swelling that is the characteristic lesion of tuberculosis
omission;a mistake resulting from neglect
impeachability;the state of being liable to impeachment
change of color;an act that change the light that something reflects
swearing;swearing to the truth of a statement. to lie under oath is to become subject to prosecution for perjury
lesson;the significance of a story or event. 'the moral of the story is to love thy neighbor'
shouting;encouragement in the form of cheers from spectators. 'it's all over but the shouting'
pretense;the act of pretending
justification;a statement in explanation of some action or belief
testicular cancer;malignant tumor of the testis. usually occurring in older men
belly laugh;a joke that seems extremely funny
fetishism;sexual arousal resulting from handling a fetish (or a specific part of the body other than the sexual organs)
transmission control protocol;a protocol developed for the internet to get data from one network device to another. 'tcp uses a retransmission strategy to insure that data will not be lost in transmission'
blastomycosis;any of several infections of the skin or mucous membrane caused by blastomyces
rinderpest;an acute infectious viral disease of cattle (usually fatal). characterized by fever and diarrhea and inflammation of mucous membranes
mastication;biting and grinding food in your mouth so it becomes soft enough to swallow
tularemia;disease of rodents (especially rabbits and squirrels) and sometimes transmitted to humans by ticks or flies or by handling infected animals
expansion;adding information or detail
connectedness;the state of being connected. 'the connection between church and state is inescapable'
blasphemy;blasphemous behavior
toothache;an ache localized in a tooth
anaemia;a lack of vitality
infringement;a crime less serious than a felony
startup;the act of setting in operation. 'repeated shutdowns and startups are expensive'
masse;a shot in billiards made by hitting the cue ball with the cue held nearly vertically. the cue ball spins around another ball before hitting the object ball
cookery;the act of preparing something (as food) by the application of heat
eructation;(of volcanos) pouring out fumes or lava
thread blight;a disease of tropical woody plants(cocoa or tea or citrus)
blue sky law;a state law regulating the sale of securities in an attempt to control the sale of securities in fraudulent enterprises
crack;(informal) a chance to do something. 'he wanted a shot at the champion'
hyperadrenocorticism;a glandular disorder caused by excessive cortisol
cohesiveness;the state of cohering
backhand stroke;a return made with the back of the hand facing the direction of the stroke
picture;a situation treated as an observable object. 'the political picture is favorable' or 'the religious scene in england has changed in the last century'
cyanosis;a bluish discoloration of the skin and mucous membranes. a sign that oxygen in the blood is dangerously diminished (as in carbon monoxide poisoning)
hepatitis b;an acute form of viral hepatitis caused by a dna virus and transmitted by sexual contact or ingestion of contaminated blood or other bodily fluids
breach of the covenant of warranty;a failure of the seller's guarantee of good title
megaloblastic anemia;anemia characterized by many large immature and dysfunctional red blood cells (megaloblasts) in the bone marrow. associated with pernicious anemia
instance;"an occurrence of something. 'it was a case of bad judgment'. 'another instance occurred yesterday'. 'but there is always the famous example of the smiths'"
infirmity;the state of being weak in health or body (especially from old age)
good condition;good physical condition. being in shape or in condition
porterage;the transportation of burdens by porters
untidiness;the condition of being untidy
insistence;the state of urgently demanding notice or attention. 'the press of business matters'
bluff;pretense that your position is stronger than it really is. 'his bluff succeeded in getting him accepted'
bsarch;a bachelor's degree in architecture
stunt flying;the performance of stunts while in flight in an aircraft
disfigurement;damaging the appearance or surface of something
structural formula;an expanded molecular formula showing the arrangement of atoms within the molecule
admixture;the act of mixing. 'paste made by a mixture of flour and water'
testimony;an assertion offering firsthand authentication of a fact. 'according to his own testimony he can't do it'
peritonitis;inflammation of the peritoneum
burning;pain that feels hot as if it were on fire
spectacle;a blunder that makes you look ridiculous. used in the phrase 'make a spectacle of' yourself
dakoity;(in india and burma) robbery by a gang of armed dacoits
white plague;involving the lungs with progressive wasting of the body
commendation;a message expressing a favorable opinion. 'words of approval seldom passed his lips'
desolation;a bleak and desolate atmosphere
pancytopenia;a disorder characterized by an abnormal reduction in the blood of erythrocytes and leukocytes and blood platelets
cabbala;an esoteric or occult matter that is traditionally secret
transfiguration;the act of transforming so as to exalt or glorify
distinguished service order;a british military decoration for special service in action
strut;a proud stiff pompous gait
crossing;traveling across
inflection;the act of bending something
contract;a binding agreement between two or more persons especially one enforceable by law
murmur;an abnormal sound of the heart. sometimes a sign of abnormal heart function
husking;the removal of covering
enticement;something tempting or enticing
nyctalopia;inability to see clearly in dim light. due to a deficiency of vitamin a or to a retinal disorder
special pleading;a pleading that alleges new facts in avoidance of the opposing allegations
lethargy;a state of comatose torpor
weakness;the condition of being financially weak. 'the weakness of the dollar against the yen'
cascading menu;(computer science) a secondary menu that appears while you are holding the cursor over an item on the primary menu
clowning;a comic incident or series of incidents
malignant tumor;a tumor that is malignant and tends to spread to other parts of the body
lockage;passage through a lock
curriculum;a course of academic studies. 'he was admitted to a new program at the university'
sneer;a contemptuous or scornful remark
innuendo;an indirect (and usually malicious) implication
harm;any physical damage to the body
chop;a tennis return made with a downward motion that puts backspin on the ball
spank;a slap with the flat of the hand
despotism;dominance through threat of punishment and violence
immunosuppression;lowering the body's normal immune response to invasion by foreign substances
doctor of dental medicine;a doctor's degree in dental medicine
cachet;an indication of approved or superior status
merging;the act of joining together as one. 'the merging of the two groups occurred quickly'. 'there was no meeting of minds'
first base;the initial stage in accomplishing something. 'we didn't get to first base with that approach'
about face;a reversal in attitude or principle or point of view: 'an about-face on foreign policy'
sanitization;making something sanitary (free of germs) as by sterilizing
election fraud;misrepresentation or alteration of the true results of an election
cooking;the act of preparing something (as food) by the application of heat
complex absence;petit mal seizure accompanied by other abnormalities (atonia or automatisms or vasomotor changes)
home rule;self-government in local matters by a city or county that is part of a national government
let;a serve that strikes the net before falling into the receiver's court. the ball must be served again
ovarian pregnancy;ectopic pregnancy in the ovary
welfare;the state of being happy and healthy and prosperous. 'the town was finally on the upbeat after our recent troubles'
devilry;wicked and cruel behavior
odyssey;a long wandering and eventful journey
menu;(computer science) a list of options available to a computer user
negative stimulation;(informal) something causing antagonism or loss of interest
grace;"a state of sanctification by god"
decimation;destroying or killing a great proportion of the population (literally every tenth person)
roundworm;infections of the skin or nails caused by fungi and appearing as itching circular patches
transfer;the act of transfering something from one form to another. 'the transfer of the music from record to tape suppressed much of the background noise'
vocational rehabilitation;providing training in a specific trade with the aim of gaining employment
chill;a sensation of cold that often marks the start of an infection and the development of a fever
acanthosis;an abnormal but benign thickening of the prickle-cell layer of the skin (as in psoriasis)
trench fever;marked by pain in muscles and joints and transmitted by lice
cheilitis;inflammation and cracking of the skin of the lips
indian tick fever;a disease (common in india and around the mediterranean area) caused by a rickettsia that is transmitted to humans by a reddish brown tick (ixodid) that lives on dogs and other mammals
circumduction;a circular movement of a limb or eye
intemperance;consumption of alcoholic drinks
quinsy;a painful inflammation of the tonsils and surrounding tissues
acoustic aphasia;an impairment in understanding spoken language that is not attributable to hearing loss
gimpiness;disability of walking due to crippling of the legs or feet
stokes adams syndrome;recurrent sudden attacks of unconsciousness caused by impaired conduction of the impulse that regulates the heartbeat
breach of trust;violation (either through fraud or negligence) by a trustee of a duty that equity requires of him
object lesson;punishment intended as a warning to others. 'they decided to make an example of him'
sanction;formal and explicit approval
tarriance;the act of lingering
atelectasis;collapse of an expanded lung (especially in infants). also failure of pulmonary alveoli to expand at birth
leaf cast;a disease of conifers causing the needles to fall
middle ear deafness;hearing loss due to problems with the bones of the middle ear
statutory offense;crimes created by statutes and not by common law
chafe;soreness and warmth caused by friction. 'he had a nasty chafe on his knee'
punt;kicking in which the football is dropped from the hands and kicked before it touches the ground
tomato streak;disease of a wide range of plants (tomatoes. potatoes. peas) resulting from a mixed infection of potato and tomato mosaic
throwaway;an advertisement (usually printed on a page or in a leaflet) intended for wide distribution. 'he mailed the circular to all subscribers'
bearing false witness;criminal offense of making false statements under oath
dichotomisation;the act of dividing into two sharply different categories
stifling;forceful prevention: 'suppression of liberal newspapers'. 'quelling of the revolution'
frenzy;state of violent mental agitation
good by;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
prosperity;the condition of prospering. having good fortune
startup;the act of starting a new operation or practice. 'he opposed the inauguration of fluoridation'. 'the startup of the new factory was delayed by strikes'
stripe blight;a disease of oats
bank failure;the inability of a bank to meet its credit obligations
malaprop;the unintentional misuse of a word by confusion with one that sounds similar
frame of mind;a temporary psychological state
margin call;a demand by a broker that a customer deposit enough to bring his margin up to the minimum requirement
eruption;(of volcanos) pouring out fumes or lava
sting;a swindle in which you cheat at gambling or persuade a person to buy worthless property
introduction;the act of beginning something new. 'they looked forward to the debut of their new product line'
type i diabetes;diabetes mellitus with an early onset
tessellation;adorning with mosaic
torture;the act of distorting something so it seems to mean something it was not intended to mean
unhealthiness;a state in which you are unable to function normally and without pain
asphyxia;a condition in which insufficient or no oxygen and carbon dioxide are exchanged on a ventilatory basis. caused by choking or drowning or electric shock or poison gas
infarction;localized necrosis resulting from obstruction of the blood supply
equation;a mathematical statement that two expressions are equal
injustice;an unjust act
imperativeness;the state of urgently demanding notice or attention. 'the press of business matters'
reply;a statement (either spoken or written) that is made in reply to a question or request or criticism or accusation. 'i waited several days for his answer'. 'he wrote replies to several of his critics'
coronary artery disease;sclerosis of the arterial walls
venus s curse;a communicable disease transmitted by sexual intercourse or genital contact
determinant;a determining or causal element or factor: 'education is an important determinant of one's outlook onlife'
pimple;a small inflamed elevation of the skin. a pustule or papule. common symptom in acne
lick;(boxing) a blow with the fist
sin;an act that is regarded by theologians as a transgression of god's will
thalassemia;an inherited form of anemia caused by faulty synthesis of hemoglobin
movement;the act of changing the location of something. 'the movement of cargo onto the vessel'
living death;a state of constant misery
gaucherie;a socially awkward or tactless act
dislodgment;forced removal from a position of advantage
pruning;the act of trimming a plant
alkali poisoning;poisoning resulting from the ingestion of an alkali compound (as lye or ammonia)
reformation;assembling again
victoria cross;a british military decoration for gallantry
working out;developing in intricate and painstaking detail
cost cutting;the act of cutting costs
queue;(in information processing) an ordered list of tasks to be performed or messages to be transmitted
corner kick;a free kick from the corner awarded to the other side when a player has sent the ball behind his own goal line
dash;the act of moving with great haste. 'he made a dash for the door'
exposure;the state of being vulnerable or exposed. 'exposure to ridicule' or 'vulnerability to litigation'
poliomyelitis;an acute viral disease marked by inflammation of nerve cells of the brain stem and spinal cord
altering;the sterilization of an animal
writer s cramp;muscular spasms of thumb and forefinger while writing with a pen or pencil
pid;inflammation of the female pelvic organs (especially the fallopian tubes) caused by infection by any of several microorganisms (chiefly gonococci and chlamydia). symptoms are abdominal pain and fever and foul-smelling vaginal discharge
defense;the justification for some act or belief. 'he offered a persuasive defense of the theory'
ftp;(computer science) protocol that allows users to copy files between their local system and any system they can reach on the network
shuffling;walking with a slow dragging motion without lifting your feet
felon;a purulent infection at the end of a finger or toe in the area surrounding the nail
decrease;the act of decreasing or reducing something
master of science in engineering;a master's degree in engineering
hibernation;the torpid or resting state in which some animals pass the winter
soar;the act of rising upward into the air
petition;a formal message requesting something submitted to an authority
nutation;the act of nodding the head
kidnapping;the unlawful act of capturing and carrying away a person against their will and holding them in false imprisonment
toxaemia;blood poisoning caused by toxic substances in the blood
quelling;forceful prevention: 'suppression of liberal newspapers'. 'quelling of the revolution'
acute glossitis;glossitis resulting from injury or infection and characterized by swelling and pain
inconceivability;the state of being impossible to conceive
aberration;an aberrant state or condition
maple syrup urine disease;an inherited disorder of metabolism in which the urine has a odor characteristic of maple syrup. if untreated it can lead to mental retardation and death in early childhood
formula;a representation of a substance using symbols for its constituent elements
operation;the state of being in effect or being operative. 'that rule is no longer in operation'
doctor of optometry;a doctor's degree in optometry
cryoanaesthesia;insensibility resulting from cold
eclat;enthusiastic approval. 'the book met with modest acclaim'. 'he acknowledged the plaudits of the crowd'. 'they gave him more eclat than he really deserved'
credit crunch;a state in which there is a short supply of cash to lend to businesses and consumers
parimutuel;betting where winners share the total amount wagered
flub;an embarrassing mistake
mediterranean anemia;an inherited form of anemia caused by faulty synthesis of hemoglobin
rupture;the act of making a sudden noisy break
tumidness;slight swelling
artsd;an honorary arts degree
posthitis;inflammation of the foreskin of the penis. usually caused by bacterial infection
determent;a communication that makes you afraid to try something
any and all bid;a takeover bid where the acquirer offers to buy any and all shares outstanding
amyloidosis;a disorder characterized by deposit of amyloid in organs or tissues. often secondary to chronic rheumatoid arthritis or tuberculosis or multiple myeloma
tarsitis;inflammation of the eyelid
framboesia;an infectious tropical disease resembling syphillis in its early stages. marked by red skin eruptions and ulcerating lesions
hepatitis;inflammation of the liver caused by a virus or a toxin
jam;informal terms for a difficult situation. 'he got into a terrible fix'. 'he made a muddle of his marriage'
villainy;a treacherous or vicious act
canvass;the setting for a narrative or fictional or dramatic account. 'the crowded canvas of history.' 'the movie demanded a dramatic canvas of sound'
construal;an interpretation of the meaning of something
piracy;the act of falsely representing the ideas or work of others as your own
ballooning;flying in a balloon
fa la;meaningless syllables in the refrain of a part-song
non vult;(criminal law) an answer of 'no contest' by a defendant who does not admit guilt but that subjects him to conviction
pharyngitis;inflammation of the fauces and pharynx
sanitizing;making something sanitary (free of germs) as by sterilizing
chicanery;the use of tricks to deceive someone (usually to extract money from them)
fratricide;the act of murdering your own brother or sister
tilt;pitching dangerously to one side
subdata base;a subset of data in a database that are used in a specific application
gouty arthritis;a painful inflammation of the big toe and foot caused by defects in uric acid metabolism resulting in deposits of the acid and its salts in the blood and joints
metroptosis;prolapse of the uterus
epitome;a standard or typical example. 'he is the prototype of good breeding'. 'he provided america with an image of the good father'
joggle;a slight irregular shaking motion
acrophobia;a morbid fear of great heights
organic law;law determining the fundamental political principles of a government
hypericism;a severe dermatitis of herbivorous domestic animals attributable to photosensitivity from eating saint john's wort
failure;lack of success
tropical sore;leishmaniasis of the skin. characterized by ulcerative skin lesions
crib death;sudden and unexpected death of an apparently healthy infant during sleep
furuncle;a painful sore with a hard pus-filled core
declaration;emphatic or explicit statement
expanding upon;adding information or detail
craps;a gambling game using two dice
deathblow;the blow that kills (usually mercifully)
courtesy;a courteous or respectful or considerate remark
cold sore;caused by herpes simplex virus type 1 (hvs-1)
bilateral contract;a contract involving mutual promises (each part is both promisor and promisee)
dysplasia;abnormal development (of organs or cells) or an abnormal structure resulting from such growth
forehand;a return made with the palm of the hand facing the direction of the stroke (as in tennis or badminton or squash)
sleep disorder;a disturbance of the normal sleep pattern
about turn;act of pivoting 180 degrees, especially in a military formation
whiplash;an injury to the neck (the cervical vertebrae) resulting from rapid acceleration or deceleration (as in an automobile accident)
aggrandisement;the act of increasing the wealth or prestige or power or scope of something
fundamental law;law determining the fundamental political principles of a government
acute renal failure;renal failure associated with burns or other trauma, or with acute infection or obstruction of the urinary tract
integrated logistic support;the pooling of specific resources by subscribing nations for the support of some joint operation
release;an announcement distributed to members of the press in order to supplement or replace an oral presentation
theme;the subject matter of a conversation or discussion. 'he didn't want to discuss that subject'. 'it was a very sensitive topic'. 'his letters were always on the theme of love'
transformation;the act of transforming. 'a photograph is a translation of a scene onto a two-dimensional surface'
pervaporation;the concentration of a colloidal solution whose colloid will not pass through a semipermeable membrane. solution is placed in a bag of the membrane and the solvent is evaporated off
foiling;an act of hindering someone's plans or efforts
fix;an exemption granted after influence (e.g., money) is brought to bear. 'collusion resulted in tax fixes for gamblers'
wilt;causing to become limp or drooping
covetousness;reprehensible acquisitiveness. insatiable desire for wealth (personified as one of the deadly sins)
colour blindness;genetic inability to distinguish differences in hue
incendiarism;malicious burning to destroy property. 'the british term for arson is fire-raising'
villoma;a benign epithelial tumor forming a rounded mass
easy going;easy unobstructed progress: 'after we solved that problem the rest was plain sailing'
format;the organization of information according to preset specifications (usually for computer processing)
dressing;processes in the conversion of rough hides into leather
zoonosis;any inadvertent infection of humans by an animal pathogen
opinion;a message expressing a belief about something. 'his opinions appeared frequently on the editorial page'
throw;(informal) a single chance or instance. 'he couldn't afford __50 a throw'
locomotor ataxia;syphilis of the spinal cord
spur;a verbalization that encourages you to attempt something
winding;the act of winding or twisting. 'he put the key in the old clock and gave it a good wind'
parity check;a system of checking for errors in computer functioning
chorea;chorea in dogs
paratyphoid;any of a variety of infectious intestinal diseases resembling typhoid fever
wheal;a raised mark on the skin (as produced by a blow)
sclerodema;a skin disease marked by hardening of the tissue usually beginning in the face
liquidation;the murder of a competitor
yaws;an infectious tropical disease resembling syphillis in its early stages. marked by red skin eruptions and ulcerating lesions
ketosis;an abnormal increase of ketone bodies in the blood as in diabetes mellitus
smacking;the act of smacking something
colpoxerosis;a condition in which the vagina is unusually dry
seaworthiness;fitness to traverse the seas
petit mal epilepsy;epilepsy characterized by paroxysmal attacks of brief clouding of consciousness (a possible other abnormalities)
negative reinforcing stimulus;a reinforcing stimulus whose removal serves to decrease the likelihood of the response that produced it
silicosis;a lung disease caused by inhaling particles of silica or quartz or slate
conflux;a flowing together (as of rivers)
case in point;"an example that is used to justify similar occurrences at a later time"
etymologizing;(historical linguistics) an explanation of the historical origins of a word or phrase
tax credit;a direct reduction in tax liability (not dependent on the taxpayer's tax bracket)
falsehood;a willful act of falsifying
achievability;the state of being achievable
interpretation;an explanation resulting from interpreting something
hooey;senseless talk. 'don't give me that stuff'
negative stimulus;a stimulus with undesirable consequences
hypermenorrhea;abnormally heavy or prolonged menstruation. can be a symptom of uterine tumors and can lead to anemia if prolonged
containment;the act of containing something
busyness;the state of being or appearing to be actively engaged in an activity: 'they manifested all the busyness of a pack of beavers'
sickle cell anemia;a congenital form of anemia occurring mostly in blacks. characterized by abnormal blood cells having a crescent shape
otalgia;an ache localized in the middle or inner ear
maximization;the act of maximizing something
endemic;a disease that is constantly present to a greater or lesser degree in people of a certain class or in people living in a particular location
hypertext transfer protocol;a protocol (utilizing tcp) to transfer hypertext requests and information between servers and browsers
infantile autism;a rare but serious syndrome of childhood characterized by withdrawal and lack of social responsiveness or interest in others and serious linguistic deficits. 'there is considerable dispute among specialists concerning infantile autism'
induction;stimulation that calls up (evokes or induces or elicits) a particular class of behaviors
coloring;the act of of process of changing the color of something
massacre;the wanton killing of many people
breaking off;an instance of breaking off suddenly
aberrance;an aberrant state or condition
carbon monoxide poisoning;a toxic condition that results from inhaling and absorbing carbon monoxide gas. 'carbon monoxide combines with hemoglobin and displaces oxygen in the blood'
roguishness;reckless or malicious behavior that causes discomfort or annoyance in others
mixture;the act of mixing. 'paste made by a mixture of flour and water'
defalcation;the fraudulent appropriation of funds or property entrusted to your care but actually owned by someone else
disforestation;the removal of trees
somnolence;a very sleepy state. 'sleepiness causes many driving accidents'
amble;a leisurely walk (usually in some public place)
fanconi s anemia;a rare congenital anemia characterized by pancytopenia and hypoplasia of the bone marrow
malacia;a state of abnormal softening of tissue
wasting disease;involving the lungs with progressive wasting of the body
mending;the act of putting something in working order again
immolation;killing as a sacrificial act
rejection;the state of being rejected
demand;"a condition requiring relief. 'she satified his need for affection'. 'god has no need of men to accomplish his work'. 'there is a demand for jobs'"
plagiarization;the act of falsely representing the ideas or work of others as your own
giddiness;a reeling sensation. feeling about to fall
colpocele;hernia projecting into the vagina
carditis;inflammation of the heart
leapfrog;advancing as if in the game of leapfrog
move;the act of changing your location from one place to another. 'police controlled the motion of the crowd'. 'the movement of people from the farms to the cities'. 'his move put him directly in my path'
evil;morally objectionable behavior
numbers racket;an illegal daily lottery
deaf muteness;congenital deafness that results in inability to speak
dependance;"lack of independence or self-sufficiency"
fulmination;the act of exploding with noise and violence. 'his fulminations frightened the horses'
step;a sequence of foot movements that make up a particular dance. 'he taught them the waltz step'
complaint;(civil law) the first pleading of the plaintiff setting out the facts on which the claim for relief is based
lust;self-indulgent sexual desire (personified as one of the deadly sins)
exclusion;the state of being excluded
note;a comment (usually added to a text). 'his notes were appended at the end of the article'
colon cancer;a malignant tumor of the colon. early symptom is bloody stools
freshness;an alert and refreshed state
squeamishness;a mild state of nausea
twirl;the act of rotating rapidly. 'he gave the crank a spin'. 'it broke off after much twisting'
condition;"a condition or state at a particular time: 'a condition (or state) of disrepair'. 'the current status of the arms negotiations'"
tuberculoid leprosy;leprosy characterized by tumors in the skin and cutaneous nerves
acceptation;acceptance as true or valid
nonketoacidosis prone;diabetes mellitus that develops in adults. can be precipitated by obesity or severe stress or menopause or other factors
depicted object;"something (a person or object or scene) selected by an artist or photographer for graphic representation. 'a moving picture of a train is more dramatic than a still picture of the same subject'"
approximation;an imprecise or incomplete account. 'newspapers gave only an approximation of the actual events'
potato wart;fungous disease causing dark warty spongy excrescences in the eyes of potato tubers
declaration;unsworn statement in a legal transaction
transmutation;an act that changes the form or character or substance of something
immanence;the state of being within or not going beyond a given domain
tarradiddle;a trivial lie. 'he told a fib about eating his spinach'. 'how can i stop my child from telling stories?'
carry;the act of carrying something
rehabilitation;the restoration of someone to a useful place in society
neuralgia;acute spasmodic pain along the course of one or more nerves
expenditure;the act of consuming something
chickenshit;a false statement that is considered to indicate timidity or fear
pertussis;a disease of the respiratory mucous membrane
price;a reward for helping to catch a criminal. 'the cattle thief has a price on his head'
flawlessness;"the state of being without a flaw or defect"
save;the act of preventing the opposition from scoring (in sports): 'the goalie made a brilliant save'. 'the relief pitcher got credit for a save'
ground rule;a special rule (as in baseball) dealing with situations that arise due to the nature of the playing grounds
pyrexia;a rise in the temperature of the body. frequently a symptom of infection
sleepwalking;walking by a person who is asleep
heart failure;inability of the heart to pump enough blood to sustain normal bodily functions
fortune;"your overall circumstances or condition in life (including everything that happens to you): 'whatever my fortune may be'. 'deserved a better fate'. 'has a happy lot'. 'the luck of the irish'. 'a victim of circumstances'. 'success that was her portion'"
clearance sale;a sale to reduce inventory
uproar;a state of commotion and loud confused noise
premenstrual syndrome;a syndrome that occurs in many women from 2 to 14 days before the onset of menstruation
dermatitis;inflammation of the skin
topsy turvyness;a state of extreme confusion and disorder
waver;the act of pausing uncertainly. 'there was a hesitation in his speech'
shaking palsy;a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterized by tremor and impaired muscular coordination
affliction;a state of great suffering and distress due to adversity
directive;a pronouncement encouraging or banning some activity. 'the boss loves to send us directives'
goose skin;symptom of coldness
supersedure;act of replacing one person or thing by another especially one held to be superior
input;"any stimulating information or event. acts to arouse action"
subacute bacterial endocarditis;a chronic bacterial infection of the endocardium and heart valves. symptoms develop slowly
eternal sleep;euphemisms for death (based on an analogy between lying in a bed and in a tomb). 'she was laid to rest beside her husband'. 'they had to put their family pet to sleep'
poaching;cooking in simmering water
encephalitis lethargica;an encephalitis that was epidemic between 1915 and 1926. symptoms include paralysis of the extrinsic eye muscle and extreme muscular weakness
thanks;an acknowledgment of appreciation
amoebic dysentery;inflammation of the intestines caused by endamoeba histolytica. usually acquired by ingesting food or water contaminated with feces. characterized by severe diarrhea
spec;a detailed description of design criteria for a piece of work
hernia;rupture in smooth muscle tissue through which a bodily structure protrudes
copout;a failure to face some difficulty squarely
acanthosis nigricans;a skin disease characterized by dark wart-like patches in the body folds. can be benign or malignant
swinging;changing location by moving back and forth
deterrent example;punishment intended as a warning to others. 'they decided to make an example of him'
wernicke s aphasia;aphasia characterized by fluent but meaningless speech and severe impairment of the ability understand spoken or written words
debt;the state of owing money. 'he is badly in debt'
pip;a minor nonspecific ailment
break;a sudden dash. 'he made a break for the open door'
running;the act of running. traveling on foot at a fast pace. 'he broke into a run'. 'his daily run keeps him fit'
attitude;a theatrical pose created for effect. 'the actor struck just the right attitude'
gummosis;disease of citrus trees caused by the fungus phytophthora citrophthora
sloth;apathy and inactivity in the practice of virtue (personified as one of the deadly sins)
jab;a sharp hand gesture (resembling a blow). 'he warned me with a jab with his finger'. 'he made a thrusting motion with his fist'
information bulletin;a bulletin containing the latest information
grand larceny;larceny of property having a value greater than some amount (the amount varies by locale)
chestnut;a small horny callus on the inner surface of a horse's leg
good afternoon;a conventional expression of greeting or farewell
trespass on the case;an action brought to recover damages from a person whose actions have resulted indirectly in injury or loss. 'a person struck by a log as it was thrown onto a road could maintain trespass against the thrower but one who was hurt by stumbling over it could maintain and action on the case'
abetment;the verbal act of urging on
subscription;agreement expressed by (or as if expressed by) signing your name
scald;a burn cause by hot liquid or steam
flatulency;a state of excessive gas in the alimentary canal
debarment;the state of being debarred (excluded from enjoying certain possessions or rights or practices)
aspergillosis;an opportunistic infection by a fungus of the genus aspergillus. characterized by inflammation and lesions of the ear and other organs
communicable disease;a disease that can be communicated from one person to another
juvenile onset diabetes;diabetes mellitus with an early onset
numbers game;an illegal daily lottery
chronic gastritis;persistent gastritis can be a symptom of a gastric ulcer or pernicious anemia or stomach cancer or other disorders
induced abortion;a deliberate termination of pregnancy
chlorosis;iron deficiency anemia in young women. characterized by weakness and menstrual disturbances and a green color to the skin
furring;a furlike coating of matter as on the tongue
takeoff;a composition that imitates somebody's style in a humorous way
rising trot;the rider rises from the saddle every second stride
crescent cell anemia;a congenital form of anemia occurring mostly in blacks. characterized by abnormal blood cells having a crescent shape
reinforcer;(psychology) a stimulus that strengthens or weakens the behavior that produced it
syllabification;forming or dividing words into syllables
run;a regular trip. 'the ship made its run in record time'
price list;a listing of prices for different goods or services
helplessness;the state of needing help from something
fraud in fact;actual deceit. concealing something or making a false representation with an evil intent to cause injury to another
infectious mononucleosis;an acute disease characterized by fever and swollen lymph nodes. some believe it can be transmitted by kissing
rhinotracheitis;an respiratory infection of the nose and throat in cattle
whoredom;offering sexual intercourse for pay
forgery;criminal falsification by making or altering an instrument with intent to defraud
collapse;an abrupt failure of function or health
icterus;yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes caused by an accumulation of bile pigment (bilirubin) in the blood. can be a symptom of gallstones or liver infection or anemia
rust;a reddish-brown discoloration of leaves and stems caused by a rust fungus
peace;a treaty to cease hostilities. 'peace came on november 11th'
portage;carrying boats and supplies overland
necrology;a notice of someone's death. usually includes a short biography
blister blight;a disease of tea plants
agency;the state of being in action or exerting power. 'the agency of providence'. 'she has free agency'
anxiety reaction;an anxiety disorder characterized by free-floating anxiety and such symptoms as tension or sweating or trembling of light-headedness or irritability etc. a functional disorder (not organic)
toss;the act of flipping a coin
natural state;"a wild primitive state untouched by civilization. 'he lived in the wild'. 'they tried to preserve nature as they found it'"
inclusion;the act of including
description;a statement that represents something in words
nearsightedness;(ophthalmology) eyesight abnormality resulting from the eye's faulty refractive ability
harvest;the consequence of an effort or activity. 'they gathered a harvest of examples'. 'a harvest of love'
osteosarcoma;malignant bone tumor. most common in children and young adults where it tends to affect the femur
slovenliness;untidiness in personal appearance
heat exhaustion;a condition marked by dizziness and nausea and weakness caused by depletion of body fluids and electrolytes
remedy;act of correcting an error or a fault or an evil
strife;lack of agreement or harmony
perfidy;an act of deliberate betrayal
block;the act of blocking someone's path with your body (as in football). 'he threw a rolling block into the line backer'
rummage sale;a sale of donated articles
surprise;the act of surprising someone
bachelor s degree;an academic degree conferred on someone who has successfully completed undergraduate studies
expectedness;the state of being commonly observed
grafting;the act of grafting something onto something else
order of the purple heart;a us military decoration awarded to any member of the armed forces who is wounded in action
throw;the throwing of an object in order to determine an outcome randomly. 'he risked his fortune on a throw of the dice'
constitutional;a regular walk taken as a form of exercise
upbeat;the state of being happy and healthy and prosperous. 'the town was finally on the upbeat after our recent troubles'
censure;harsh criticism or disapproval
jump;descent with a parachute
downspin;a swift and dangerous downturn
bunt;disease of wheat characterized by replacement of the grains with greasy masses of smelly smut spores
tabulation;information set out in tabular form
threat;declaration of an intention or a determination to inflict harm on another. 'his threat to kill me was quite explicit'
rule;directions that define the way a game or sport is to be conducted. 'he knew the rules of chess'
tarrying;the act of lingering
material breach;a breach serious enough to destroy the value of the contract and to give a basis for an action for breach of contract
scheduled maintenance;maintenance at a regularly scheduled time
free list;a list of commodities that are not subject to tariffs
hiccough;(usually plural) the state of having involuntary spasms of the diaphragm accompanied by a rapid closure of the glottis. sometimes a symptom of indigestion. 'how do you cure the hiccups?'
intemperateness;consumption of alcoholic drinks
trek;(south african) a journey by ox wagon (especially an organized migration by a group of settlers)
kidney failure;inability of the kidneys to excrete wastes and to help maintain the electrolyte balance
violation;entry to another's property without right or permission
stay;the state of inactivity following an interruption. 'the negotiations were in arrest'. 'held them in check'. 'during the halt he got some lunch'. 'he spent the entire stay in his room'
pilot;an original model on which something is patterned
transgression;evil behavior
put down;(informal) a crushing remark
ruin;destruction achieved by wrecking something
refreshment;act of refreshing or renewing strength or liveliness
parrot disease;infectious disease of birds
public nudity;vulgar and offensive nakedness in a public place
jabbering;rapid and indistinct speech
paltering;a trivial act of lying
completion;a concluding action
axiom;in logic: a proposition that is not susceptible of proof or disproof. its truth is assumed to be self-evident
withdrawal;formal withdrawal or separation from an alliance or federation
traverse;taking a zigzag path on skis
guile;the use of tricks to deceive someone (usually to extract money from them)
attachment;the act of fastening things together
word of honor;a promise. 'he gave his word'
pyorrhea;chronic periodontitis. purulent inflammation of the teeth sockets
cerebral hemorrhage;bleeding from a ruptured blood vessel in the brain
polyostotic fibrous dysplasia;fibrous dysplasia of bone affecting multiple bones
handshake;grasping and shaking a person's hand (as to acknowledge an introduction or to agree on a contract)
skin disease;a disease affecting the skin
disturbance;(psychiatry) a psychological disorder of thought or emotion. a more neutral term than mental illness
bye bye;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
potato mold;a blight of potatoes
devaluation;the reduction of something value
decoration;the act of decorating something (in the hope of making it more attractive)
anxiety disorder;a cover term for a variety of mental disorders in which severe anxiety is a salient symptom
essence;the central meaning or theme of a speech or literary work
stoppage;the state of inactivity following an interruption. 'the negotiations were in arrest'. 'held them in check'. 'during the halt he got some lunch'. 'he spent the entire stay in his room'
ownership;"the state or fact of being an owner"
question of law;a disputed legal contention that is generally left for a judge to decide
indirect expression;an indirect way of expressing something
public law;a law affecting the public at large
connection;the act of bringing two things into contact
support;something providing immaterial support or assistance to a person or cause or interest. 'the policy found little public support'. 'his faith was all the support he needed'. 'the team enjoyed the support of their fans'
potshot;criticism aimed at an easy target and made without careful consideration. 'reporters took potshots at the mayor'
spotted fever;any of several severe febrile diseases characterized by skin rashes or spots on the skin
omnipresence;the state of being everywhere at once (or seeming to be everywhere at once)
satanophobia;an abnormal fear of satan
gastric ulcer;a peptic ulcer of the stomach
lepromatous leprosy;a very serious form of leprosy characterized by lesions that spread over much of the body and affecting many systems of the body
brucellosis;contracted from meat or milk products from infected domestic animals
insurance;written contract or certificate of insurance. 'you should have read the small print on your policy'
hand;a round of applause to signify approval. 'give the little lady a great big hand'
grief;something that causes great unhappiness. 'her death was a great grief to john'
chyloderma;swelling of the scrotum resulting from chronic lymphatic obstruction
fuss;a rapid bustling commotion
mucous colitis;recurrent abdominal pain and diarrhea (often alternating with periods of constipation). often associated with emotional stress
abrachia;the condition of having no arms
trade secret;a secret (method or device or formula) that gives a manufacturer an advantage over the competition
stenosis;abnormal narrowing of a bodily canal or passageway
contention;a point asserted as part of an argument
prophecy;a prediction uttered under divine inspiration
ennoblement;the act of raising someone to the nobility
church roll;a list of the members of church
business;a rightful concern or responsibility. used in such phrases as 'it's none of your business' or 'mind your own business'
elaboration;developing in intricate and painstaking detail
appro;(british abbreviation) 'he accepted it on appro'
ceding back;the act of ceding back
coalescence;the union of diverse things into one body or form or group
score;the facts about an actual situation. 'he didn't know the score'
mitral stenosis;obstruction or narrowing of the mitral valve (as by scarring from rheumatic fever)
coronary failure;inability of the heart to pump enough blood to sustain normal bodily functions
white book;a government report. bound in white
diverticulum;a herniation through the muscular wall of a tubular organ (especially the colon)
ko punch;a hard punch that renders the opponent unable to continue boxing
soundness;"a state or condition free from damage or decay"
oracle;a prophecy (usually obscure or allegorical) revealed by a priest or priestess. believed to be infallible
striping;the act of marking with stripes
carcinoma in situ;a cluster of malignant cells that has not yet invaded the deeper epithelial tissue or spread to other parts of the body
scattering;the act of scattering
hogwash;a ludicrously false statement
consumption;involving the lungs with progressive wasting of the body
degree;an award conferred by a college or university signifying that the recipient has satisfactorily completed a course of study. 'he earned his degree at princeton summa cum laude'
frailty;the state of being weak in health or body (especially from old age)
miniaturisation;act of making on a greatly reduced scale
defence;the justification for some act or belief. 'he offered a persuasive defense of the theory'
aneuploidy;an abnormality involving a chromosome number that is not an exact multiple of the haploid number (one chromosome set is incomplete)
insanity plea;(criminal law) a plea in which the defendant claims innocence due to mental incompetence at the time
spondylolisthesis;a forward dislocation of one vertebra over the one beneath it producing pressure on spinal nerves
abatement;the act of abating. 'laws enforcing noise abatement'
receivership;"the state of property that is in the hands of a receiver. 'the business is in receivership'"
thanksgiving;a short prayer of thanks before a meal
confidential information;an indication of potential opportunity. 'he got a tip on the stock market'. 'a good lead for a job'
decentralization;the spread of power away from the center to local branches or governments
potato blight;a blight of potatoes
rollback;reducing prices back to some earlier level
osteoma;a tumor of bone tissue
attempt;an assault on someone. 'they made an attempt on his life'
recognition;approval. 'give her recognition for trying'. 'he was given credit for his work'. 'it is to her credit that she tried'. 'the credits were given at the end of the film'
prostration;the act of prostrating yourself
exponential expression;a mathematical expression consisting of the constant e raised to some power
jeu d esprit;a witty comment or writing
epidural anaesthesia;regional anesthesia resulting from injection of an anesthetic into the epidural space of the spinal cord. sensation is lost in the abdominal and genital and pelvic areas. used in childbirth and gynecological surgery
settlement;terminating a business operation
color line;barrier preventing blacks from participating in various activities with whites
equivocation;a statement that is not literally false but that cleverly avoids an unpleasant truth
miliary fever;epidemic in the 15th and 16th centuries and characterized by profuse sweating and high mortality
trouble;an unwanted pregnancy. 'he got several girls in trouble'
presbyopia;reduced ability to focus caused by loss of elasticity of crystalline lens with age
stomatitis;inflammation of the mouth
walleye;strabismus in which one or both eyes are directed outward
aniseikonia;visual defect in which the shape and size of an ocular image differ in the two eyes
slap;the act of smacking something
tidings;new information about specific and timely events. 'they awaited news of the outcome'
twisting;the act of distorting something so it seems to mean something it was not intended to mean
fantan;a chinese gambling game. a random number of counters are placed under a bowl and you gamble on how many will be left (0 or 1 or 2 or 3) modulo 4
truth;a true statement. 'he told the truth'. 'he thought of answering with the truth but he knew they wouldn't believe it'
salute;an act of honor or courteous recognition: 'a musical salute to the composer on his birthday'
anorexia nervosa;(psychiatry) a psychological disorder characterized by somatic delusions that you are too fat despite being emaciated
hugger mugger;a state of confusion. ritual accompanied by complicated and purposeless activity that obscures and confuses. 'he engaged in the hugger-mugger of international finance'
falsification;any evidence that helps to establish the falsity of something
subjoining;the act of supplementing
typicality;the state of being that is typical
cross reference;a reference at one place in a work to information at another place in the same work
violation;an act that disregards an agreement or a right. 'he claimed a violation of his rights under the fifth amendment'
comminuted fracture;fracture in which the bone is splintered or crushed
demoralization;destroying the moral basis for a doctrine or policy
price reduction;the act of reducing the selling price of merchandise
humpback;an abnormal backward curve to the vertebral column
understanding;the statement (oral or written) of an exchange of promises. 'they had an agreement that they would not interfere in each other's business'. 'there was an understanding between management and the workers'
divergent strabismus;strabismus in which one or both eyes are directed outward
mood;"the prevailing psychological state. 'the climate of opinion'. 'the national mood had changed radically since the last election'"
denouement;the final resolution of the main complication of a literary or dramatic work
proctitis;inflammation of the rectum. marked by bloody stools and a frequent urge to defecate. frequently associated with crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis
lodgement;bringing a charge or accusation against someone
nonstop flight;a flight made without intermediate landings between source and destination. 'how many nonstops are there to dallas?'
degradation;changing to a lower state (a less respected state)
flea bite;sting inflicted by a flea
flak;intense adverse criticism. 'clinton directed his fire at jesse helms'
continuity;uninterrupted connection or union
nonmalignant tumor;a tumor that is not cancerous
clipping;cutting down to the desired size or shape
astigmia;(ophthalmology) impaired eyesight resulting usually from irregular conformation of the cornea
pain;something or someone that causes trouble. a source of unhappiness. 'a bit of a bother'
good story;an account of an amusing incident (usually with a punch line)
marseilles fever;a disease (common in india and around the mediterranean area) caused by a rickettsia that is transmitted to humans by a reddish brown tick (ixodid) that lives on dogs and other mammals
academic freedom;the freedom of teachers and students to express their ideas in school without religious or political or institutional restrictions
instability;a state of disequilibrium
ergotism;poisoning by ergot-infected grain products and characterized by inflamed skin or gangrene in the limbs
pilgrimage;a journey to a sacred place
consignment;the delivery of goods for sale or disposal
whip;a quick blow with a whip
ataxy;inability to coordinate voluntary muscle movements. unsteady movements and staggering gait
iridocyclitis;inflammation of the iris and ciliary body of the eye
cancer;any malignant growth or tumor caused by abnormal and uncontrolled cell division. it may spread to other parts of the body through the lymphatic system or the blood stream
lowering;the act of causing something to move to a lower level
bromide;a trite or obvious remark
actinic keratosis;an overgrowth of skin layers resulting from extended exposure to the sun
craze;state of violent mental agitation
potato disease;a blight of potatoes
childlessness;the condition of being without offspring
aoritis;inflammation of the aorta
dolce far niente;carefree idleness
metritis;inflammation of the lining of the uterus (of the endometrium)
solecism;a socially awkward or tactless act
heart block;recurrent sudden attacks of unconsciousness caused by impaired conduction of the impulse that regulates the heartbeat
extrauterine gestation;pregnancy resulting from gestation elsewhere than in the uterus
swamp fever;an infectious disease cause by leptospira and transmitted to humans from domestic animals. characterized by jaundice and fever
melanism;a condition characterized by abnormal deposits of melanin (especially in the skin)
narrowing;the act of making something narrower
adenocarcinoma;malignant tumor originating in glandular epithelium
toxemia of pregnancy;an abnormal condition of pregnancy characterized by hypertension and edema and protein in the urine
beingness;"the state or fact of existing: 'a point of view gradually coming into being'. 'laws in existence for centuries'"
appreciation;an increase in price or value over time. 'an appreciation of 30% in the value of real estate'
agitated depression;a state of clinical depression in which the person exhibits irritability and restlessness
baseball swing;in baseball. a batter's attempt to hit a pitched ball. 'he took a vicious cut at the ball'
vesicoureteral reflux;a backflow of urine from the bladder into the ureter
demolishing;complete destruction of a building
social phobia;any phobia (other than agoraphobia) associated with situations in which you are subject to criticism by others (as fear of eating in public or public speaking etc)
whip round;(british) solicitation of money usually for a benevolent purpose
stalking horse;something serving to conceal plans. a fictitious reason that is concocted in order to conceal the real reason
vaginocele;hernia projecting into the vagina
scorecard;a record of scores (as in golf). 'you have to turn in your card to get a handicap'
cryptobiosis;a state in which an animal's metabolic activities come to a reversible standstill
regression of y on x;the equation representing the relation between selected values of one variable (x) and observed values of the other (y). it permits the prediction of the most probable values of y
chondrodystrophy;an inherited skeletal disorder beginning before birth. cartilage is converted to bone resulting in dwarfism
commonness;the state of being commonly observed
kill;the act of terminating a life
supination;rotation of the hands and forearms so that the palms face upward
honorary degree;a degree conferred to honor the recipient
sepsis;the presence of pus-forming bacteria or their toxins in the blood or tissues
trespass viet armis;trespass with force and arms resulting in injury to another's person or property
shade;a subtle difference in meaning
misbehavior;improper or wicked or immoral behavior
blarney;flattery designed to gain favor
trespass quare clausum fregit;the defendant unlawfully enters the land of the plaintiff
master s degree;an academic degree higher than a bachelor's but lower than a doctor's
surrebuttal;a pleading by the plaintiff in reply to the defendant's rebutter
resettlement;the transportation of people (as a family or colony) to a new settlement (as after an upheaval of some kind)
smother;a confused multitude of things
bon voyage;an organized expression of goodwill at the start of a trip or new venture
unfastening;loosening the ties that fasten something. 'the tying of bow ties is an art. the untying is easy'
motion sickness;the state of being dizzy or nauseated because of traveling in a moving vehicle
motoring;the act of controlling and steering the movement of a vehicle or animal
loginess;a dull and listless state resulting from weariness
nooks and crannies;something remote. 'he explored every nook and cranny of science'
enlargement;the act of increasing in size or volume or quantity or scope
dead letter;"the state of something that has outlived its relevance"
fostering;encouragement. aiding the development of something
scurrility;foul-mouthed or obscene abuse
stretch;the act of physically reaching or thrusting out
agreement;the statement (oral or written) of an exchange of promises. 'they had an agreement that they would not interfere in each other's business'. 'there was an understanding between management and the workers'
sarcoidosis;a chronic disease of unknown cause marked by the formation of nodules in the lungs and liver and lymph glands and salivary glands
immunity;an act exempting someone. 'he was granted immunity from prosecution'
limb girdle muscular dystrophy;an autosomal recessive form of muscular dystrophy characterized by progressive muscular weakness beginning either in the shoulder or pelvic girdle
turning;act of changing in practice or custom: 'the law took many turnings over the years'
histiocytosis;a blood disease characterized by an abnormal multiplication of macrophages
reversal;a reversal in attitude or principle or point of view: 'an about-face on foreign policy'
cynophobia;a morbid fear of dogs
mythologization;the restatement of a message as a myth
perjury;criminal offense of making false statements under oath
flyover;a low-altitude flight (usually of military aircraft) over spectators on the ground
irony;witty language used to convey insults or scorn. 'he used sarcasm to upset his opponent'. 'irony is wasted on the stupid'
corroboration;confirmation that some fact or statement is true
network programming;the schedule of programs to be broadcast on a network
repeal;an official or legal cancellation
lung cancer;one of the commonest forms of cancer
typhoid fever;marked by intestinal inflammation and ulceration. caused by salmonella typhosa ingested with food or water
turning;the act of changing or reversing the direction of the course. 'he took a turn to the right'
on line database;(computer science) a database that can be accessed by computers
walking papers;a notice of dismissal or discharge
sand crack;a fissure in the wall of a horse's hoof often causing lameness
problem;a source of difficulty: 'one trouble after another delayed the job'. 'what's the problem?'
arrested development;an abnormal state in which development has stopped prematurely
mononucleosis;an abnormal increase of mononuclear leucocytes or monocytes in the bloodstream
gesture;motion of hands or body to emphasize or help to express a thought or feeling
bilharziasis;an infection with a parasite of the genus schistosoma. common in the tropics and far east. symptoms depend on the part of the body infected
skin condition;a disease affecting the skin
newssheet;report or open letter giving informal or confidential news
rest;euphemisms for death (based on an analogy between lying in a bed and in a tomb). 'she was laid to rest beside her husband'. 'they had to put their family pet to sleep'
warrant;formal and explicit approval
contracture;an abnormal and usually permanent contraction of a muscle
dope;slang terms for inside information. 'is that the straight dope?'
whirl;the act of rotating rapidly. 'he gave the crank a spin'. 'it broke off after much twisting'
annunciation;a formal public statement. 'the government made an announcement about changes in the drug war'
bylaw;a rule made by a local authority to regulate its own affairs
weariness;temporary loss of strength and energy resulting from hard physical or mental work
flatulence;a state of excessive gas in the alimentary canal
handbill;an advertisement (usually printed on a page or in a leaflet) intended for wide distribution. 'he mailed the circular to all subscribers'
flash butt welding;butt welding by creating an electric arc between the two pieces which melts and joins them. used for joining segments of metal pipe
cyclothymic disorder;a mild bipolar disorder that persists over a long time
wow;a joke that seems extremely funny
sickness;impairment of normal physiological function affecting part or all of an organism
acanthoma;a neoplasm originating in the epidermis
osteogenic sarcoma;malignant bone tumor. most common in children and young adults where it tends to affect the femur
struma;a form of tuberculosis characterized by swellings of the lymphatic glands
sellout;an act of betrayal
posttraumatic stress disorder;an anxiety disorder associated with serious traumatic events and characterized by such symptoms as guilt about surviving or reliving the trauma in dreams or numbness and lack of involvement with reality or recurrent thoughts and images
antagonism;(biochemistry) interference in or inhibition of the physiological action of a chemical substance by another having a similar structure
shoot down;murder by shooting someone down in cold blood
cut;the division of a deck of cards before dealing. 'his cutting the cards before every deal soon became a ritual'
nolo contendere;(criminal law) an answer of 'no contest' by a defendant who does not admit guilt but that subjects him to conviction
twilight sleep;a state of general anesthesia in which the person retains a slight degree of consciousness. can be induced by injection of scopolamine or morphine
christmas disease;a clotting disorder similar to hemophilia a but caused by a congenital deficiency of factor ix
bravo;a cry of approval as from an audience at the end of great performance
diverticulosis;presence of diverticula in the walls of the colon
attack;intense adverse criticism. 'clinton directed his fire at jesse helms'
coalescency;the union of diverse things into one body or form or group
car sickness;motion sickness experienced while traveling in an car
evidence;(law) all the means by which any alleged matter of fact whose truth is investigated at judicial trial is established or disproved
sweepstake;a lottery in which the prize consists of the money paid by the participants
breaking;the act of breaking something. 'the breakage was unavoidable'
combat fatigue;a mental disorder caused by stress of active warfare
pitch;abrupt up-and-down motion (as caused by a ship or other conveyance). 'the pitching and tossing was quite exciting'
sense;the meaning of a word or expression. 'the dictionary gave several senses for the word' or 'in the best sense charity is really a duty'
timetable;a schedule of times of arrivals and departures
complaint;(criminal law) a pleading describing some wrong or offense. 'he was arrested on a charge of larceny'
battle royal;a noisy riotous fight
bill of lading;a receipt from the carrier for the goods being shipped
goal kick;(rugby football) an attempt to kick a goal
contusion;an injury that doesn't break the skin but results in some discoloration
erection;an erect penis
severance;the act of severing
mysophobia;a morbid fear of dirt or contamination
walnut blight;a disease of english walnut trees
stinging;something as sudden and painful as a sting. 'the sting of death'
cystic mastitis;the presence of one or more cysts in a breast
conduction anaesthesia;anesthesia of an area supplied by a nerve. produced by an anesthetic agent applied to the nerve
distention;the act of expanding by pressure from within
impairment;a symptom of reduced quality or strength
suspension;temporary cessation or suspension
flypast;a low-altitude flight (usually of military aircraft) over spectators on the ground
inter service support;action by one military service to provide logistic (or administrative) support to another military service
acquisition agreement;contract governing the merger of two or more companies
dehydration;depletion of bodily fluids
assisted suicide;suicide of a terminally ill person that involves an assistant who serves to make dying as painless and dignified as possible
dizziness;a reeling sensation. feeling about to fall
wakening;the act of waking. 'it was a rude awakening'. 'it was the waking up he hated most'
wetting;the act of making something wet
laissez passer;a document indicating permission to do something without restrictions. 'the media representatives had special passes'
cytolysis;pathological dissolution of cells caused by degeneration of their membranes
play;a state in which action is feasible. 'the ball was still in play'. 'insiders said the company's stock was in play'
cane blight;a disease affecting the canes of various bush fruits (e.g., raspberries or currants)
gloominess;an atmosphere of depression and melancholy. 'gloom pervaded the office'
myodynia;pain in a muscle or group of muscles
shaft;an aggressive remark directed at a person like a missile and intended to have a telling effect. 'his parting shot was 'drop dead''. 'she threw shafts of sarcasm'. 'she takes a dig at me every chance she gets'
impregnability;having the strength to withstand attack
suction curettage;a method of induced abortion. prior to the 14th week of gestation the embryo and placenta are removed by applying suction to the dilated cervix
hyperthermia;abnormally high body temperature
liberalisation;the act of making less strict
shaking;a shaky motion. 'the shaking of his fingers as he lit his pipe'
battle of little bighorn;a battle in montana near the little bighorn river between general custer's cavalry and several groups of native americans (1876). custer was pursuing sioux led by sitting bull. custer underestimated the size of the sioux forces (which were supported by cheyenne warriors) and was killed along with all his command
bonus;anything that tends to arouse. 'his approval was an added fillip'
scald;the act of burning with steam or hot water
ascites;accumulation of serous fluid in peritoneal cavity
hierarchical menu;(computer science) a secondary menu that appears while you are holding the cursor over an item on the primary menu
hyperchromic anemia;anemia characterized by an increase in the concentration of corpuscular hemoglobin
atomization;annihilation by reducing something to atoms
statutory offence;crimes created by statutes and not by common law
fifth amendment;an amendment to the constitution of the united states that imposes restrictions on the government's prosecution of persons accused of crimes. mandates due process of law and prohibits self-incrimination and double jeopardy
filing;the entering of a legal document into the public record. 'he filed a complaint'. 'he filed his tax return'
body;the central message of a communication. 'the body of the message was short'
infectious disease;a disease transmitted only by a specific kind of contact
red water;a disease of cattle. characterized by hematuria
distinguished service cross;a us army decoration for extraordinary heroism against an armed enemy
immanency;the state of being within or not going beyond a given domain
political liberty;one's freedom to exercise one's rights as guaranteed under the laws of the country
submenu;(computer science) a secondary menu that appears while you are holding the cursor over an item on the primary menu
reverting;a failure to maintain a higher state
varicella;an acute contagious disease caused by herpes varicella zoster virus. causes a rash of vesicles on the face and body
relinquishment;the act of relinquishing
atherosclerosis;a stage of arteriosclerosis involving fatty deposits (atheromas) inside the arterial walls
bacillary dysentery;an acute infection of the intestine by shigella bacteria. characterized by diarrhea and fever and abdominal pains
question;a formal proposal for action made to a deliberative assembly for discussion and vote. 'he made a motion to adjourn'. 'she called for the question'
letter;a strictly literal interpretation (as distinct from the intention). 'he followed instructions to the letter'. 'he obeyed the letter of the law'
needle blight;a disease of conifers causing the needles to fall
labor agreement;contract between labor and management government wages and benefits and working conditions
typhoid;marked by intestinal inflammation and ulceration. caused by salmonella typhosa ingested with food or water
acute anterior poliomyelitis;an acute viral disease marked by inflammation of nerve cells of the brain stem and spinal cord
federalization;the state of being federalized. 'the federalization of postal service'
inactiveness;"the state of being inactive"
intermission;the act of suspending activity temporarily
ambulation;walking about. 'the hospital encouraged early ambulation'
run;the act of running. traveling on foot at a fast pace. 'he broke into a run'. 'his daily run keeps him fit'
rebutter;a pleading by the defendant in reply to a plaintiff's surrejoinder
contact dermatitis;a delayed type of allergic reaction of the skin resulting from skin contact with a specific allergen (such as poison ivy)
sand tumor;a tumor derived from fibrous tissue of the meninges or choroid plexus or certain other structures associated with the brain. characterized by sand-like particles
astasia;inability to stand due to muscular incoordination
swimmer s itch;a sensitization reaction to repeated invasion of the skin by cercariae of schistosomes (human or animal)
chewing;biting and grinding food in your mouth so it becomes soft enough to swallow
flection;the act of bending something
chiralgia;a pain in the hand that is not traumatic
foretelling;a statement about the future
deceit;a misleading falsehood
chromoblastomycosis;a fungal infection characterized by itchy warty nodules on the skin
gameness;disability of walking due to crippling of the legs or feet
sore throat;inflammation of the fauces and pharynx
undoing;loosening the ties that fasten something. 'the tying of bow ties is an art. the untying is easy'
perversion;the action of perverting something (turning it to a wrong use). 'it was a perversion of justice'
acetonemia;an abnormal increase of ketone bodies in the blood as in diabetes mellitus
glandular fever;an acute disease characterized by fever and swollen lymph nodes. some believe it can be transmitted by kissing
insertion;the act of putting one thing into another
domination;power to dominate or defeat. 'mastery of the seas'
st. vitus dance;chorea occurring chiefly in children and associated with rheumatic fever
endometritis;inflammation of the lining of the uterus (of the endometrium)
hot flash;sudden brief flush and sensation of heat associated with menopause
homecoming;an annual school or university reunion for graduates
critical point;a crisis situation or point in time when a critical decision must be made. 'at that juncture he had no idea what to do'. 'he must be made to realize that the company stands at a critical point'
record;a list of crimes for which an accused person has been previously convicted. 'he ruled that the criminal record of the defendant could not be disclosed to the court'. 'the prostitute had a record a mile long'
insecureness;the state of being insecure
storing;depositing in a warehouse
criticalness;a state of critical urgency
bowleg;a leg bowed outward at the knee (or below the knee)
quicky;hurried repair
treading water;a stroke that keeps the head above water by thrashing the legs and arms
porno;illegal activities designed to stimulate sexual desire
closing;termination of operations
withdrawal;the termination of drug taking
nonfluent aphasia;aphasia in which expression by speech or writing is severely impaired
black vomit;caused by a virus transmitted by a mosquito
encumbrance;an onerous or difficult concern. 'the burden of responsibility'. 'that's a load off my mind'
thwack;a hard blow with a flat object
pustule;a small inflamed elevation of skin containing pus
tumour;an abnormal new mass of tissue that serves no purpose
tripe;nonsensical talk or writing
prophylaxis;the prevention of disease
conjecture;a message expressing an opinion based on incomplete evidence
entente;a friendly understanding between political powers
heat rash;inflammation around the sweat ducts
potency;the state of being potent. a male's capacity to have sexual intercourse
cyclic neutropenia;neutropenia that occurs periodically
liberation;the act of terminating someone's employment
yak;a humorous anecdote or remark
blessing;a desirable state. 'enjoy the blessings of peace'. 'a spanking breeze is a boon to sailors'
rosacea;a skin disease of adults (more often women) in which blood vessels of the face enlarge resulting in a flushed appearance
miscue;an inadvertent mistake
shot;an aggressive remark directed at a person like a missile and intended to have a telling effect. 'his parting shot was 'drop dead''. 'she threw shafts of sarcasm'. 'she takes a dig at me every chance she gets'
repair;"a formal way of referring to the condition of something. 'the building was in good repair'"
an;an associate degree in nursing
hansen s disease;chronic granulomatous communicable disease occurring in tropical and subtropical regions
index number;a number or ratio (a value on a scale of measurement) derived from a series of observed facts. can reveal relative changes as a function of time
tarantism;a nervous disorder characterized by an uncontrollable impulse to dance. popularly attributed to bite of the s european tarantula or wolf spider
feticide;the act of destroying a fetus
circumstances;the state (usually personal) with regard to wealth. 'each person was helped according to his circumstances'
cattle plague;an acute infectious viral disease of cattle (usually fatal). characterized by fever and diarrhea and inflammation of mucous membranes
odd even check;a system of checking for errors in computer functioning
strep throat;an infection of the oral pharynx and tonsils by streptococcus
surroundings;the environmental condition
dissolution of marriage;an annulment of a marriage
secondary hypertension;hypertension that is secondary to another disease
milk sickness;caused by consuming milk from cattle suffering from trembles
lesion;any visible abnormal structural change in a bodily part
spasmolysis;the relaxation or relief of muscle spasms
farewell;an acknowledgment or expression of goodwill at parting
formula;a conventionalized statement expressing some fundamental principle
insider information;important information about the plans or condition of a corporation that has not been released to the public. use for personal profit is illegal
gospel;an unquestionable truth. 'his word was gospel'
procursive epilepsy;epilepsy in which a seizure is induced by whirling or running
averting;the act of preventing something from occurring. 'averting danger was his responsibility'
rhizoctinia disease;disease caused by rhizoctinia or fungi of pellicularia and corticium
stock list;a detailed list of all the items in stock
cost of living index;an index of the cost of all goods and services to a typical consumer
scamper;rushing about hastily in an undignified way
dearth;a severe shortage (especially a shortage of food)
life history;the general progression of your working or professional life. 'the general had had a distinguished career'. 'he had a long career in the law'
viral hepatitis;hepatitis caused by a virus
name;a defamatory or abusive word or phrase. 'sticks and stones may break my bones but names can never hurt me'
lightheadedness;a reeling sensation. feeling about to fall
trimming;the act of adding decoration. 'the children had to be in bed before it was time for the trimming of the tree'
lumbago;backache affecting the lumbar region or lower back. can be caused by muscle strain or arthritis or vascular insufficiency or a ruptured intervertebral disc
hypobetalipoproteinemia;a hereditary disorder characterized by low levels of beta-lipoproteins and lipids and cholesterol
burden;an onerous or difficult concern. 'the burden of responsibility'. 'that's a load off my mind'
browning;cooking to a brown crispiness over a fire or on a grill
aneurysm;a sac-like widening of a blood vessel
indenture;formal agreement between the issuer of bonds and the bondholders as to terms of the debt
strabismus;abnormal alignment of one or both eyes
output contract;a contract in which you promise to deliver your entire output to the other party who promises to accept it
analbuminemia;an abnormally low level of albumin in the blood serum
bad condition;poor physical condition. being out of shape or out of condition
frog kick;a swimming kick. knees are drawn upward and outward so the legs can be brought together when fully extended
unspoken accusation;an accusation that is understood without needing to be spoken
grounds;a justification for something existing or happening. 'he had no cause to complain'. 'they had good reason to rejoice'
armed robbery;robbery at gunpoint
earache;an ache localized in the middle or inner ear
hinge;a circumstance upon which subsequent events depend. 'his absence is the hinge of our plan'
big time;the highest level of an occupation (especially in entertainment)
sacrifice;(in baseball) an out that advances the base runners
muddle;informal terms for a difficult situation. 'he got into a terrible fix'. 'he made a muddle of his marriage'
parotitis;inflammation of one or both parotid glands
lure;anything that serves as an enticement
infection;invasion of the body by pathogenic microorganisms causing inflammation
occupying;the act of taking occupancy
statutory rape;sexual intercourse with a girl who has not reached the age of consent
apple canker;a disease of apple trees
hydrocephaly;an abnormal condition in which cerebrospinal fluid collects in the ventricles of the brain. in infants it can cause abnormally rapid growth of the head and bulging fontanelles and a small face. in adults the symptoms are primarily neurological
greek alphabet;the alphabet used by ancient greeks
memorial;a written statement of facts submitted in conjunction with a petition to a an authority
deduction;the act of subtracting (removing a part from the whole). 'he complained about the subtraction of money from their paychecks'
anopia;sightlessness (especially because of a structural defect in or the absence of an eye)
clutch;a tense critical situation. 'he is a good man in the clutch'
ectopic pregnancy;pregnancy resulting from gestation elsewhere than in the uterus
dissuasion;deterrence by argument or reasoning or entreaty
cardiovascular disease;a disease of the heart or blood vessels
opening;the first of a series of actions. 'he memorized all the important chess openings'
deceit;the act of deceiving
orbit;a particular environment or walk of life. 'his social sphere is limited'. 'it was a closed area of employment'. 'he's out of my orbit'
bradycardia;abnormally slow heartbeat
reference;a remark that calls attention to something or someone. 'she made frequent mention of her promotion'. 'there was no mention of it'. 'the speaker made several references to his wife'
hearsay rule;a rule that declares not admissible as evidence any statement other than that by a witness
accumulation;the act of accumulating
kabala;an esoteric or occult matter that is traditionally secret
riot act;a vigorous reprimand. 'i read him the riot act'
view;a message expressing a belief about something. 'his opinions appeared frequently on the editorial page'
sermon;a moralistic rebuke. 'your preaching is wasted on him'
decapitation;killing by cutting off the head
little potato;rhizoctinia disease of potatoes
dilution;weakening (reducing the concentration) by the addition of water or a thinner
mixing;the act of mixing. 'paste made by a mixture of flour and water'
demythologization;the restatement of a message (as a religious one) in rational terms
turnoff;(informal) something causing antagonism or loss of interest
spondylarthritis;arthritis that affects one or more of the intervertebral joints in the spine
realism;the state of being actual or real: 'the reality of his situation slowly dawned on him'
potentiality;the inherent capacity for coming into being
product;a consequence of someone's efforts or of a particular set of circumstances. 'skill is the product of hours of practice'. 'his reaction was the product of hunger and fatigue'
goldbricking;the evasion of work or duty
break;the act of breaking something. 'the breakage was unavoidable'
pass;a bad or difficult situation or state of affairs
asthma attack;respiratory disorder characterized by wheezing. often of allergic origin
hysteria;characterized by violent emotional outbreaks and disturbances of sensory and motor functions
atresia;an abnormal condition in which a normal opening or tube in the body (as the urethra) is closed or absent
gambit;an opening remark intended to secure an advantage for the speaker
splintering;the act of chipping something
result;"a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon. 'the magnetic effect was greater when the rod was lengthwise'. 'his decision had depressing consequences for business'"
tribute;payment extorted by gangsters on threat of violence. 'every store in the neighborhood had to pay him protection'
subversive activity;activity aimed at bringing about an overthrow of a legally constituted government
exaggeration;making to seem more important than it really is
goitre;enlarged thyroid gland resulting from iodine deficiency
motion;the act of changing your location from one place to another. 'police controlled the motion of the crowd'. 'the movement of people from the farms to the cities'. 'his move put him directly in my path'
snick;a small cut
flattery;excessive or insincere praise
birth pangs;a regularly recurrent spasm of pain that is characteristic of childbirth
richness;abundant wealth
ticket stub;a torn part of a ticket returned to the holder as a receipt
deer fly fever;disease of rodents (especially rabbits and squirrels) and sometimes transmitted to humans by ticks or flies or by handling infected animals
song and dance;an interesting but highly implausible story. often told as an excuse
lassitude;a state of comatose torpor
face off;(ice hockey) the method of starting play. a referee drops the puck between two opposing players
castration;neutering a male animal by removing the testicles
pemphigus;a skin disease characterized by large thin-walled blisters (bullae) arising from normal skin or mucous membrane
relapsing fever;marked by recurring high fever and transmitted by the bite of infected lice or ticks
blitz;(football) defensive players try to break through the offensive line
circumcision;surgical removal of the foreskin of males
swiz;british
doctorate;one of the highest academic degrees conferred by a university
anger;the state of being angry
reason;a justification for something existing or happening. 'he had no cause to complain'. 'they had good reason to rejoice'
tabes dorsalis;syphilis of the spinal cord
draw;the situation in a contest in which the winner is undecided at the end. 'the game ended in a draw'. 'their record was 3 wins, 6 losses and a tie'
normality;"conformity with the norm"
undoing;an act that makes a previous act of no effect (as if not done)
interpolation;an action or remark that interrupts
ascii character set;(computer science) 128 characters that make up the ascii coding scheme. 'the ascii character set is the most universal character coding set'
sprue;a chronic disorder that occurs in tropical and nontropical forms and in both children and adults. nutrients are not absorbed. symptoms include foul-smelling diarrhea and emaciation
brown rot;any of certain fungous diseases of plants characterized by browning and decay of tissues
refractory anemia;any of various anemic conditions that are not successfully treated by any means other than blood transfusions (and that are not associated with another primary disease)
adjustment;the act of making something different (as e.g. the size of a garment)
scd;an honorary degree in science
monopsony;(economics) a market in which goods or services are offered by several sellers but there is only one buyer
dyspnea;difficult or labored respiration
sousing;the act of making something completely wet
denudation;the removal of covering
ketonuria;excessive amounts of ketone bodies in the urine as in diabetes mellitus or starvation
miniaturization;act of making on a greatly reduced scale
poverty;the state of having little or no money and few or no material possessions
minamata disease;a form of mercury poisoning among people who ate fish from mercury-contaminated waters of minamata bay off japan in the 1950s. characterized by severe neurological degeneration
butterfly stroke;a swimming stroke in which the arms are thrown forward together out of the water while the feet kick up and down
transshipment;transfer from one conveyance to another for shipment
backchat;light teasing repartee
fabrication;a deliberately false or improbable account
inosculation;a natural or surgical joining of parts or branches of tubular structures so as to make or become continuous
olive branch;something offered to an adversary in the hope of obtaining peace
smack;the act of smacking something
colonic irrigation;irrigation of the colon for cleansing purposes by injecting large amounts of fluid high into the colon
nature;"a wild primitive state untouched by civilization. 'he lived in the wild'. 'they tried to preserve nature as they found it'"
markup;detailed stylistic instructions for typesetting something that is to be printed. manual markup is usually written on the copy (e.g. underlining words that are to be set in italics)
white pine rust;any of several diseases of pines caused by rust fungi of the genus cronartium and marked by destructive invasion of bark and sapwood and producing blisters externally
steinert s disease;a severe form of muscular dystrophy marked by facial weakness and drooping eyelids and difficult speech and difficulty with the hands that spreads to the arms and shoulders and legs and hips
combat neurosis;a mental disorder caused by stress of active warfare
lash;a quick blow with a whip
mischief making;reckless or malicious behavior that causes discomfort or annoyance in others
fosterage;encouragement. aiding the development of something
angiopathy;any disease of the blood vessels or lymph ducts
abdominal actinomycosis;a serious form of actinomycosis that affects the abdomen
sphere;a particular environment or walk of life. 'his social sphere is limited'. 'it was a closed area of employment'. 'he's out of my orbit'
refusal;the polite declining of an invitation
attack;an assault on someone. 'they made an attempt on his life'
auditory aphasia;an impairment in understanding spoken language that is not attributable to hearing loss
vandalism;willful wanton and malicious destruction of the property of others
doublespeak;any language that pretends to communicate but actually does not
slaying;unlawful premeditated killing of a human being
hammering;the act of pounding (delivering repeated heavy blows). 'the sudden hammer of fists caught him off guard'. 'the pounding of feet on the hallway'
prowl;the act of prowling (walking about in a stealthy manner)
backhand;a return made with the back of the hand facing the direction of the stroke
hyperglycemia;abnormally high blood sugar usually associated with diabetes
abnormality;"an abnormal condition"
run;a short trip. 'take a run into town'
employment agreement;contract between employer and employee
hepatitis delta;a severe form of hepatitis
botulism;poisoning from ingesting botulin. affects the cns
haj;a pilgrimage to mecca. every muslim must make this journey at least once
delirium;state of violent mental agitation
fibrositis;inflammation of white fibrous tissues (especially muscle sheaths)
launching;the act of beginning something new. 'they looked forward to the debut of their new product line'
prickly heat;inflammation around the sweat ducts
judicial sale;a sale of property by the sheriff under authority of a court's judgment in order satisfy and unpaid obligation
anger;belligerence aroused by a real or supposed wrong (personified as one of the deadly sins)
expansion;the act of increasing in size or volume or quantity or scope
breach of contract;a breach of a legal duty
bazaar;a sale of miscellany. often for charity. 'the church bazaar'
burn;a browning of the skin resulting from exposure to the rays of the sun
stomach upset;a disorder of digestive function characterized by discomfort or heartburn or nausea
tinderbox;a dangerous state of affairs. a situation that is a potential source of violence. 'the balkans are the tinderbox of europe'
give and take;light teasing repartee
persiflage;light teasing
polyp;a small vascular growth on the surface of a mucous membrane
demonetisation;ending something (e.g. gold or silver) as no longer the legal tender of a country
premise;a statement that is assumed to be true and from which a conclusion can be drawn. 'on the assumption that he has been injured we can infer that he will not to play'
howdy;an expression of greeting. 'every morning they exchanged polite hellos'
reparation;compensation (given or received) for an injury or insult. 'an act for which there is no reparation'. 'how can i make amends?'
jaundice of the newborn;yellowish appearance in newborn infants. usually subsides spontaneously
skimming;the act of removing floating material from the surface of a liquid
baring;the removal of covering
hazarding;the act of gambling. 'he did it on a bet'
sydenham s chorea;chorea occurring chiefly in children and associated with rheumatic fever
microbrachia;abnormally small arms
sleep terror disorder;a disorder of sleep characterized by a dream of terrifying dimensions far worse than a typical nightmare. they occur during nrem sleep
stop;the state of inactivity following an interruption. 'the negotiations were in arrest'. 'held them in check'. 'during the halt he got some lunch'. 'he spent the entire stay in his room'
infomercial;a television commercial presented in the form of a short documentary
wading;walking with your feet in water
coming together;the act of joining together as one. 'the merging of the two groups occurred quickly'. 'there was no meeting of minds'
rhetorical question;a statement that is formulated as a question but that is not supposed to be answered. 'he liked to make his points with rhetorical questions'
areflexia;absence of a reflex. a sign of possible nerve damage
database;an organized body of related information
kindling;the act of starting a fire
converging;the act of converging (coming closer)
pang;a mental pain or distress. 'a pang of conscience'
aphasia;inability to use or understand language (spoken or written) because of a brain lesion
hurly burly;a disorderly outburst or tumult. 'they were amazed by the furious disturbance they had caused'
discolouration;the act of discoloring something
hotbed;a situation that is ideal for rapid development (especially of something bad). 'it was a hotbed of vice'
gigantism;excessive size. usually caused by excessive secretion of growth hormone from the pituitary gland
stall;a tactic used to mislead or delay
commercial;a commercially sponsored ad on radio or television
mischievousness;reckless or malicious behavior that causes discomfort or annoyance in others
thesis;an unproved statement put forward as a premise in an argument
edacity;excessive desire to eat
thuggee;murder and robbery by thugs
sortie;an operational flight by a single aircraft (as in a military operation)
dashing hopes;the act of disappointing someone
date rape;rape in which the rapist is known to the victim (as when they are on a date together)
furor;a sudden outburst (as of protest)
allergic rhinitis;rhinitis caused by an allergic reaction
cholera;an acute intestinal infection caused by ingestion of contaminated water or food
responsibility;the proper sphere or extent of your activities. 'it was his province to take care of himself'
knockout;a blow that renders the opponent unconscious
pitfall;an unforeseen or unexpected difficulty
horniness;(informal) a state of sexual arousal
roll;the act of throwing dice
elongation;the act of lengthening something
master of arts;a master's degree in arts and sciences
feebleness;the state of being weak in health or body (especially from old age)
fettle;a state of fitness and good health. 'in fine fettle'
acrobatics;the performance of stunts while in flight in an aircraft
slate;a list of candidates to be considered for nomination or election to public offices
nrem sleep;a recurring sleep state during which rapid eye movements do not occur and dreaming does not occur. accounts for about 75% of normal sleep time
credit;a short note acknowledging a source of information or quoting a passage. 'the student's essay failed to list several important citations'. 'the article includes mention of similar clinical cases'
duplicity;a fraudulent or duplicitous representation
enmity;"a state of deep-seated ill-will"
malocclusion;a condition in which the opposing teeth do not mesh normally
safety blitz;(football) defensive players try to break through the offensive line
enclosure;the act of enclosing something inside something else
modernisation;making modern in appearance of behavior. 'the modernizing of nigeria will be a long process'
pile;pain caused by venous swelling at or inside the anal sphincter
list;a database containing an ordered array of items (names or topics)
cat scratch disease;a disease thought to be transmitted to humans by a scratch from a cat
security;a guarantee that an obligation will be met
room;opportunity for. 'room for improvement'
answer;the principle pleading by the defendant in response to plaintiff's complaint. in criminal law it consists of the defendant's plea of 'guilty' or 'not guilty' (or nolo contendere). in civil law it must contain denials of all allegations in the plaintiff's complaint that the defendant hopes to controvert and it can contain affirmative defenses or counterclaims
throe;hard or painful trouble or struggle: 'a country in the throes of economic collapse'
aberration;a disorder in one's mental state
stitch;a sharp spasm of pain in the side resulting from running
cyrillic alphabet;an alphabet drived from the greek alphabet and used for writing slavic language
unrest;a state of agitation or turbulent change or development: 'the political ferment produced a new leadership'. 'social unrest'
race problem;a social and political problem caused by conflict between races occupying the same or adjacent regions
disturbance;a disorderly outburst or tumult. 'they were amazed by the furious disturbance they had caused'
broca s aphasia;aphasia in which expression by speech or writing is severely impaired
animation;the condition of living or the state of being alive. 'while there's life there's hope'. 'life depends on many chemical and physical processes'
imago;(psychoanalysis) an idealized image of someone (usually a parent) formed in childhood
pitch;promotion by means of an argument and demonstration
goose pimples;symptom of coldness
integration;the act of combining into an integral whole
aramaic alphabet;a semitic alphabet used since the 5th century bc
blacklist;a list of people who are out of favor
pullorum disease;a serious bacterial disease of young chickens
mention;a remark that calls attention to something or someone. 'she made frequent mention of her promotion'. 'there was no mention of it'. 'the speaker made several references to his wife'
aggravation;action that makes a problem or a disease (or its symptoms) worse. 'the aggravation of her condition resulted from lack of care'
flush;a response of body tissues to injury or irritation. characterized by pain and swelling and redness and heat
snowblindness;temporary blindness caused by exposure to sunlight reflected from snow or ice
damage;the act of damaging something or someone
palsy;loss of the ability to move a body part
tardive dyskinesia;involuntary rolling of the tongue and twitching of the face or trunk or limbs
yes;an affirmative. 'i was hoping for a yes'
marriage proposal;an offer of marriage
dissection;cutting so as to separate into pieces
speech;a lengthy rebuke. 'a good lecture was my father's idea of discipline'. 'the teacher gave him a talking to'
vaporization;annihilation by vaporizing something
mannerism;a deliberate pretense or exaggerated display
bleach;the act of whitening something by bleaching it (exposing it to sunlight or using a chemical bleaching agent)
flimflam;a swindle in which you cheat at gambling or persuade a person to buy worthless property
lottery;players buy chances and prizes are distributed according to the drawing of lots
pleading;(law) an allegation in legal form stating something on behalf of a party to a legal proceeding
crossing;a voyage across a body of water (usually across the atlantic ocean)
reference;a short note acknowledging a source of information or quoting a passage. 'the student's essay failed to list several important citations'. 'the article includes mention of similar clinical cases'
urbanization;becoming urbanized. changing from a rural to an urban state
doctor of science;an honorary degree in science
bloodshed;indiscriminate slaughter
tailspin;rapid descent of an aircraft in a steep spiral spin
potency;the inherent capacity for coming into being
insolation;sudden prostration due to exposure to the sun or excessive heat
grippe;an acute febrile highly contagious viral disease
parkinsonism;a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterized by tremor and impaired muscular coordination
hypothermia;subnormal body temperature
drop;the act of dropping something. 'they expected the drop would be successful'
bachelor of naval science;a bachelor's degree in naval science
proclamation;a formal public statement. 'the government made an announcement about changes in the drug war'
befooling;derision of someone or something as foolish or absurd or inconsistent
dogtrot;a steady trot like that of a dog
shigellosis;an acute infection of the intestine by shigella bacteria. characterized by diarrhea and fever and abdominal pains
bagassosis;alveolitis caused by inhaling bagasse (sugarcane dust)
flop;the act of throwing yourself down. 'he landed on the bed with a great flop'
connecting;the act of bringing two things into contact
indictment;an accusation of wrongdoing. 'the book is an indictment of modern philosophy'
equine distemper;an acute bacterial disease of horses characterized by inflammation of the mucous membranes
duchenne s muscular dystrophy;the most common form of muscular dystrophy. x-linked recessive (affecting only males)
nervous prostration;an emotional disorder that leaves you exhausted and unable to work
intussusception;the folding in of an outer layer so as to form a pocket in the surface
yellow spot;any of several fungous or viral diseases characterized by yellow spotting on the leaves
definition;a concise explanation of the meaning of a word or phrase or symbol
reservation;a statement that limits or restricts some claim. 'he recommended her without any reservations'
change of state;the act of changing something into something different in essential characteristics
eclampsia;characterized by convulsions and possibly coma during or immediately after pregnancy
poor law;a law providing support for the poor
aquaphobia;a morbid fear of drowning
llb;a three-year law degree
deception;a misleading falsehood
amblyopia;dimness of vision without apparent organic pathology
come on;anything that serves as an enticement
avitaminosis;any of several diseases caused by deficiency of one or more vitamins
anastomosis;a natural or surgical joining of parts or branches of tubular structures so as to make or become continuous
rinse;the removal of soap with clean water in the final stage of washing
vasculitis;inflammation of a blood vessel
malaria;an infective disease caused by sporozoan parasites that are transmitted through the bite of an infected anopheles mosquito. marked by paroxysms of chills and fever
manoeuvre;a deliberate coordinated movement requiring dexterity and skill. 'he made a great play'
subtraction;the act of subtracting (removing a part from the whole). 'he complained about the subtraction of money from their paychecks'
split;division of a group into opposing factions. 'another schism like that and they will wind up in bankruptcy'
employment;"the state of being employed or having a job. 'they are looking for employment'. 'he was in the employ of the city'"
ramble;a leisurely walk (usually in some public place)
proposal;an offer of marriage
infantile paralysis;an acute viral disease marked by inflammation of nerve cells of the brain stem and spinal cord
flow;something that resembles a flowing stream in moving continuously. 'a stream of people emptied from the terminal'. 'the museum had planned carefully for the flow of visitors'
spoiling;the act of spoiling
constitution;the act of forming something. 'the constitution of a pta group'. 'he still remembers the establishment of the hospital'
character;a formal recommendation by a former employer to a potential future employer describing the person's qualifications and dependability. 'requests for character references are all to often answered evasively'
pace lap;(auto racing) the first lap of a car race that prepares the cars for a fast start
promotion;a message issued in behalf of some product or cause or institution
neatness;the state of being neat and smart and trim
dry socket;inflammation in the socket of a tooth. sometimes occurs after a tooth is extracted and a blood clot fails to form
cardiopathy;a disease of the heart
out;a failure to get on base safely in baseball. 'you only get 3 outs per inning'
acute pyelonephritis;pyelonephritis resulting from the spread of a bladder infection
advancement;the act of moving forward toward a goal
darkening;changing to a darker color
drawing;players buy chances and prizes are distributed according to the drawing of lots
heave;the act of lifting something with great effort
partial abortion;termination of pregnancy without expulsion of all of the products of conception
excursion;wandering from the main path of a journey
numbers pool;an illegal daily lottery
perturbation;the act of causing disorder
trumpery;nonsensical talk or writing
jag;a bout of drinking or drug taking
incasement;the act of enclosing something in a case
brisance;the shattering or crushing effect of a sudden release of energy as in an explosion
sideslip;an unexpected slide
cluster headache;a headache associated with the release of histamine from cells
nakedness;"the state of being without clothing or covering of any kind"
counterexample;refutation by example
reparation;the act of putting something in working order again
presence;the state of being present. current existence. 'he tested for the presence of radon'
peace treaty;a treaty to cease hostilities. 'peace came on november 11th'
iniquity;an unjust act
polypus;a small vascular growth on the surface of a mucous membrane
alleviation;the act of reducing something unpleasant as pain. 'he asked the nurse for relief from the constant pain'
sceptre;the imperial authority symbolized by a scepter
depletion;the state of being depleted
impact;a forceful consequence. 'the book had an important impact on my thinking'
focalization;the act of bringing into focus
deaf mutism;congenital deafness that results in inability to speak
katharsis;purging the body by the use of a cathartic to stimulate evacuation of the bowels
waybill;a receipt from the carrier for the goods being shipped
shocker;a sensational message (in a film or play or novel)
coming upon;a casual meeting with a person of thing
septic sore throat;an infection of the oral pharynx and tonsils by streptococcus
resolution;a statement that solves a problem or explains how to solve the problem. 'they were trying to find a peaceful solution'. 'the answers were in the back of the book'. 'he computed the result to four decimal places'
applesauce;nonsensical talk or writing
acclaim;enthusiastic approval. 'the book met with modest acclaim'. 'he acknowledged the plaudits of the crowd'. 'they gave him more eclat than he really deserved'
creeping;a slow creeping mode of locomotion (on hands and knees or dragging the body). 'a crawl was all that the injured man could manage'. 'the traffic moved at a creep'
tone deafness;an inability to distinguish differences in pitch
hypoxic hypoxia;hypoxia resulting from defective oxygenation of the blood in the lungs
deferment;act of putting off to a future time
offense;a crime less serious than a felony
diluting;weakening (reducing the concentration) by the addition of water or a thinner
constitution;law determining the fundamental political principles of a government
chloasma;a tan discoloration of a woman's face that is associated with pregnancy or with the use of oral contraceptives
secret;information known only to a special group. 'the secret of cajun cooking'
acne;an inflammatory disease involving the sebaceous glands of the skin. characterized by papules or pustules or comedones
gynecomastia;excessive development of the breasts in males. usually the result of hormonal imbalance or treatment with certain drugs (including some antihypertensives)
wit;a message whose ingenuity or verbal skill or incongruity has the power to evoke laughter
dousing;the act of submerging something
staining;(histology) the use of a dye to color specimens for microscopic study
merging;a flowing together (as of rivers)
subclinical absence;transient impairment of cortical function demonstrable only by 3-per-second brain-wave spikes
choking;a condition caused by blocking the airways to the lungs (as with food or swelling of the larynx)
asiatic cholera;an acute intestinal infection caused by ingestion of contaminated water or food
fury;state of violent mental agitation
demolition;the act of demolishing
book;a compilation of the known facts regarding something or someone. 'al smith used to say, 'let's look at the record''. 'his name is in all the recordbooks'
sarcoma;a usually malignant tumor arising from connective tissue (bone or muscle etc.). one of the four major types of cancer
peach blight;a disease of trees bearing drupes
snag;an unforeseen obstacle
sequela;any abnormality following or resulting from a disease or injury or treatment. 'paralysis is one of the sequelae of poliomyelitis'
labor pains;a regularly recurrent spasm of pain that is characteristic of childbirth
comprising;the act of comprising something
tobacco mosaic;a plant disease causing discoloration of the leaves of tobacco plants
fitness;good physical condition. being in shape or in condition
epidural;regional anesthesia resulting from injection of an anesthetic into the epidural space of the spinal cord. sensation is lost in the abdominal and genital and pelvic areas. used in childbirth and gynecological surgery
subject;the subject matter of a conversation or discussion. 'he didn't want to discuss that subject'. 'it was a very sensitive topic'. 'his letters were always on the theme of love'
jock itch;fungal infection of the groin (most common in men)
cleaning;the act of making something clean. 'he gave his shoes a good cleaning'
thwarting;an act of hindering someone's plans or efforts
puzzler;a particularly baffling problem. 'that's a real puzzler'
arrivederci;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
rummage;a jumble of things to be given away
porn;illegal activities designed to stimulate sexual desire
crisis;an unstable situation of extreme danger or difficulty. 'they went bankrupt during the economic crisis'
tone beginning;a decisive manner of beginning a musical tone or phrase
ball hawking;a skillful maneuver in catching balls or in stealing the ball from the opposing team
sprinkling;watering with a sprinkler
canon;a rule or especially body of rules or principles generally established as valid and fundamental in a field or art or philosophy: 'the neoclassical canon'. 'canons of polite society'
gist;the central meaning or theme of a speech or literary work
hypothyroidism;a glandular disorder resulting from insufficient production of thyroid hormones
black knot;disease of plum and cherry trees characterized by black excrescences on the branches
reach;the act of physically reaching or thrusting out
ruffianism;violent lawless behavior
constructive breach;a breach of contract committed prior to the time of required performance
disorderly conduct;any act of molesting or interrupting or hindering or disquieting or agitating or arousing from a state of repose or otherwise depriving inhabitants of the peace and quiet to which they are entitled
figuration;decorating with a design
growth;(pathology) an abnormal proliferation of tissue (as in a tumor)
malpractice;professional wrongdoing that results in injury or damage. 'the widow sued his surgeon for malpractice'
ciao;an acknowledgment that can be used to say hello or goodbye (aloha is hawaiian. ciao is italian)
commercial message;a commercially sponsored ad on radio or television
paroxysmal trepidant abasia;abasia related to spasticity of the legs
neutralization;action intended to keep a country politically neutral or exclude it from a possible war. 'the neutralization of belgium'
acephaly;absence of the head (as in the development of some monsters)
ataxic abasia;abasia due to ataxia of the legs
sternutation;a symptom consisting of the involuntary expulsion of air from the nose
lump;abnormal protuberance or localized enlargement
polish;a highly developed state. 'they performed with great polish'
bill of rights;a statement of fundamental rights and privileges (especially the first ten amendments to the us constitution)
laugh;a humorous anecdote or remark
amyxia;a condition in which no mucus in produced
xanthoma;a skin problem marked by the development (on the eyelids and neck and back) of irregular yellow nodules. sometimes attributable to disturbances of cholesterol metabolism
smell;the general atmosphere of a place or situation. 'the feel of the city excited him'. 'a clergyman improved the tone of the meeting'. 'it had the smell of treason'
litote;an understatement that expresses an affirmative thought negatively. 'printing wasn't a bad idea'
gibber;unintelligible talking
commotion;a disorderly outburst or tumult. 'they were amazed by the furious disturbance they had caused'
billingsgate;foul-mouthed or obscene abuse
opening move;the first of a series of actions. 'he memorized all the important chess openings'
show window;a setting in which something can be displayed to best effect. 'it was a showcase for democracy in africa'
chilblains;inflammation of the hands and feet caused by exposure to cold and moisture
poke;(boxing) a blow with the fist
ascendence;"the state that exists when one person or group has power over another. 'her apparent dominance of her husband was really her attempt to make him pay attention to her'"
tinea unguium;fungal infection of the nails (especially toenails)
existence;"the state or fact of existing: 'a point of view gradually coming into being'. 'laws in existence for centuries'"
con game;a swindle in which you cheat at gambling or persuade a person to buy worthless property
silver spoon;inherited wealth. 'he was born with a silver spoon in his mouth'
rack;a rapid gait of a horse in which each foot strikes the ground separately
tennis stroke;the act of hitting a tennis ball with a tennis racket
international flight;a flight that takes off in one country and lands in another
ulatrophia;recession of the gums
jut;the act of projecting out from something
assertion;a declaration that is made as if no supporting evidence were necessary
downturn;a worsening of business or economic activity. 'the market took a downturn'
lisp;a speech defect that involves pronouncing s like voiceless th and z like voiced th
dive;a steep nose-down descent by an aircraft
shivering;a sensation of cold that often marks the start of an infection and the development of a fever
thoracic actinomycosis;a serious form of actinomycosis that affects the chest
congestion;excessive accumulation of blood or other fluid in a body part
vacuum aspiration;a method of induced abortion. prior to the 14th week of gestation the embryo and placenta are removed by applying suction to the dilated cervix
drunkenness;prolonged and excessive intake of alcoholic drinks leading to a breakdown in health and an addiction to alcohol such that abrupt deprivation leads to severe withdrawal symptoms
face lift;a renovation that improves the outward appearance (as of a building)
drifting;aimless wandering from place to place
paresthesia;abnormal skin sensations (as tingling or tickling or itching or burning) usually associated with peripheral nerve damage
stem canker;rhizoctinia disease of potatoes
shell game;a swindling sleight-of-hand game. victim guesses which of three things a pellet is under
adieu;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
alpha and omega;the basic meaning of something. the crucial part
ticket of leave;a permit formerly given to convicts allowing them to leave prison under specific restrictions
adjournment;the act of postponing to another time or place
drunkenness;the act of drinking alcoholic beverages to excess. 'drink was his downfall'
verbal description;a statement that represents something in words
escalation;an increase to counteract a perceived discrepancy. 'higher wages caused an escalation of prices' or 'there was a gradual escalation of hostilities'
humor;a message whose ingenuity or verbal skill or incongruity has the power to evoke laughter
bowdlerization;the deletion of all passages considered to be indecent
sleeping sickness;an encephalitis that was epidemic between 1915 and 1926. symptoms include paralysis of the extrinsic eye muscle and extreme muscular weakness
ridicule;exposing someone to laughter
indenture;a contract binding one party into the service of another for a specified term
wilting;causing to become limp or drooping
morning;a conventional expression of greeting or farewell
scoff;showing your contempt by derision
mention;a short note acknowledging a source of information or quoting a passage. 'the student's essay failed to list several important citations'. 'the article includes mention of similar clinical cases'
protection;payment extorted by gangsters on threat of violence. 'every store in the neighborhood had to pay him protection'
preexistence;existing in a former state or previous to something else
break;a pause from doing something (as work). 'we took a 10-minute break'. 'he took time out to recuperate'
split;the act of rending or ripping or splitting something. 'he gave the envelope a vigorous rip'
impairment;the condition of being unable to perform as a consequence of physical or mental unfitness
cloture;a rule for ending debate in a deliberative body
cracking;the act of cracking something
drive;a physiological state corresponding to a strong need or desire
bloodbath;indiscriminate slaughter
ill health;a state in which you are unable to function normally and without pain
ill;an often persistent bodily disorder or disease. a cause for complaining
estivation;cessation from or slowing of activity during the summer. especially slowing of metabolism in some animals
forbidden fruit;the original forbidden fruit was an apple from the tree of knowledge of good and evil in the garden of eden. it is now used to refer to anything that is tempting but dangerous (as sexuality)
malignant neoplasm;a tumor that is malignant and tends to spread to other parts of the body
ds;an honorary degree in science
acknowledgement;a statement acknowledging something or someone
neglect;failure to act
neutralisation;action intended to nullify the effects of some previous action
bidding;(bridge) the number of tricks a bridge player is willing to contract to make
jog trot;an easy gait of a horse. midway between a walk and a trot
fatigue fracture;fracture resulting from excessive activity rather than a specific injury
coexistence;existing peacefully together
impediment;something immaterial that interferes with or delays action or progress
kick;the act of delivering a blow with the foot. 'he gave the ball a powerful kick'
asbestosis;lung disease caused by inhaling asbestos particles
commonplace;a trite or obvious remark
misrepresentation;a misleading falsehood
hang up;an unforeseen obstacle
sustentation;the act of sustaining
toxemia;an abnormal condition of pregnancy characterized by hypertension and edema and protein in the urine
conversion disorder;a mental disorder characterized by the conversion of mental conflict into somatic forms (into paralysis or anesthesia having no apparent cause)
jacquemier s sign;a purplish discoloration of the mucuous membrane of the vagina that occurs early in pregnancy
dog bite;a bite inflicted by a dog
orthochorea;a form of chorea in which spasms occur mainly when the patient is erect
vaccinia;a viral disease of cattle causing a mild skin disease affecting the udder. used to innoculate humans against smallpox
pitch;a high approach shot in golf
network architecture;specification of design principles (including data formats and procedures) for creating a network configuration of data processors
fable;a deliberately false or improbable account
ascent;the act of changing location in an upward direction
raw;informal. 'in the raw' or 'in his birthday suit'
offset;a natural consequence of development
nonrapid eye movement sleep;a recurring sleep state during which rapid eye movements do not occur and dreaming does not occur. accounts for about 75% of normal sleep time
urinary hesitancy;difficulty in beginning the flow of urine. associated with prostate enlargement in men and with narrowing of the urethral opening in women. may be caused by emotional stress in either men or women
invalidation;a formal termination (of a relationship or a judicial proceeding etc)
garboil;a state of commotion and loud confused noise
disruption;an act of delaying or interrupting the continuity. 'it was presented without commercial breaks'
violation;a crime less serious than a felony
care;activity involved in maintaining something in good working order. 'he wrote the manual on car care'
anoxemia;abnormally low oxygen content in arterial blood
inanition;exhaustion resulting from lack of food
sayonara;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
adult onset diabetes;diabetes mellitus that develops in adults. can be precipitated by obesity or severe stress or menopause or other factors
philosophizing;the exposition (often superficially) of a particular philosophy
nephritis;an inflammation of the kidney
natural event;"an event that happens"
mischief;reckless or malicious behavior that causes discomfort or annoyance in others
carom;a shot in billiards in which the cue ball contacts one object ball and then the other
insulin reaction;hypoglycemia produced by excessive insulin in the system causing coma
type ii diabetes;diabetes mellitus that develops in adults. can be precipitated by obesity or severe stress or menopause or other factors
mathematical statement;a statement of a mathematical relation
break;breaking of hard tissue such as bone. 'it was a nasty fracture'. 'the break seems to have been caused by a fall'
self reformation;the act of improving yourself
single foot;a rapid gait of a horse in which each foot strikes the ground separately
transmogrification;changing into a different form or appearance especially a fantastic or grotesque one: 'transmogrification into a porcupine'
duplicity;acting in bad faith. deception by pretending to entertain one set of intentions while acting under the influence of another
inside information;true confidential information. 'after the trial he gave us the real details'
rocky mountain spotted fever;caused by a rickettsia microorganism and transmitted by wood ticks
miasma;an unwholesome atmosphere. 'the novel spun a miasma of death and decay'
purpura hemorrhagica;purpura of unknown origin associated with a reduction in circulating blood platelets
order;"a condition of regular or proper arrangement: 'he put his desk in order'. 'put the chessmen in order'"
viatical settlement;sale of an insurance policy by a terminally ill policy holder
twisting;the act of rotating rapidly. 'he gave the crank a spin'. 'it broke off after much twisting'
disorderliness;rowdy behavior
trifle;a detail that is considered insignificant
acardia;congenital absence of the heart (as in the development of some monsters)
cephalalgia;pain in the head caused by dilation of cerebral arteries or muscle contractions or a reaction to drugs
coming;the act of drawing spatially closer to something. 'the hunter's approach scattered the geese'
swerve;the act of turning aside suddenly
ecology;the environment as it relates to living organisms. 'it changed the ecology of the island'
state s evidence;evidence for the prosecution in criminal proceedings
cognitive factor;"something immaterial (as a circumstance or influence) that contributes to producing a result"
sleep apnea;apnea that occurs during sleep
instigation;the verbal act of urging on
welt;a raised mark on the skin (as produced by a blow)
hepatitis a;minor form of viral hepatitis caused by an rna virus and transmitted by ingesting contaminated food or drink
stymie;a thwarting and distressing situation
comfort;a freedom from financial difficulty that promotes a comfortable state: 'a life of luxury and ease'. 'he had all the material comforts of this world'
whitelash;backlash by white racists against black civil rights advances
tidiness;the habit of being tidy
magnification;the act of expanding something in apparent size
motion;a change of position that does not entail a change of location. 'the reflex movements of his eyebrows revealed his surprise'.
ankylosing spondylitis;a chronic form of spondylitis primarily in males and marked by impaired mobility of the spine. sometimes leads to ankylosis
place bet;a bet that a horse will finish a race no worse than second
ennoblement;"the state of being noble"
terrorization;an act of terrorism
angina;any disease of the throat or fauces marked by spasmodic attacks of intense suffocative pain
sacking;the act of terminating someone's employment
hypotension;abnormally low blood pressure
cirrhosis of the liver;a chronic disease interfering with the normal functioning of the liver. the major cause is chronic alcoholism
dutch elm disease;disease of elms caused by a fungus
rap;a reproach for some lapse or misdeed. 'he took the blame for it'. 'it was a bum rap'
jeer;showing your contempt by derision
disaster;an act that has disastrous consequences
stream;something that resembles a flowing stream in moving continuously. 'a stream of people emptied from the terminal'. 'the museum had planned carefully for the flow of visitors'
segmentation;separation by the creation of a boundary that divides or keeps apart
white backlash;backlash by white racists against black civil rights advances
school phobia;a child's sudden fear of attending school
crack;witty remark
anemia;a deficiency of red blood cells
souse;the act of making something completely wet
sense;what you must know in order to determine the reference of an expression
curtain lecture;a private lecture to a husband by his wife
cataract;clouding of the natural lens of the eye
overhaul;periodic maintenance on a car or machine. 'it was time for an overhaul on the tractor'
photo credit;a note acknowledging the source of a published photograph
floating policy;an insurance policy covering loss of movable property (e.g. jewelry) regardless of its location
ischemic anoxia;anoxia resulting from slow peripheral circulation (such as follows congestive cardiac failure)
flicker;the act of moving back and forth
kidney disease;a disease affecting the kidneys
relaxation;the act of making less strict
oversimplification;excessive simplification (to the point of misrepresentation)
suspicion;the state of being suspected. 'he tried to shield me from suspicion'
study;a written document describing the findings of some individual or group. 'this accords with the recent study by hill and dale'
air;travel via aircraft. 'air travel involves too much waiting in airports'. 'if you've time to spare go by air'
wandering;travelling about without any clear destination
typo;a mistake in printed matter resulting from mechanical failures of some kind
ophthalmitis;severe conjunctivitis
alder blight;a disease of alders caused by the woolly alder aphid (a plant louse)
air travel;travel via aircraft. 'air travel involves too much waiting in airports'. 'if you've time to spare go by air'
banishment;the state of being banished or ostracized (excluded from society by general consent)
chalazion;a small sebaceous cyst of the eyelid resulting when a meibomian gland is blocked
gambling game;a game that involves gambling
electrocution;killing by electric shock
indecent exposure;vulgar and offensive nakedness in a public place
numbness;partial or total lack of sensation in a part of the body. a symptom of nerve damage or dysfunction
purgation;an act of removing by cleansing. ridding of sediment or other other undesired elements
move;the act of changing your residence or place of business. 'they say that three moves equal one fire'
hypothesis;a proposal intended to explain certain facts or observations
gastrointestinal disorder;illness caused by poisonous or contaminated food
connotation;what you must know in order to determine the reference of an expression
aphagia;loss of the ability to swallow
two tier bid;a takeover bid where the acquirer offers to pay more for the shares needed to gain control than for the remaining shares
afibrinogenemia;the absence of fibrinogen in the plasma leading to prolonged bleeding
algophobia;a morbid fear of pain
betrayal;an act of deliberate betrayal
neurological disorder;a disorder of the nervous system
amelioration;the act of relieving ills and changing for the better
abolishment;the act of abolishing
otitis media;inflammation of the middle ear. common in children
news report;a short account of the news. 'the report of his speech'. 'the story was on the 11 o'clock news'. 'the account of his speech that was given on the evening news made the governor furious'
good word;good news
pretence;the act of pretending
marriage counseling;counseling on marital problems and disagreements
strengthening;the act of increasing the strength of something
fire and brimstone;(old testament) god's means of destroying sinners. 'his sermons were full of fire and brimstone'
chomping;the act of chewing noisily
expurgation;the deletion of all passages considered to be indecent
data formatting;the organization of information according to preset specifications (usually for computer processing)
implicating;a charge that implicates someone (usually of wrongdoing)
alveolitis;inflammation in the socket of a tooth. sometimes occurs after a tooth is extracted and a blood clot fails to form
pleuralgia;pain in the chest caused by inflammation of the muscles between the ribs
associate in applied science;an associate degree in applied science
character reference;a formal recommendation by a former employer to a potential future employer describing the person's qualifications and dependability. 'requests for character references are all to often answered evasively'
compliment;a remark (or act) expressing praise and admiration
cold sweat;concurrent perspiration and chill. associated with fear
recession;the act of ceding back
thrombophlebitis;phlebitis in conjunction with the formation of a blood clot (thrombus)
daltonism;inability to distinguish green and purplish-red
drive by shooting;shooting someone from a car as it is driven past the victim
aberrancy;an aberrant state or condition
refinement;a highly developed state. 'they performed with great polish'
letter;an award earned by participation in a school sport. 'he won letters in three sports'
abduction;the criminal act of capturing and carrying away by force a family member. if a man's wife is abducted it is a crime against the family relationship and against the wife
mycosis;an inflammatory condition caused by a fungus
backsliding;a failure to maintain a higher state
guff;a ludicrously false statement
local anesthesia;loss of sensation in a small area of the body (as when a local anesthetic is injected for a tooth extraction)
sketch;a humorous or satirical drawing published in a newspaper or magazine
diastasis;separation of an epiphysis from the long bone to which it is normally attached without fracture of the bone
employ;"the state of being employed or having a job. 'they are looking for employment'. 'he was in the employ of the city'"
jog;a slow pace of running
ease;freedom from activity (work or strain or responsibility). 'took his repose by the swimming pool'
scheme;a statement that evades the question by cleverness or trickery
aleppo boil;leishmaniasis of the skin. characterized by ulcerative skin lesions
polio;an acute viral disease marked by inflammation of nerve cells of the brain stem and spinal cord
service;periodic maintenance on a car or machine. 'it was time for an overhaul on the tractor'
falsity;a false statement
funniness;a comic incident or series of incidents
anonymous ftp;a common way to make software available. users are allowed to log in as 'guest' without a password and copy whatever has been made available
tension;a balance between and interplay of opposing elements or tendencies (especially in art or literature). 'there is a tension created between narrative time and movie time'. 'there is a tension between these approaches to understanding history'
breakup;the termination of a relationship
dilatory plea;a plea that delays the action without settling the cause of action. it can challenge the jurisdiction or claim disability of the defendant etc. (such defenses are usually raised in the defendant's answer)
keratoiritis;inflammation of the cornea and the iris of the eye
natural;(in craps) a first roll of 7 or 11 that immediately wins the stake
ms;a master's degree in science
incumbrance;an onerous or difficult concern. 'the burden of responsibility'. 'that's a load off my mind'
hypocapnia;a state in which the level of carbon dioxide in the blood is lower than normal. can result from deep or rapid breathing
gooseflesh;symptom of coldness
phalangitis;inflammation of a finger or toe
autism;(psychiatry) an abnormal absorption with the self. marked by communication disorders and short attention span and inability to treat others as people
affliction;a condition of suffering or distress due to ill health
passion;the suffering of jesus at the crucifixion
syph;a common venereal disease caused by the treponema pallidum spirochete. symptoms change through progressive stages. can be congenital (transmitted through the placenta)
merger;the combination of two or more commercial companies
ergot;a plant disease caused by the ergot fungus
sheep rot;a disease of the liver (especially in sheep and cattle) caused by liver flukes and their by-products
fever;a rise in the temperature of the body. frequently a symptom of infection
kuru;a progressive disease of the central nervous system marked by increasing lack of coordination and advancing to paralysis and death within a year of the appearance of symptoms. thought to have been transmitted by cannibalistic consumption of diseased brain tissue since the disease virtually disappeared when cannibalism was abandoned
bachelor of science in engineering;a bachelor's degree in engineering
nude;as in the phrase 'they swam in the nude'
expedition;a journey taken for pleasure. 'many summer excursions to the shore'. 'it was merely a pleasure trip'. 'after cautious sashays into the field'
false statement;a false statement
chip;the act of chipping something
branch;a natural consequence of development
zinc deficiency;a deficiency caused by inadequate zinc in the diet or by liver disease or cystic fibrosis or other diseases
dissociation;the act of removing from association
burlesque;a composition that imitates somebody's style in a humorous way
differential equation;an equation containing differentials of a function
hyperactivity;a condition characterized by excessive restlessness and movement
literal interpretation;an interpretation based on the exact wording
remark;a statement that expresses a personal opinion or belief. 'from time to time she contributed a personal comment on his account'
release;(music) the act or manner of terminating a musical phrase or tone
unilateral contract;a one-sided agreement whereby you promise to do (or refrain from doing) something in return for a performance (not a promise)
pancreatitis;inflammation of the pancreas
infantile amaurotic idiocy;a hereditary disorder of lipid metabolism occuring most frequently in individuals of e european jewish descent. accumulation of lipids in nervous tissue results in death in early childhood
ambiance;"a particular environment or surrounding influence. 'there was an atmosphere of excitement'"
precession;the motion of a spinning body (as a top) in which it wobbles so that the axis of rotation sweeps out a cone
reality;the state of being actual or real: 'the reality of his situation slowly dawned on him'
founding;starting something for the first time
ataxic aphasia;aphasia in which expression by speech or writing is severely impaired
autoimmunity;production of antibodies against the tissues of your own body. produces autoimmune disease or hypersensitivity reactions
king s evil;a form of tuberculosis characterized by swellings of the lymphatic glands
costiasis;a fatal disease of fresh-water fish caused by a flagellated protozoan invading the skin
insistency;the state of urgently demanding notice or attention. 'the press of business matters'
leukoderma;a congenital skin condition characterized by spots or bands of unpigmented skin
extremity;an extreme condition or state (especially of adversity or disease)
state;the way something is with respect to its main attributes. 'the current state of knowledge'. 'his state of health'. 'in a weak financial state'
journeying;the act of traveling from one place to another
drunkenness;a temporary state resulting from excessive consumption of alcohol
update;news that updates your information
finishing;the act of finishing. 'the speaker's finish was greeted with applause'
intoxication;a temporary state resulting from excessive consumption of alcohol
scoliosis;an abnormal lateral curve to the vertebral column
howler;a joke that seems extremely funny
hypoxia;a very strong drive resulting from oxygen deficiency in bodily tissues (short of anoxia)
qualification;the act of modification or changing the strength of some idea. 'his new position involves a qualification of his party's platform'
upending;turning upside down
mention;an official recognition of merit. 'although he didn't win the prize he did get special mention'
rush;the act of moving hurriedly and in a careless manner. 'in his haste to leave he forgot his book'
appreciation;an expression of gratitude. 'he expressed his appreciation in a short note'
polyneuritis;inflammation of many or all of the peripheral nerves
marie strumpell disease;a chronic form of spondylitis primarily in males and marked by impaired mobility of the spine. sometimes leads to ankylosis
absence;the state of being absent. 'he was surprised by the absence of any explanation'
turn;turning away or in the opposite direction: 'he made an abrupt turn away from her'
bed check;a check that everyone is in bed by the time they should be
debarment;legal prevention
dph;a doctor's degree in preventive medicine
favorable reception;acceptance as satisfactory. 'he bought it on aproval'
croix de guerre;a french military decoration for gallantry
porphyria;a genetic abnormality of metabolism causing abdominal pains and mental confusion
rousing;the act of arousing. 'the purpose of art is the arousal of emotions'
digression;a turning aside (of your course or attention or concern): 'a diversion from the main highway'. 'a digression into irrelevant details'. 'a deflection from his goal'
transfusion;the introduction of blood or blood plasma into a vein or artery
wound;any break in the skin or an organ caused by violence or surgical incision
derivation;drawing of fluid or inflammation away from a diseased part of the body
luxuriousness;wealth as evidenced by sumptuous living
costochondritis;inflammation at the junction of a rib and its cartilage
smear;an act that brings discredit to the person who does it. 'he made a huge blot on his copybook'
predicament;a situation from which extrication is difficult especially an unpleasant or trying one: 'finds himself in a most awkward predicament'. 'the woeful plight of homeless people'
canard;a deliberately misleading fabrication
vibration;the act of vibrating
incomplete fracture;fracture that does not go across the entire width of the bone
cholera infantum;often fatal form occurring in children. not true cholera but having similar symptoms
musd;a doctor's degree in music
stricture;abnormal narrowing of a bodily canal or passageway
acanthocytosis;the presence of acanthocytes in the blood stream (as in abetalipoproteinemia)
turmoil;a disorderly outburst or tumult. 'they were amazed by the furious disturbance they had caused'
indirect evidence;evidence providing only a basis for inference about the fact in dispute
crash dive;a rapid descent by a submarine
air;nowhere to be found in a giant void. 'it vanished into thin air'
cretinism;severe hypothyroidism resulting in physical and mental stunting
supremacy;power to dominate or defeat. 'mastery of the seas'
inclining;the act of inclining. bending forward. 'an inclination of his head indicated his agreement'
plantar wart;a wart occurring on the sole of the foot. 'pressure causes plantar warts to develop a painful callus around the soft center'
metrication;the act of changing from imperial units of measurement to metric units: meters, grams, seconds
contents;a list of divisions (chapters or articles) and the pages on which they start
rubric;an explanation or definition of an obscure word in a text
parasailing;gliding in a parasail
flood;the act of flooding. filling to overflowing
rest;a state of inaction. 'a body will continue in a state of rest until acted upon'
scurvy;a condition caused by deficiency of ascorbic acid (vitamin c)
fluoridation;the addition of a fluoride to the water supply (to prevent dental decay)
trouble;a state of adversity (danger or affliction or need). 'in trouble with the police'. 'he wanted to cure the ills of all mankind'. 'she was the classic maiden in distress'
corrigenda;a list of printing errors in a book along with their corrections
knockout punch;a hard punch that renders the opponent unable to continue boxing
etiquette;rules governing socially acceptable behavior
phthisis;involving the lungs with progressive wasting of the body
lethargic encephalitis;an encephalitis that was epidemic between 1915 and 1926. symptoms include paralysis of the extrinsic eye muscle and extreme muscular weakness
mals;a master's degree in library science
crawl;a slow creeping mode of locomotion (on hands and knees or dragging the body). 'a crawl was all that the injured man could manage'. 'the traffic moved at a creep'
template;a model or standard for making comparisons
exhibitionism;the perverse act of exposing and attracting attention to your own genitals
ring rot;disease of tomatoes and potatoes and tobacco etc caused by the bacterium pseudomonas solanacearum
cabbalah;an esoteric or occult matter that is traditionally secret
fork;the act of branching out or dividing into branches
quiver;a shaky motion. 'the shaking of his fingers as he lit his pipe'
preinvasive cancer;a cluster of malignant cells that has not yet invaded the deeper epithelial tissue or spread to other parts of the body
apple blight;a disease of apple trees
cystic fibrosis;a congenital disease in which the pancreas and lungs and intestines become clogged with mucus
sorrow;something that causes great unhappiness. 'her death was a great grief to john'
hardening of the arteries;sclerosis of the arterial walls
drawing off;act of getting or draining something such as electricity or a liquid from a source: 'the drawing of water from the well'
flit;a secret move (to avoid paying debts). 'they did a moonlight flit'
service of process;the act of delivering a writ or summons upon someone. 'he accepted service of the subpoena'
bisection;dividing into two equal parts
accusal;a formal charge of wrongdoing brought against a person. an imputation of blame or guilt
boarding card;a pass that allows you to board a ship or plane
soldiering;the evasion of work or duty
regrets;the polite declining of an invitation
callus;an area of skin that is thick or hard from continual pressure or friction (as the sole of the foot)
leading indicator;one of 11 indicators for different sections of the economy. used by the department of commerce to predict economic trends in the near future
ritual killing;the act of killing (an animal or person) in order to propitiate a deity
congenital disease;a disease or disorder that is inherited genetically
status asthmaticus;a prolonged and severe asthma attack that does not respond to standard treatment
meniere s disease;a disease of the inner ear characterized by episodes of dizziness and tinnitus and progressive hearing loss (usually unilateral)
aortic aneurysm;an aneurysm of the aorta
anemia;a lack of vitality
acarophobia;a morbid fear of small insects and mites and worms
rallying point;a point or principle on which scattered or opposing groups can come together
nausea;the state that precedes vomiting
open fracture;bone fracture associated with lacerated soft tissue or an open wound
causalgia;a burning pain in a limb along the course of a peripheral nerve. usually associated with skin changes
handout;an announcement distributed to members of the press in order to supplement or replace an oral presentation
brachytactyly;abnormal shortness of fingers and toes
infringement;an act that disregards an agreement or a right. 'he claimed a violation of his rights under the fifth amendment'
luxury;wealth as evidenced by sumptuous living
dirtying;the act of soiling something
voidance;the act of removing the contents of something
deforestation;the state of being clear of trees
katharsis;(psychoanalysis) purging of emotional tensions
soberness;the state of being sober
detention;the act of delaying
hematuria;the presence of blood in the urine. often a symptom of urinary tract disease
twaddle;pretentious or silly talk or writing
chromosomal aberration;any change in the normal structure or number of chromosomes. often results in physical or mental abnormalities
preserve;a domain that seems to be specially reserved for someone. 'medicine is no longer a male preserve'
skin eruption;any eruption of the skin
bright s disease;an inflammation of the kidney
racial extermination;systematic killing of a racial or cultural group
peace;the general security of public places. 'he was arrested for disturbing the peace'
turn on;(informal) something causing excitement or stimulating interest
breaststroke;a swimming stroke. the arms are extended together in front of the head and swept back on either side accompanied by a frog kick
lift;a ride in a car. 'he gave me a lift home'
bringing close together;the act of bringing near or bringing together especially the cut edges of tissue
hungriness;a physiological need for food
upset stomach;a disorder of digestive function characterized by discomfort or heartburn or nausea
god s will;the omnipotence of a divine being
upheaval;disturbance usually in protest
upheaval;a state of violent disturbance and disorder (as in politics or social conditions generally). 'the industrial revolution was a period of great turbulence'
postulate;in logic: a proposition that is accepted as true in order to provide a basis for logical reasoning
genu varum;a leg bowed outward at the knee (or below the knee)
warrant;a written assurance that some product or service will be provided or will meet certain specifications
constellation;"an arrangement of parts or elements. 'the outcome depends on the configuration of influences at the time'"
herniation;rupture in smooth muscle tissue through which a bodily structure protrudes
waiver;a formal written statement of relinquishment
hyperplasia;abnormal increase in number of cells
parkinson s law;c. northcote parkinson's cynical observation that the number of subordinates in an organization will increase linearly regardless of the amount of work to be done
sinus headache;a headache resulting from congestion or infection in the paranasal sinuses
rain check;a promise that an unaccepted offer will be renewed in the future
chastening;a rebuke for making a mistake
junction;the state of being joined
baloney;pretentious or silly talk or writing
fuckup;an embarrassing mistake
portraiture;a word picture of a person's appearance and character
illustration;a single item of information that is representative of a type. 'this patient provides a typical example of the syndrome'. 'there is a good example on page 10'
meaning;the message that is intended or expressed
shambling;walking with a slow dragging motion without lifting your feet
wholesale price index;an index of changes in wholesale prices
percussion;the act of exploding a percussion cap
botheration;something or someone that causes trouble. a source of unhappiness. 'a bit of a bother'
acroanesthesia;loss of sensation in the extremities
hypothesis;a message expressing an opinion based on incomplete evidence
vogue;a current state of general acceptance and use
personality disorder;inflexible and maladaptive patterns of behavior
deferral;a state of abeyance or suspended business
mitigating circumstance;(law) a circumstance that does not exonerate a person but which reduces the penalty associated with the offense
roving;travelling about without any clear destination
tobacco wilt;disease of tomatoes and potatoes and tobacco etc caused by the bacterium pseudomonas solanacearum
chest pain;pain in the chest
triviality;a detail that is considered insignificant
aliveness;the condition of living or the state of being alive. 'while there's life there's hope'. 'life depends on many chemical and physical processes'
explication;an explanation of the meaning of something
shipping articles;a contract between crew and captain of a ship
eroticism;a state of anticipation of sexuality
ira;belligerence aroused by a real or supposed wrong (personified as one of the deadly sins)
kicking;the act of delivering a blow with the foot. 'he gave the ball a powerful kick'
acclamation;enthusiastic approval. 'the book met with modest acclaim'. 'he acknowledged the plaudits of the crowd'. 'they gave him more eclat than he really deserved'
using up;the act of consuming something
muff;dropping the ball (in baseball or football)
forehand drive;hard straight return made on the forehand side (as in tennis or badminton or squash)
terrain flight;flight at very low altitudes
rowdyism;rowdy behavior
exposition;an interpretation of the meaning of something
chronic myelocytic leukemia;chronic leukemia characterized by granular leukocytes. more common in older people
seborrheic keratosis;a skin condition characterized by circumscribed wartlike lesions that can be itchy and covered with a greasy crust
kudos;an expression of approval and commendation. 'he always appreciated praise for his work'
hypermetropy;abnormal condition in which vision for distant objects is better than for near objects
caravanning;the practice of taking holidays in a caravan
nanocephaly;an abnormally small head and underdeveloped brain
cheerio;a farewell remark. 'they said their good-byes'
peptic ulcer;an ulcer of mucuous membrane of the alimentary tract
culpableness;a state of guilt
business index;a statistical compilation that provides a context for economic or financial conditions. 'this business index is computed relative to the base year of 1995'
scrummage;(rugby) the method of beginning play in which the forwards of each team crouch side by side with locked arms. play starts when the ball is put between them and the two sides compete for possession
premiss;a statement that is assumed to be true and from which a conclusion can be drawn. 'on the assumption that he has been injured we can infer that he will not to play'
postponement;act of putting off to a future time
spit and polish;careful attention to order and appearance (as in the military)
protection;the condition of being protected. 'they were huddled together for protection'. 'he enjoyed a sense of peace and protection in his new home'
gingivitis;inflammation of the gums
offence;a crime less serious than a felony
cecity;lack of sight
capture;the act of taking of a person by force
ps;a note appended to a letter after the signature
brickbat;blunt criticism
shadowing;the act of following someone secretly
disinvestment;the withdrawal of capital from a country or corporation
purgatory;a temporary condition of torment or suffering: 'a purgatory of drug abuse'
plague;a serious (sometimes fatal) infection transmitted by the bite of an infected rat flea (especially bubonic plague)
jumble;a confused multitude of things
nightmare;a situation resembling a terrifying dream
myopia;(ophthalmology) eyesight abnormality resulting from the eye's faulty refractive ability
broil;cooking by direct exposure to radiant heat (as over a fire or under a grill)
formula;a group of symbols that make a mathematical statement
inflammation;a response of body tissues to injury or irritation. characterized by pain and swelling and redness and heat
spruceness;the state of being neat and smart and trim
liver disease;a disease affecting the liver
razing;complete destruction of a building
condition;"information that should be kept in mind when making a decision. 'another consideration is the time it would take'"
coattails effect;(politics) the consequence of one popular candidate in an election drawing votes for other members of the same party. 'he was elected senator on the president's coattails'
oscar;an annual award by the academy of motion picture arts and sciences for achievements in motion picture production and performance
transmission control protocol;a set of protocols (including tcp) developed for the internet in the 1970s to get data from one network device to another
hyperbilirubinemia;abnormally high amounts of bilirubin in the blood
thinking cap;a state in which one thinks
to do;a disorderly outburst or tumult. 'they were amazed by the furious disturbance they had caused'
backache;an ache localized in the back
evidence;"your basis for belief or disbelief. knowledge on which to base belief. 'the evidence that smoking causes lung cancer is very compelling'"
raj;british dominion over india (1757-1947)
revision;the act of transforming. 'it would require a drastic revision of his opinion'
lurch;abrupt up-and-down motion (as caused by a ship or other conveyance). 'the pitching and tossing was quite exciting'
parkinson s disease;a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterized by tremor and impaired muscular coordination
vaginitis;inflammation of the vagina (usually associated with candidiasis)
butchery;the savage and excessive killing of people
section;the cutting of or into body tissues or organs (especially by a surgeon as part of an operation)
mistake;a wrong action attributable to bad judgment or ignorance or inattention. 'the fault was all mine'
acetonuria;excessive amounts of ketone bodies in the urine as in diabetes mellitus or starvation
psammoma;a tumor derived from fibrous tissue of the meninges or choroid plexus or certain other structures associated with the brain. characterized by sand-like particles
god s wisdom;the omniscience of a divine being
catastrophic illness;severe illness requiring prolonged hospitalization or recovery. usually involves high costs for hospitals and doctors and medicines
closing;a concluding action
good fortune;a auspicious state resulting from favorable outcomes
lld;an honorary law degree
adenitis;inflammation of a gland or lymph node
low level flight;flight at very low altitudes
epithelioma;a malignant tumor of the epithelial tissue
credit application;an application for a line of credit
texas fever;an infectious disease of cattle transmitted by the cattle tick
glumness;an atmosphere of depression and melancholy. 'gloom pervaded the office'
glandular disorder;a disorder of the glands of the body
infolding;the folding in of an outer layer so as to form a pocket in the surface
disapprobation;an expression of strong disapproval. pronouncing as wrong or morally culpable. 'his uncompromising condemnation of racism'
felicitation;acknowledgement that someone has an occasion for celebration
commission;the state of being in good working order and ready for operation. 'put the ships into comission'. 'the motor was out of commission'
binomial theorem;a theorem giving the expansion of a binomial raised to a given power
sex drive;a physiological need for sexual activity. 'testosterone is responsible for the male sex drive'
holdup;robbery at gunpoint
suicide;killing yourself
buyer s market;a market in which more people want to sell than want to buy
civil wrong;any wrongdoing for which and action for damages may be brought
slump;a long-term economic state characterized by unemployment and low prices and low levels of trade and investment
acute lymphoblastic leukemia;acute leukemia characterized by proliferation of immature lymphoblast-like cells in bone marrow, lymph nodes, spleen, and blood. most common in children
voyage;an act of traveling by water
paradoxical sleep;a recurring sleep state during which dreaming occurs. a state of rapid eye movements during sleep
incomplete abortion;termination of pregnancy without expulsion of all of the products of conception
streptococcal sore throat;an infection of the oral pharynx and tonsils by streptococcus
explicit definition;a definition that gives an exact equivalent of the term defined
diestrus;(of animals having several estrous cycles in one breeding season) a state or interval of sexual inactivity or quiescence between periods of activity
piltdown man;a supposedly primitive man later proven to be a hoax
myosis;an acute infectious disease occurring in epidemic form and featuring paroxysms of pain (usually in the chest)
asynclitism;the presentation during labor of the head of the fetus at an abnormal angle
canker;an ulceration (especially of the lips or living of the mouth)
thereness;real existence. 'things are really there...capture the thereness of them'--charles hopkinson
spavin;a swelling of the hock joint of a horse. resulting in lameness
struma;enlarged thyroid gland resulting from iodine deficiency
dust contamination;the act of contaminating with dust particles
deformation;the act of twisting or deforming the shape of something (e.g., oneself)
impotence;an inability (usually of a male) to copulate
focusing;the act of bringing into focus
entertainment deduction;deduction allowed for some (limited) kinds of entertainment for business purposes
nobel prize;an annual award for outstanding contributions to chemistry or physics or physiology and medicine or literature or economics or peace
wretchedness;a state of ill-being due to affliction or misfortune. 'the misery and wretchedness of those slums is intolerable'
gliding;the activity of flying a glider
renal insufficiency;insufficient excretion of wastes by the kidneys
syllabication;forming or dividing words into syllables
unction;excessive but superficial compliments given with affected charm
hustle;a rapid bustling commotion
reversal;a change from one state to the opposite state. 'there was a reversal of autonomic function'
upsurge;a sudden or abrupt strong increase: 'stimulated a surge of speculation'. 'an upsurge of emotion'. 'an upsurge in violent crime'
stroll;a leisurely walk (usually in some public place)
hearing impairment;impairment of the sense of hearing
bull nose;a disease of pigs resulting in swelling of the snout
snip;the act of clipping or snipping
spur blight;a disease of raspberries
wallop;a severe blow
shit;a ludicrously false statement
cheat;the act of swindling by some fraudulent scheme: 'that book is a fraud'
coprolalia;an uncontrollable use of obscene language. often accompanied by mental disorders
declination;the polite declining of an invitation
divergence;the act of drawing apart: 'an angle is formed by the divergence of straight lines'
circumvention;the act of evading by going around
expedition;a journey organized for a particular purpose
knife thrust;a thrusting blow with a knife
hindrance;something immaterial that interferes with or delays action or progress
prevention;the act of preventing
stagnant hypoxia;hypoxia resulting from slow peripheral circulation (such as follows congestive cardiac failure)
angriness;the state of being angry
xanthemia;excess carotene in the blood stream. can cause the skin to turn a pale yellow-red color
black lung;lung disease caused by inhaling coal dust
swamp;a situation fraught with difficulties and imponderables. 'he was trapped in a medical swamp'
migraine;a severe recurring vascular headache. occur more frequently in women than men
sound alphabet;an alphabet of characters intended to represent specific sounds of speech
dressing;making fertile as by applying fertilizer or manure
birling;rotating a log rapidly in the water (as a competitive sport)
reflexion;a remark expressing careful consideration
rehash;old material that is slightly reworked and used again. 'merely a dull rehash of his first novel'
realm;a domain in which something is dominant. 'the untroubled kingdom of reason'. 'a land of make-believe'. 'the rise of the realm of cotton in the south'
prodrome;an early symptom that a disease is developing or that an attack is about to occur
first degree burn;redness of the skin surface
nevoid elephantiasis;thickening of the skin (usually unilateral on an extremity) caused by congenital enlargement of lymph vessel and lymph vessel obstruction
commination;a threat of divine punishment or vengeance
mudra;ritual hand movement in hindu religious dancing
asynergia;absence of coordination of organs or body parts that usually work together harmoniously
reception;the manner in which something is greeted. 'she did not expect the cold reception she received from her superiors'
origin;an event that is a beginning. a first part or stage of subsequent events
impaction;a condition in which a tooth is so crowded in its socket that it cannot erupt normally
paresis;a slight or partial paralysis
jejunitis;inflammation of the jejunum of the small intestine
crawling;a slow creeping mode of locomotion (on hands and knees or dragging the body). 'a crawl was all that the injured man could manage'. 'the traffic moved at a creep'
soaring;the activity of flying a glider
haemophilia;congenital tendency to uncontrolled bleeding. usually affects males and is transmitted from mother to son
hocus pocus;verbal misrepresentation intended to take advantage of you in some way
staphylococcal infection;an infection with staphylococcus bacteria. usually marked by abscess formation
carte du jour;a list of dishes available at a restaurant. 'the menu was in french'
prosperity;an economic state of growth with rising profits and full employment
slip;a socially awkward or tactless act
copy;material suitable for a journalistic account. 'catastrophes make good copy'
hot air;loud and confused and empty talk. 'mere rhetoric'
temporal lobe epilepsy;epilepsy characterized clinically by impairment of consciousness and amnesia for the episode. often involves purposeful movements of the arms and legs and sometimes hallucinations
candidiasis;an infection caused by fungi of the genus monilia or candida (especially candida albicans)
news;new information of any kind. 'it was news to me'
object oriented database;a database in which the operations carried out on information items (data objects) are considered part of their definition
counsel;direction or advice as to a decision or course of action
poste restante;an address written on mail that is to be held at the post office until called for (not in us or canada)
amortisation;the reduction of the value of an asset by prorating its cost over a period of years
gravidity;a technical term for pregnancy
underdevelopment;state of inadequate development: 'much poverty can be traced to the underdevelopment of industry'
deposit;a payment given as a guarantee that an obligation will be met
bachelor of arts in library science;a bachelor's degree in library science
imposture;pretending to be another person
raffle;a lottery in which the prizes are goods rather than money
allusion;passing reference or indirect mention
cannulation;the insertion of a cannula into a body cavity
burn;pain that feels hot as if it were on fire
freedom;"the condition of being free. the power to act or speak or think without externally imposed restraints"
ire;belligerence aroused by a real or supposed wrong (personified as one of the deadly sins)
bottom rot;fungous disease of lettuce that first rots lower leaves and spreads upward
intimidation;a communication that makes you afraid to try something
diestrum;(of animals having several estrous cycles in one breeding season) a state or interval of sexual inactivity or quiescence between periods of activity
