ventriloquist;a performer who projects the voice into a wooden dummy
imp;(folklore) fairies that are somewhat mischievous
warren harding;29th president of the united states. two of his appointees were involved in the teapot dome scandal (1865-1823)
emeer;an independent ruler or chieftain (especially in africa or arabia)
slayer;someone who causes the death of a person or animal
pindar;greek lyric poet (518-438 bc)
nagger;someone (especially a woman) who annoys people by constantly finding fault
latitudinarian;a person who is broad-minded and tolerant (especially in standards of religious belief and conduct)
cyborg;a human being whose body has been taken over in whole or in part by electromechanical devices. 'a cyborg is a cybernetic organism'
conservative;a person who has conservative ideas or opinions
morosoph;a learned fool
seraph;an angel of the first order. usually portrayed as the winged head of a child
missy;a young woman. 'a young lady of 18'
mail clerk;a clerk in a post office
bluejacket;a serviceman in the navy
board member;a member of a governing board
hostess;a woman steward on an airplane
tutee;learns from a tutor
heart surgeon;a specialist in cardiology. a specialist in the structure and function and disorders of the heart
filibuster;a legislator who gives long speeches in an effort to delay or obstruct legislation that he (or she) opposes
augustine;one of the fathers of the roman catholic church. after a dramatic conversion to christianity he became bishop of hippo in north africa (354-430)
canuck;us slang for canadians in general and french canadians in particular
toll collector;someone employed to collect tolls
paragon;model of excellence or perfection of a kind. one having no equal
eunuch;a man who has been castrated and is incapable of reproduction. 'eunuchs guarded the harem'
bitch;a woman who is thoroughly disliked. 'she said her son thought hilary was a bitch'
counselor;someone who has supervisory duties at a summer camp
moliere;1622-1673
turkoman;a member of a turkic people living in turkmenistan and neighboring areas
sniveler;a person given to excessive complaints and crying
retailer;a merchant who sells goods at retail
cuirassier;a cavalryman equipped with a cuirass
pathologist;a doctor who specializes in medical diagnosis
materialist;someone with great regard for worldly possessions
film star;a star who plays leading roles in the cinema
bridegroom;a man who has recently been married
freight agent;an employee of a freight carrier who directs the receipt and delivery of goods
appraiser;one who determines the authenticity of works of art
divine;a clergyman or other person in religious orders
foster mother;a woman who is a foster parent
lieutenant governor;an elected official serving as deputy to the governor of a state of the us
coolie;an offensive name for an unskilled asian laborer
count palatine;a count who exercised royal authority in his own domains
rutherford b. hayes;19th president of the united states (1822-1893)
dago;ethnic slur. offensive terms for a person of italian descent
fifth columnist;a member of a clandestine subversive organization who tries to help a potential invader
charles darwin;english natural scientist whose 'on the origin of species' formulated a theory of evolution by natural selection (1809-1882)
georg friedrich bernhard riemann;pioneer of non-euclidean geometry (1826-1866)
monsieur;used as a french courtesy title. equivalent to english 'mr'
curator;the custodian of a collection (as a museum or library)
orchestrator;an arranger who writes for orchestras
lector;a public lecturer at certain universities
wanderer;someone who leads a wandering unsettled life
hypocrite;a person who professes beliefs and opinions that they do not hold
zeus;the supreme god of ancient mythology. son of rhea and cronus whom he dethroned and husband and sister of hera. brother of poseidon and hades. father of many gods
irishwoman;a woman who is a native or inhabitant of ireland
shop clerk;a salesperson in a store
putterer;a person who putters about
esquire;(british) a title of respect for a member of the english gentry ranking just below a knight. placed after the name
wetback;ethnic slur. offensive terms for a person of mexican descent
white supremacist;a person who believes that the white race is or should be supreme
gatherer;a person who is employed to collect payments (as for rent or taxes)
actress;a female actor
vespucci;florentine navigator who explored the coast of south america. america was named in his honor (1454-1512)
andersen;a danish author remembered for his fairy stories (1805-1875)
samoyed;a samoyedic-speaking person in nw siberia
sweater girl;a girl with an attractive bust who wears tight sweaters
copyist;someone employed to make written copies of documents and manuscripts
wrecker;someone who demolishes or dismantles buildings as a job
wystan hugh auden;1907-1973
matrilineal kin;one related on the mother's side
poseur;a person who habitually pretends to be something he is not
libyan;a native or inhabitant of libya
st. bride;irish abbess. a patron saint of ireland
uighur;a member of a turkic people of chinese turkestan and neighboring areas (formerly of mongolia and e turkestan)
second lieutenant;a commissioned officer in the army or air force or marine corps holding the lowest rank
divinity;any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force
boyfriend;a man who is the lover of a girl or young woman. 'if i'd known he was her boyfriend i wouldn't have asked'
nincompoop;a stupid foolish person
chronicler;someone who writes chronicles
neutral;one who does not side with any party in a war or dispute
damascene;a native or inhabitant of damascus
president;the officer who presides at the meetings of an organization
leprechaun;a mischievous elf in irish folklore
guard of honor;an escort for a distinguished guest or for the casket at a military funeral
defense secretary;the person who holds the secretaryship of the defense department. 'the first defense secretary was james v. forrestal who was appointed by truman'
humdinger;someone of remarkable excellence: 'a humdinger of a secretary'
jakob behmen;(1575-1624) german mystic and theosophist who founded modern theosophy. influenced george fox
phonetician;a specialist in phonetics
bahamian;a native or inhabitant of the bahamas
guard;the person who plays that position on a football team. 'the left guard was injured on the play'
sleeping partner;a partner (who usually provides capital) whose association with the enterprise is not public knowledge
denturist;someone who makes dental appliances (bridges and dentures)
family doctor;a general practitioner who treats all the family members
thought reader;someone with the power of communicating thoughts directly
bastard;(obscene) insulting terms of address
prison chaplain;a chaplain in a prison
pass catcher;a football player who catches (or is supposed to catch) a forward pass
brother in law;a brother by marriage
spectre;an unusual appearing ghostly figure. 'we were unprepared for the apparition that confronted us'
indexer;someone who provides an index
lesbian;a female homosexual
viscount;(in various countries) a son or younger brother or a count
head of state;the leader of a country
harrison;23rd president of the united states (1833-1901)
sports editor;the newspaper editor responsible for sports news
veteran;a person who has served in the armed forces
esthetician;a philosopher who specializes in the nature of beauty
mikolaj kopernik;polish astronomer who produced a workable model of the solar system with the sun in the center (1473-1543)
switch hitter;slang term for a bisexual person
underdog;one at a disadvantage and expected to lose
cora;daughter of zeus and demeter. made queen of the underworld by pluto in ancient mythology. identified with roman proserpina
liegeman;a person holding a fief
guru;a mentor in spiritual and philosophical topics
business traveler;a traveler whose expenses are paid by the business he works for
engineer;a person who uses scientific knowledge to solve practical problems
metis;(canadian) a half-breed of white and indian parentage
saver;someone who saves (especially money)
assemblywoman;a woman assemblyman
navigator;the member of an aircrew who is responsible for the aircraft's course
gentile;in this sense 'gentile' denotes a christian as contrasted with a jew. 'goy' is a derogatory word for christians used by jews
deceased person;someone who is no longer alive. 'i wonder what the dead person would have done'
noncom;a military officer appointed from enlisted personnel
somalian;a native or inhabitant of somalia
tackle;the person who plays that position on a football team. 'the right tackle is a straight a student'
dosser;someone who sleeps in any convenient place
testifier;a person who testifies of gives a deposition
romany;a member of a nomadic people originating in n india and now living on all continents
physiologist;a biologist specializing in physiology
hospital chaplain;a chaplain in a hospital
clod;an awkward stupid person
pander;someone who procures customers for whores (in england they call a pimp a ponce)
janitor;someone employed to clean and maintain a building
young man;an adolescent male
pharisee;a self-righteous or sanctimonious person
lucius annaeus seneca;(circa 4 bc - 65 ad) an adviser to nero
mendicant;a pauper who lives by begging
stonemason;a craftsman who works with stone or brick
jester;a professional clown employed to to entertain a king or nobleman in the middle ages
hertz;german physicist who was the first to produce electromagnetic waves artificially (1857-1894)
kisser;someone who kisses
tsar;a male monarch or emperor (especially of russia prior to 1917)
socinian;an adherent of the teachings of socinus. a christian who rejects the divinity of christ and the trinity and original sin. influenced the development of unitarian theology
captor;a person who captures and holds people or animals
washingtonian;a resident of the city of washington
apostate;a disloyal person who forsakes his cause or religion or political party or friend etc.
streetwalker;a prostitute who attracts customers by walking the streets
fare;a paying (taxi) passenger
vivisectionist;cuts open live animals for research
slave driver;an employer who demands excessive work from the employees
aides;(classical mythology) the god of the underworld in ancient mythology. brother of zeus and husband of persephone
ensign;a person who holds a commissioned rank in the us navy or coast guard. below lieutenant junior grade
funeral director;one whose business is the management of funerals
girl;a female human offspring. 'her daughter cared for her in her old age'
chapman;archaic term for an itinerant peddler
draft evader;someone who is drafted and illegally refuses to serve
swearer;one who swears
damosel;a young unmarried woman
undergrad;a university student who has not yet received a first degree
austrian;a native or inhabitant of austria
bas bleu;a woman having literary or intellectual interests
analphabetic;a person unable to read
travelling salesman;a salesman who travels to call on customers
netkeeper;the hockey player assigned to protect the goal
protegee;a woman protege
episcopalian;a member of the episcopal church
robber;a thief who takes property by threatening (or performing) violence on the person who is robbed
scourer;someone who travels widely and energetically. 'he was a scourer of the seven seas'
kissing kin;a more or less distant relative. familiar enough to be greeted with a kiss
victor;a combatant who is able to defeat rivals
itinerant;a person who walks from place to place
darky;offensive term for black people
sergeant;a lawman with the rank of sergeant
hangman;an executioner who hangs the condemned person
boy;offensive term for black man. 'get out of my way boy'
alumna;a person who has received a degree from a school (high school or college or university)
robert lee frost;us poet famous for his lyrical poems on country life in new england (1874-1963)
whiz;someone who is very highly skilled
aristarchus;an ancient greek grammarian remembered for his commentary on the iliad and odyssey (ca. 217-145 bc)
celebrater;a person who is celebrating
rascal;one who is playfully mischievous
cottier;a medieval english villein
blind date;a participant in a blind date (someone you meet for the first time when you have a date with them)
national;a person who owes allegiance to that nation. 'a monarch has a duty to his subjects'
ballet dancer;a dancer who is a member of a ballet company
ferdinand magellan;circa 1480-1521
gaius octavianus;63 bc - 14 ad
demoiselle;a young unmarried woman
tattletale;someone who gossips indiscreetly
flunkey;a person of unquestioning obedience
fixer;someone who intervenes with authorities for a person in trouble (usually using underhand or illegal methods for a fee)
mauritanian;a native or inhabitant of mauritania
foreperson;the presiding member of the jury and the one who speaks on their behalf
charcoal burner;a worker whose job is to make charcoal
old stager;an experienced person. someone who has given long service
rudra;father of the storm gods marut. controller of nature. sometimes identified with siva
group captain;a commissioned officer (especially one in the royal air force) equivalent in rank to a colonel in the army
front;a person used as a cover for some questionable activity
aphasic;someone affected by aphasia or inability to use or understand language
misanthrope;someone who dislikes people in general
londoner;a resident of london
olympian;an athlete who participates in the olympic games
weather forecaster;predicts the weather
antecedent;someone from whom you are descended (but usually more remote that a grandparent)
opponent;a contestant that you are matched against
man of deeds;someone inclined to act first and think later
negroid;a person with dark skin who comes from africa (or whose ancestors came from africa)
mayoress;a woman mayor
jackson;7th president of the us. successfully defended new orleans from the british in 1815. (1767-1845)
lapidist;a skilled worker who cuts and engraves precious stones
bisexual;a person who is sexually attracted to both men and women
songstress;a woman songster (especially of popular songs)
darkey;offensive term for black people
profligate;a recklessly extravagant consumer
colored;a us term for blacks that is now considered offensive
addressee;one to whom something is addressed
andrew johnson;17th president of the united states. was elected vice president and succeeded lincoln when lincoln was assassinated. was impeached but acquitted by one vote (1808-1875)
zombi spirit;(voodooism) a spirit or supernatural force that reanimates a dead body
traveller;a person who changes location
yobo;a cruel and brutal fellow
dragoon;a member of a european military unit formerly composed of heavily armed cavalrymen
hirer;a person responsible for hiring workers. 'the boss hired three more men for the new job'
heimdal;god of dawn and light. guardian of asgard
layperson;someone who is not a clergyman or a professional person
heckler;someone who tries to embarrass you with gibes and questions and objections
scold;someone (especially a woman) who annoys people by constantly finding fault
militarist;a person who advocates war or warlike policies
pacha;a civil or military authority in turkey or egypt
nusku;(assyrian) god of fire and light. corresponds to babylonian girru
dairyman;a man who works in a diary
english professor;someone who teaches english
trojan;a native of ancient troy
ramachandra;a hero in hindu mythology. an incarnation of vishnu
also ran;a contestant who loses the contest
saint gregory i;(circa 540-604) the pope for whom gregorian chants were named
typesetter;one who sets written material into type
common man;a person who holds no title
superordinate;one of greater rank or station or quality
mezzo soprano;a soprano with a voice between soprano and contralto
able bodied seaman;a seaman in the merchant navy. trained in special skills
chapelgoer;a protestant in england who is not a member of the church of england
paladin;someone who fights for a cause
macedonian;a native or inhabitant of macedon
culprit;someone who perpetrates wrongdoing
wildcat;a cruelly rapacious person
wilson;28th president of the united states. led us in world war i and secured the formation of the league of nations (1856-1924)
warlord;supreme military leader exercising civil power in a region especially one accountable to nobody when the central government is weak
elector;a citizen who has a legal right to vote
blackamoor;a person with dark skin who comes from africa (or whose ancestors came from africa)
go between;a negotiator who acts as a link between parties
mediocrity;a person of second-rate ability or value: 'a team of aging second-raters'. 'shone among the mediocrities who surrounded him'
interlocutor;the performer in the middle of a minstrel line who engages the others in talk
fool;a professional clown employed to to entertain a king or nobleman in the middle ages
mamma;informal terms for a mother
lumberman;a person works at lumbering
conservationist;someone who works to protect the environment from destruction or pollution
gaffer;an electrician responsible for lighting on a movie or tv set
lad;a boy or man. 'that chap is your host'. 'there's a fellow at the door'. 'he's a likable cuss'
defector;a person who abandons their duty (as on a military post)
hijacker;someone who uses force to take over a vehicle (especially an airplane) in order to reach an alternative destination
rake;a dissolute man in fashionable society
malthus;an english economist who argued that increases in population would outgrow increases in the means of subsistence (1766-1834)
sparring partner;a boxer who spars with another boxer who is training for an important fight
god of war;a god worshipped as giving victory in war
kepler;german astronomer who first stated laws of planetary motion (1571-1630)
trooper;a state police officer
driver;someone who drives animals that pull a vehicle
guest;a visitor to whom hospitality is extended
anesthesiologist;a specialist who administers an anesthetic to a patient before he is treated
boann;(irish) goddess. mother of angus_og
masturbator;a person who practices masturbation
enjoyer;someone who enjoys property
jesus;a prophet of the first century (circa 8 bc - 29 ad). to christians he was both god and man--the messiah sent to save the human race from the sin it inherited through the fall of man
mining engineer;an engineer concerned with the construction and operation of mines
paul;a christian missionary to the gentiles. author of several epistles in the new testament. even though paul was not present at the last supper he is considered an apostle
best;the person who is most outstanding or excellent. 'he could beat the best of them'
paul the apostle;a christian missionary to the gentiles. author of several epistles in the new testament. even though paul was not present at the last supper he is considered an apostle
cicero;a roman statesman and orator remembered for his mastery of latin prose (106-43 bc)
abbe;a french abbot
forefather;the founder of a family. 'keep the faith of our forefathers'
holy person;person of exceptional holiness
white slaver;a person who forces women to become prostitutes
sports writer;a journalist who writes about sports
pigman;a herder or swine
commuter;someone who travels regularly from home to work in a city
associate professor;a teacher lower in rank than a full professor but higher than an assistant professor
aunty;the sister of your father or mother. the wife of your uncle
vouchee;(law) a person called into court to defend a title
hyades;(greek mythology) 7 daughters of atlas and half-sisters of the pleiades. they nurtured the infant dionysus and zeus placed them among the stars as a reward
craven;an abject coward
yank;an american who lives in the north (especially during the american civil war)
reserve;an athlete who plays only when another member of the team drops out
urban guerrilla;a guerrilla who fights only in cities and towns
anarchist;an advocate of anarchism
equestrian;a man skilled in equitation
proconsul;an official in a modern colony who has considerable administrative power
ninhursag;(sumerian) the great mother goddess. worshipped also as aruru and mama and nintu
sandbagger;someone who deceives you about his true nature or intent in order to take advantage of you
ukranian;a native or inhabitant of the ukraine
sir arthur conan doyle;(1859-1930) english author who created sherlock holmes
ticket agent;someone who sells tickets (e.g., theater seats or travel accommodations)
vandal;someone who willfully destroys or defaces property
lexicographer;a compiler or writer of a dictionary
st. patrick;a patron saint of ireland. an english missionary to ireland in the 5th century
william shakespeare;1564-1616
poll taker;someone who conducts surveys of public opinion
man;a male subordinate. 'the chief stationed two men outside the building'. 'he awaited word from his man in havana'
penpusher;a clerk who does boring paperwork
morta;the fate who cuts the thread of life. counterpart of greek atropos
software engineer;a person who designs and writes and tests computer programs
gossip columnist;a journalist who writes a column of gossip about celebrities
dead soul;someone who is no longer alive. 'i wonder what the dead person would have done'
smoothy;someone with an assured and ingratiating manner
stargazer;someone indifferent to the busy world
doorkeeper;an official doorkeeper as in a courtroom or legislative chamber
hamadryad;the nymph or spirit of a particular tree
artificer;someone who is the first to think of or make something
lecturer;someone who lectures professionally
sick person;a person suffering from an illness
arab chief;the leader of an arab village or family
chimariko;a member of an extinct north american indian people formerly living in california
point woman;a woman who is the forefront of an important enterprise
kafir;a member of the kafir people in ne afghanistan
master of ceremonies;a person who acts as host at formal occasions (makes an introductory speech and introduces other speakers)
aborigine;a dark-skinned member of a race of people living in australia when europeans arrived
conjoined twin;one of a pair of identical twins born with their bodies joined at some point
workman;an employee who performs manual or industrial labor
brahman;a member of the highest of the four hindu castes. 'originally all brahmins were priests'
business agent;an agent who handles business affairs for another. especially one who deals with employers
sis;a female person who has the same parents as another person. 'my sister married a musician'
hellion;a rowdy or mischievous person (usually a young man). 'he chased the young hellions out of his yard'
gangster;a criminal who is a member of gang
high commissioner;a senior diplomat from one country to another who is assigned ambassadorial rank
shoplifter;a thief who steals goods that are on display in a store
male aristocrat;a man who is an aristocrat
triton;a sea god. son of poseidon
next of kin;the person who is (or persons who are) most closely related to a given person
mennonite;a member of an anabaptist movement in holland noted for its simplicity of life
choctaw;a member of the muskhogean people formerly living in alabama
diva;a female operatic star
barber;a hairdresser who cuts hair and shaves beards as a trade
endodontist;a dentist specializing in diseases of the dental pulp and nerve
joseph stalin;russian soviet leader (1879-1953)
college man;a student (or former student) at a college or university
machine politician;a politician who belongs to a small clique that controls a political party for private rather than public ends
author;someone who originates or causes or initiates something. 'he was the generator of several complaints'
vicar general;(roman catholic) an administrative deputy who assists a bishop
trustee;members of a governing board
cutter;someone whose work is cutting (as e.g. cutting cloth for garments)
krauthead;offensive terms for a person of german descent
habitue;a regular patron: 'an habitue of the racetrack'
chevalier;a gallant or courtly gentleman
greenskeeper;(golf) someone responsible for the maintenance of a golf course
looter;someone who takes spoils or plunder (as in war)
sapir;(1884-1939) anthropologist and linguist. studied languages of north american indians
minnesotan;a resident of minnesota
teenager;a juvenile between the onset of puberty and maturity
joiner;a cabinetmaker whose work involves making things by joining pieces of wood
ops;goddess of abundance and fertility. wife of saturn. counterpart of greek rhea and cybele of ancient asia minor
security consultant;an adviser about alarm systems to prevent burglaries
ethologist;a zoologist who studies the behavior of animals in their natural habitats
oenophilist;a connoisseur of fine wines. a grape nut
salvadorian;a native or inhabitant of el salvador
little girl;a youthful female person. 'the baby was a girl'. 'the girls were just learning to ride a tricycle'
algonquian;a member of any of the north american indian groups speaking an algonquian language and originally living in the subarctic regions of e canada. many algonquian tribes migrated south into the woodlands from the mississippi river to the atlantic coast
fielder;a member of the cricket team that is fielding rather than batting
grandad;the father of your father or mother
collectivist;a person who belongs to the political left
amaterasu;central deity of shinto. goddess personifying the sun and ancestress of the rulers of japan
humanitarian;someone devoted to the promotion of human welfare and to social reforms
plaintiff;a person who brings an action in a court of law
dunce;these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
depreciator;one who disparages or belittles the worth of something
chief;a person who is in charge. 'the head of the whole operation'
resister;a disputant who advocates reform
canadian;a native or inhabitant of canada
seminarist;a student at a seminary (especially a roman catholic seminary)
quint;one of five children born at the same time
silly;a word used for misbehaving children. 'don't be a silly'
mitra;god of justice
narcist;someone in love with themselves
bellboy;someone employed as an errand boy and luggage carrier around hotels
wannabe;an aspiring young person. 'two executive hopefuls joined the firm'. 'the audience was full of madonna wannabes'
indian agent;a representative of the federal government to american indian tribes (especially on indian reservations)
patron saint;a saint who is considered to be a defender of some group or nation
menomini;a member of the extinct algonquian people formerly living between lake michigan and lake superior
catalan;a native or inhabitant of catalonia
turkmen;a member of a turkic people living in turkmenistan and neighboring areas
laundryman;operates industrial washing machine
charge of quarters;an enlisted man who handles his unit's administrative matters after hours
thoroughbred;a well-bred person
girl;a young woman. 'a young lady of 18'
absconder;someone who runs away and hides to avoid arrest or prosecution
cortes;(1485-1547) spanish conquistador who defeated the aztecs and conquered mexico
beneficiary;the recipient of funds or other benefits
henry ii;(1133-1189) first plantagenet king of england. instituted judicial and financial reforms. quarreled with archbishop becket concerning the authority of the crown over the church
neil armstrong;the first man to set foot on the moon (july 20, 1969)
quapaw;a member of the siouan people of the arkansas river valley in arkansas
mahatma;a mentor in spiritual and philosophical topics
flower girl;a woman who sells flowers in the street
manic depressive;a person afflicted with manic-depressive illness
fop;a man who is much concerned with his dress and appearance
accessary;someone who helps another person commit a crime
landsman;an inexperienced sailor. a sailor on the first voyage
yokel;not very intelligent or interested in culture
son in law;the husband of your daughter
mammy;informal terms for a mother
refugee;an exile who flees for safety
croupier;someone who collects and pays bets at a gaming table
street fighter;someone who learned to fight in the streets rather than being formally trained in the sport of boxing
bachelor;a knight of the lowest order. could display only a pennon
consumptive;a person with pulmonary tuberculosis
nina;(babylonian) a goddess of the watery deep and daughter of ea
chiropractor;a therapist who practices chiropractic
joker;a person who enjoys telling or playing jokes
dumbbell;an ignorant or foolish person
married man;a married man. a woman's partner in marriage
gastronome;a person devoted to refined sensuous enjoyment (especially good food and drink)
slowcoach;someone who moves slowly. 'in england they call a slowpoke a slowcoach'
ascendant;someone from whom you are descended (but usually more remote that a grandparent)
hater;a person who hates
protester;a person who dissents from some established policy
chef;a professional cook
tyke;a crude uncouth ill-bred person lacking culture or refinement
hob;(folklore) a small grotesque supernatural creature that makes trouble for human beings
guitar player;a musician who plays the guitar
ithunn;goddess of spring and wife of bragi. guarded the apples that kept the gods eternally young
jekyll and hyde;someone with two personalities - one good and one evil
geometry teacher;someone who teaches geometry
rhea;fertility goddess in ancient mythology. wife of cronus and mother of zeus. identified with roman ops and cybele of ancient asia minor
backroom boy;an expert adviser involved in making important decisions but usually lacking official status
storekeeper;a merchant who owns or manages a shop
premie;an infant that is born prematurely
silvan;a spirit that lives in or frequents the woods
doc;a licensed medical practitioner. 'i felt so bad i went to see my doctor'
lyndon baines johnson;36th president of the united states. was elected vice president and succeeded kennedy when kennedy was assassinated (1908-1973)
postal clerk;a clerk in a post office
xylophonist;someone who plays a xylophone
eyewitness;a spectator who can describe what happened
vigilance man;member of a vigilance committee
archaeologist;an anthropologist who studies prehistoric people and their culture
chandi;malevolent aspect of devi: 'the fierce'
historian;a person who is an authority on history and who studies it and writes about it
abbot;the superior of an abbey of monks
tamer;one that tames animals
easterner;an inhabitant of an eastern area. especially of the u.s.
peacekeeper;a member of a military force that is assigned (often with international sanction) to preserve peace in a trouble area
behemoth;a person of exceptional importance and reputation
phoebus apollo;sun god. god of prophesy and poetry and music and healing. son of zeus and leto. twin brother of artemis
boss;a person who exercises control and makes decisions. 'he is his own boss now'
blade;a dashing young man. 'gay young blades bragged of their amorous adventures'
flop;(informal) someone who is unsuccessful
ganesha;god of wisdom or prophesy. remover of obstacles
roman catholic;a member of the roman catholic church
fathead;a stupid fool
abstractor;one who makes abstracts or summarizes information
shintoist;a believer in shintoism
instructor;a person whose occupation is teaching
amoralist;someone who adheres to the doctrine that ordinary moral distinctions are invalid
know nothing;an ignorant person
rider;a traveler who rides (as on a horse or bicycle)
jahweh;a name for the old testament god as transliterated from the hebrew yhvh
reliever;a pitcher who does not start the game
demonstrator;a teacher or teacher's assistant who demonstrates the principles that are being taught
treasury secretary;the person who holds the secretaryship of the treasury department. 'alexander hamilton was the first secretary of the treasury'
lieutenant;an officer holding a commissioned rank in the us navy or coast guard. below lieutenant commander and above lieutenant junior grade
sharpshooter;an athlete noted for accurate aim
subject;a person who is subjected to experimental or other observational procedures. someone who is an object of investigation. 'the subjects for this investigation were selected randomly'. 'the cases that we studied were drawn from two different communities'
teutonic deity;a deity worshipped by the ancient teutons
asiatic;a native or inhabitant of asia
dyer;someone whose job is to dye cloth
district manager;a manager who supervises the sales activity for a district
jobber;someone who buys large quantities of goods and resells to merchants rather than to the ultimate customers
deaconess;a woman deacon
bill clinton;42nd president of the united states (1946- )
false witness;a person who deliberately gives false testimony
test tube baby;a baby conceived by artificial insemination
gold panner;a miner who digs or pans for gold in a gold field
committeeman;a man who is a member of committee
patrikin;one related on the father's side
natural;someone regarded as certain to succeed. 'he's a natural for the job'
health care provider;a person who helps in identifying or preventing or treating illness or disability
casanova;any man noted for his amorous adventures
analogist;someone who looks for analogies or who reasons by analogy
creep;someone unpleasantly strange or eccentric
fugitive;someone who flees from an uncongenial situation. 'fugitives from the seatshops'
candidate;a politician who is running for public office
white anglo saxon protestant;a white protestant of anglo-saxon ancestry
comer;someone who arrives (or has arrived)
father in law;the father of your spouse
parson;a person authorized to conduct religious worship
dullard;a person who is not very bright: 'the economy, stupid!'
mouth;(informal) a spokesperson (as a lawyer)
catherine;1729-1796
great grandfather;a father of your grandparent
shlemiel;a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
ford;1863-1947
satanist;an adherent of satan or satanism
pallas;(greek mythology) goddess of wisdom and useful arts and prudent warfare. guardian of athens. identified with roman minerva
jerk;a dull stupid fatuous person
diemaker;someone who makes dies
flagellant;a person who whips himself for sexual gratification
amen;a primeval personification of air and breath. worshipped especially at thebes
messenger;a person who carries a message
balder;god of light and peace and noted for his beauty and sweet nature. son of odin and frigg and husband of nanna. killed by hoth
stitcher;a garmentmaker who performs the finishing steps
wyrd;fate personified. one of the three weird sisters
supplicant;someone who prays to god
have;a person who possesses great material wealth
spiritualist;someone who serves as an intermediary between the living and the dead. 'he consulted several mediums'
troglodyte;one who lives in solitude
meany;a person of mean disposition
richard nixon;vice president under eisenhower and 37th president of the united states. resigned after the watergate scandal in 1974 (1913-1994)
swede;a native or inhabitant of sweden
poet singer;a singer of folk songs
satrap;a governor of a province in ancient persia
reversionist;someone who lapses into previous undesirable patterns of behavior
iceman;a professional killer
colonizer;someone who helps to found a colony
walapai;a member of a north american people formerly living in the colorado river valley in arizona
speculator;someone who risks losses for the possibility of considerable gains
drummer;someone who plays a drum
pastry cook;a chef who specializes in pastry
escapee;someone who escapes
apotheosis;model of excellence or perfection of a kind. one having no equal
account representative;someone in charge of a client's account for an advertising agency or brokerage or other service business
begetter;a male parent (also used as a term of address to your father). 'his father was born in atlanta'
bowler;delivers the ball to the batsman in cricket
marshall;a law officer having duties similar to those of a sheriff in carrying out the judgments of a court of law
mistress;a woman schoolteacher
importer;someone whose business involves importing goods from outside (especially from a foreign country)
south american indian;a member of a native indian group in south america
coppersmith;someone who makes articles from copper
gilbert;a librettist who was a collaborator with sir arthur sullivan (1836-1911)
oldster;an elderly person
convert;one who has been converted to another religious or political belief
drill master;a noncommissioned officer who instructs recruits in military marching and discipline
cortez;(1485-1547) spanish conquistador who defeated the aztecs and conquered mexico
kalka;the mongol people living the the central and eastern parts of outer mongolia
yahoo;not very intelligent or interested in culture
eudemon;(greek) a benevolent spirit
biographer;someone who writes an account of another person's life
granger;a person who operates a farm
confederate;a supporter of the confederate states of america
potholer;a person who explores caves
minister;a person authorized to conduct religious worship
litter lout;a person who litters public places with refuse
shanghaier;a kidnapper who drugs men and takes them for compulsory service aboard a ship
riveter;a worker who inserts and hammers rivets
geisha girl;a japanese woman trained to entertain men with conversation and singing and dancing
deary;a special loved one
dork;a dull stupid fatuous person
louis seymour bazett leakey;british paleontologist who worked in tanzania (1903-1972)
sullivan;english composer (1842-1900)
turkey;a person who does something thoughtless or annoying. 'some joker is blocking the driveway'
lawbreaker;someone who violates the law
chopin;(1810-1849) composer and pianist
foster sister;your foster sister is a female who is not a daughter of your parents but who is raised by your parents
brigadier;a general officer ranking below a major general
taleteller;someone who gossips indiscreetly
fingerprint specialist;a specialist in identifying fingerprints
dictator;someone who rules unconstrained by law
soda jerker;someone who works at a soda fountain
champion;someone who fights for a cause
tester;someone who administers a test to determine your qualifications
gull;a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
magician;someone who performs magic tricks to amuse an audience
maenad;(greek mythology) a woman participant in the orgiastic rites of dionysus
prelate;a senior clergyman
stowaway;a person who hides aboard a ship or plane in the hope of getting free passage
ex mayor;a former mayor
tiro;someone new to a field or activity
queen regent;a queen who serves as ruler when the king cannot
man;an adult male person who has a manly character (virile and courageous competent). 'the army will make a man of you'
center fielder;the person who plays center field
ice skater;someone who engages in ice skating
colleague;an associate you work with
point man;someone who is the forefront of an important enterprise. 'he is the president'spoint man on economic issues'
old man;a man who is old
image;someone who closely resembles a famous person (especially an actor). 'he could be gingrich's double'. 'she's the very image of her mother'
prisoner;a person who is confined. especially a prisoner of war
balarama;elder brother of krishna. an incarnation of vishnu
indian chief;the leader of a group of native americans
rip;a dissolute man in fashionable society
haberdasher;a merchant who sells men's clothing
pawnbroker;a person who lends money at interest in exchange for personal property that is deposited as security
masochist;someone who obtains pleasure from receiving punishment
half blood;on of siblings who have only one parent in common
navy man;a serviceman in the navy
hero worshipper;someone who worships heroes
canary;(informal) a female singer
lefty;a baseball pitcher who throws the ball with the left hand
bairn;(in scotland) a child: son or daughter
retard;a person of subnormal intelligence
faquir;a muslim or hindu mendicant monk who is regarded as a holy man
flight surgeon;a medical officer specializing in aviation medicine
sissy;a timid man or boy considered childish or unassertive
urania;(greek mythology) the muse of astronomy
seed;one of the outstanding players in a tournament
killer bee;an investment banker who devises strategies to make a target company less attractive for takeover
ironist;uses ridicule irony sarcasm
lord;a person who has general authority over others
repatriate;a person who has returned to the country of origin or whose citizenship has been restored
divine;the christian god
observer;a person who becomes aware of through the senses
trade unionist;a worker who belongs to a trade union
blackfriar;a catholic friar wearing the black mantle of the dominican order
ombudsman;a government appointee who investigates complaints by private persons against the government
soldier;an enlisted man or woman who serves in an army. 'the soldiers stood at attention'
judge;an authority who is able to estimate worth or quality
poor speller;someone who spells words
shut in;someone who is incapacitated by a chronic illness or injury
ana;(irish) mother of the ancient irish gods. sometimes identified with danu
lessee;a tenant who holds a lease
henry wadsworth longfellow;1807-1882
fellow traveller;a communist sympathizer (but not a member of the communist party)
boss;a leader in a political party who controls votes and dictates appointments. 'party bosses have a reputation for corruption'
hemophiliac;someone who has hemophilia and is subject to uncontrollable bleeding
johannes brahms;(1833-1897) german composer
carver;someone who carves the meat
coward;a person who shows fear or timidity
squatter;someone who settles on land without right or title
west virginian;a resident of west virginia
bowler;rolls balls down an alley at pins
behaviourist;a psychologist who subscribes to behaviorism
bermudan;a native or inhabitant of bermuda
window washer;someone who washes windows
kafir;(south africa) an offensive term for any black african
liberal;a person who favors an economic theory of laissez-faire and self-regulating markets
nymph;(classical mythology) a minor nature goddess usually depicted as a beautiful maiden. 'the ancient greeks believed that nymphs inhabited forests and bodies of water'
spotter;someone who is the first of observe something
winner;the contestant who wins the contest
straggler;someone who strays or falls behind
haydn;1732-1809
tragedian;one who specializes in tragic roles
cavalryman;a soldier mounted on horseback. 'a cavalryman always takes good care of his horse'
druggist;a health professional trained in the art of preparing and dispensing drugs
dowser;someone who uses a divining rod to find underground water
bill sticker;someone who pastes up bills or placards on walls or billboards
altruist;someone who makes charitable donations intended to increase human well-being
rhadamnathus;a judge of the dead in the underworld
full professor;a professor of the highest rank
ringleader;a person who leads (especially in illicit activities)
maiden aunt;an unmarried aunt
old bag;an ugly or ill-tempered woman. 'he was romancing the old bag for her money'
city man;a financier who works in one of the banks in the city of london
agitprop;a person who disseminates messages calculated to assist some cause or some government
pugilist;someone who fights with his fists for sport
lady;a polite name for any woman
worker;a member of the working class (not necessarily employed). 'workers of the world--unite!'
needlewoman;someone who makes or mends dresses
pipe major;the chief piper in a band of bagpipes
organizer;a person who organizes
mahound;(570-632) the prophet who founded islam
gay;someone who practices homosexuality. having a sexual attraction to persons of the same sex
astarte;(phoenician) a fertility goddess. counterpart of ashtoreth and ishtar
hack;one who works hard at boring tasks
registered representative;someone in charge of a client's account for an advertising agency or brokerage or other service business
uncle;the brother of your father or mother. the husband of your aunt
ranee;(the feminine of raja) a hindu princess or the wife of a raja
woman;a human female who does housework. 'the char will clean the carpet'
ducky;a special loved one
alum;a person who has received a degree from a school (high school or college or university)
analyst;a licensed practitioner of psychoanalysis
liverpudlian;a resident of liverpool
door guard;someone who guards the entrance to a building
royalist;an advocate of the principles of monarchy
drama critic;a critic of theatrical performances
bell ringer;a person who rings church bells (as for summoning the congregation)
butch;a lesbian who is noticeably masculine
water boy;supplies drinking water
angiologist;a physician who specializes in angiology
ewenki;a member of the people inhabiting an area of northern mongolia and eastern siberia
general;a general officer of the highest rank
romantic;a soulful or amorous idealist
unitarian;adherent of unitarianism
tsaritsa;the wife or widow of a czar
baas;s african term for 'boss'
chandler;a retail dealer in provisions and supplies
military volunteer;a person who freely enlist for military service
broth of a man;an outstanding person. as if produced by boiling down a savory broth
milkman;someone who delivers milk
faddist;a person who subscribes to a variety of fads
worrywart;thinks about unfortunate things that might happen
worthy;word is often used humorously
baronet;a member of the british order of honor. ranks below a baron but above a knight. 'since he was a baronet he had to be addressed as sir henry jones, bart.'
egotist;a conceited and self-centered person
mender;someone who is employed to repair broken things
franciscan;a catholic friar wearing the gray habit of the franciscan order
ate;goddess of criminal rashness and its punishment
broadcaster;someone who broadcasts on radio or television
miles gloriosus;a braggart soldier (a stock figure in comedy)
tribal chief;the head of a tribe or clan
joe blow;an average person
the weird sisters;the three anglo-saxon fates or goddesses of destiny
usurer;someone who lends money at excessive rates of interest
hitchiti;a member of the muskhogean people formerly living in georgia. a member of the creek confederacy
prometheus;(greek mythology) the titan who stole fire from olympus and gave it to mankind. zeus punished him by chaining him to a rock where an eagle gnawed at his liver until hercules rescued him. father of deucalion
evangelista torricelli;italian physicist who invented the mercury barometer
relative;a person related by blood or marriage. 'police are searching for relatives of the deceased'. 'he has distant relations back in new jersey'
vintner;someone who makes wine
diviner;someone who claims to discover hidden knowledge with the aid of supernatural powers
onlooker;someone who looks on
slogger;someone who works slowly and monotonously
roman;a resident of modern rome
dependant;a person who relies on another person for support (especially financial support)
water nymph;a fairy that inhabits water
law student;a student in law school
saint francis;(1181-1226) italian monk who founded the franciscan order of friars
dock worker;a laborer who loads and unloads vessels in a port
spender;someone who spends money prodigally
ex serviceman;a person who has served in the armed forces
hoodlum;an aggressive young criminal
cowhand;a hired hand who tends cattle and performs other duties on horseback
pope;the head of the roman catholic church
candymaker;someone who makes candies and other sweets
sommelier;a waiter who manages wine service in a hotel or restaurant
johann wolfgang von goethe;(1749-1832) german poet and novelist and dramatist who lived in weimar
supplier;someone whose business is to supply a particular service or commodity
medicine man;a native american shaman
proust;(1871-1922) french novelist
heterosexual person;a heterosexual person. someone having a sexual orientation to persons of the opposite sex
angolese;a member of the bantu tribes resident in angola
factor;a businessman who buys or sells for another in exchange for a commission
class fellow;an acquaintance that you go to school with
owner;a person who owns something. 'they are searching for the owner of the car'. 'who is the owner of that friendly smile?'
newscaster;someone who broadcasts the news
eccentric person;a person with an unusual or odd personality
pocahontas;a powhatan indian woman (the daughter of powhatan) who befriended the english at jamestown and is said to have saved captain john smith's life (1595-1617)
votary;a devoted (almost religiously so) adherent of a cause or person or activity: 'the cultured votary of science'.
masher;a man who is aggressive in making amorous advances to women
bellhop;someone employed as an errand boy and luggage carrier around hotels
medico;a licensed medical practitioner. 'i felt so bad i went to see my doctor'
hachiman;a shinto god of war
slave dealer;a person engaged in slave trade
anubis;jackal-headed god of tombs. conducted dead to judgment
love;a beloved person. used as terms of endearment
widow woman;a woman whose husband is dead especially one who has not remarried
stepbrother;a son of your stepparent by a former marriage
company man;an employee whose first loyalty is to the company rather than to fellow workers
show off;someone who deliberately behaves in such a way as to attract attention
firebug;a criminal who illegally sets fire to property
farm girl;a girl who has grown up on a farm
wet nurse;a woman hired to suckle a child of someone else
tike;a crude uncouth ill-bred person lacking culture or refinement
muskogee;a member of the muskhogean people formerly living in georgia and e alabama and constituting the core of the creek confederacy
initiate;someone new to a field or activity
overnighter;a guest who stays overnight
theatergoer;someone who attends the theater
ale drinker;someone whose favorite drink is beer or ale
officer;someone who is appointed or elected to an office and who holds a position of trust. 'he is an officer of the court'. 'the club elected its officers for the coming year'
moor;one of the muslim people of n africa. of mixed arab and berber descent. converted to islam in the 8th century. conquerors of spain in the 8th century
charles the great;(742-814) king of the franks. conqueror of the lombards and saxons
sociologist;a social scientist who studies the institutions and development of human society
amerigo vespucci;florentine navigator who explored the coast of south america. america was named in his honor (1454-1512)
shop boy;a young male shop assistant
herbert hoover;31st president of the united states. in 1929 the stock market crashed and the economy collapsed and hoover was defeated for re-election by franklin roosevelt (1874-1964)
equal;a person who is of equal standing with another in a group
incubus;someone who depresses or worries others
working girl;a young woman who is employed
kaffir;(south africa) an offensive term for any black african
woodcutter;cuts down trees and chops wood as a job
medalist;(golf) the winner at medal play of a golf tournament
creator;a person who grows or makes or invents things
gainsborough;1727-1788
legal guardian;a person to whom legal title to property is entrusted to use for another's benefit
schrodinger;(1887-1961) austrian physicist who discovered the wave equation
jurist;a public official authorized to decide questions bought before a court of justice
planner;a person who makes plans
ragamuffin;a dirty shabbily clothed urchin
flute player;someone who plays the flute
zairese;a native or inhabitant of zaire
squirt;someone who is small and insignificant
ex husband;a man who was formerly a certain woman's husband
zombi;a god of voodoo cults of african origin worshipped especially in w indies
existentialist;a philosopher who emphasizes freedom of choice and personal responsibility but who regards human existence in a hostile universe as unexplainable
danseur noble;a male ballet dancer who is the partner of a ballerina
overachiever;a student who attains higher standards than the iq indicated
hoover;31st president of the united states. in 1929 the stock market crashed and the economy collapsed and hoover was defeated for re-election by franklin roosevelt (1874-1964)
witch hunter;someone who identifies and punishes people for their opinions
mari;a member of a rural finnish people living in e russia
coach;a person who gives private instruction (as in singing or acting)
vali;one of the aesir and avenger of balder. son of odin
kept woman;a woman who has an ongoing extramarital sexual relationship with a man
zombi;someone who acts or responds in a mechanical or apathetic way. 'only an automaton wouldn't have noticed'
pensionary;a person who works only for money
sensualist;a person who enjoys sensuality
west indian;a native or inhabitant of the west indies
man;(informal) a male person who plays a significant role (husband or lover or boyfriend) in the life of a particular woman. 'she takes good care of her man'
hualpai;a member of a north american people formerly living in the colorado river valley in arizona
ninigino mikoto;grandson of amaterasu and first ruler of japan
antediluvian;any of the early patriarchs who lived prior to the deluge
sneak;someone acting as an informer or decoy for the police
undesirable;one whose presence is undesirable: 'rounding up vagrants and drunks and other undesirables'
alabamian;a resident of alabama
efficiency engineer;an expert in increasing the efficient use of machines and personnel
zoroaster;(circa 628-551 bc) persian prophet who founded zoroastrianism
left handed pitcher;a baseball pitcher who throws the ball with the left hand
alexic;a person with alexia
fabian;a member of the fabian society in britain
yuppie;a young upwardly mobile professional person. someone under 40 who prospered during the 1980s
proserpine;goddess of the underworld. counterpart of greek persephone
slaver;a person engaged in slave trade
cracker;a poor white person in the southern us
small for gestational age infant;an infant whose size and weight are considerably less than the average for babies of the same age
golf widow;a wife who is left alone much of the time because her husband is playing golf
ex spouse;a person who was formerly a spouse
loki;trickster. god of discord and mischief. contrived death of balder and was overcome by thor
luger;someone who races the luge
repairer;a worker whose job is to repair things
desperado;a bold outlaw (especially on the american frontier)
scipio africanus;roman general who commanded the invasion of carthage in the second punic war and defeated hannibal at zama (circa 237-183 bc)
siddhartha;founder of buddhism. c 563-483 b.c.. worshipped as a god
propagator;someone who propagates plants (as under glass)
enuki;(babylonian) any of a group of powerful earth spirits or genii. servitors of the gods
theatrical agent;a business agent for an actor
jugoslav;a native or inhabitant of yugoslavia
castrate;a man who has been castrated and is incapable of reproduction. 'eunuchs guarded the harem'
peach;a very attractive or seductive looking woman
foster father;a man who is a foster parent
gigolo;a man who has sex with and is supported by a woman
match;a person regarded as a good matrimonial prospect
inmate;a person serving a prison sentence
char;a human female who does housework. 'the char will clean the carpet'
kant;german idealist philosopher (1724-1804)
arranger;a musician who adapts a composition for particular voices or instruments or for another style of performance
preacher man;someone who occupation is preaching the gospel
chap;a boy or man. 'that chap is your host'. 'there's a fellow at the door'. 'he's a likable cuss'
litigant;a party to a lawsuit
schoolchild;a child attending school
czech;a native or inhabitant of czechoslovakia
snake charmer;a performer who uses movements and music to control snakes
apprentice;works for an expert to learn a trade
molester;someone who subjects others to unwanted or improper sexual activities
differentiator;a person who differentiates
trespasser;someone who intrudes on the privacy or property of another without permission
softy;a person who is weak and excessively sentimental
premier;the person who holds the position of head of state in england
secret agent;a person secretly employed in espionage for a government
deputy;an assistant with power to act when his superior is absent
parapsychologist;someone who studies the evidence for such psychological phenomena as psychokinesis and telepathy and clairvoyance
succuba;a female demon believed to have sexual intercourse with sleeping men
footballer;an athlete who plays football
marchioness;the wife or widow of a marquis
locum tenens;someone (physician or clergyman) who substitutes temporarily for another member of the same profession
lurker;someone waiting in concealment
ingerman;a member of western finnish people formerly living in the baltic province where saint petersburg was built
slanderer;one who attacks the reputation of another by slander or libel
creator;the christian god
george ii;(1683-1760) king of great britain and elector of hanover from 1727 to 1760
card;(informal) a witty amusing person who makes jokes
technician;someone known for high skill in some intellectual or artistic technique
newborn;a baby from birth to four weeks
lumberjack;a person works at lumbering
oilman;a person who owns or operates oil wells
charity case;a case for a welfare worker
medallist;someone who has won a medal
genitor;a natural father or mother
wire puller;one who uses secret influence (i.e. pulls wires or strings) for his own ends
hod carrier;a laborer who carries supplies to masons or bricklayers
page;a youthful attendant at official functions or ceremonies such as legislative functions and weddings
slugabed;a person who stays in bed until a relatively late hour
diabetic;someone who has diabetes
alternate;someone who takes the place of another person
generalissimo;the officer who holds the supreme command. 'in the u.s. the president is the commander in chief'
yobbo;a cruel and brutal fellow
iowa;a member of the siouan people formerly living in iowa and minnesota and missouri
queer;a disparaging term for an openly homosexual man
slavey;(british) a female domestic servant who does all kinds of menial work
cross questioner;someone who questions a witness carefully (especially about testimony given earlier)
krishna;8th and most important avatar of vishnu. incarnated as a handsome young man playing a flute
silvanus;roman god of woods and fields and flocks. pan is the greek counterpart
surgeon general;the senior medical officer in an army or navy
red;emotionally charged terms used to refer to extreme radicals
lama;a tibetan or mongolian priest of lamaism
louis the great;(1638-1715) king of france from 1643 to 1715. his long reign was marked by the expansion of french influence in europe and by the magnificence of his court and the palace of versailles
factotum;a servant employed to do a variety of jobs
salvadoran;a native or inhabitant of el salvador
sir james matthew barrie;(1860-1937) scottish dramatist
stroller;someone who walks at a leisurely pace
center;(basketball) the person who plays center
second rater;a person of second-rate ability or value: 'a team of aging second-raters'. 'shone among the mediocrities who surrounded him'
bruneian;a native or inhabitant of brunei
egoist;a self-centered person with little regard for others
embassador;a diplomat of the highest rank. accredited as representative from one country to another
inexperienced person;a person who lacks knowledge of evil
kartikeya;god of bravery
proserpina;goddess of the underworld. counterpart of greek persephone
buchanan;15th president of the united states (1791-1868)
abel;cain and abel were the first children of adam and eve born after the fall of man. abel was killed by cain
governess;a woman entrusted with the care and supervision of a child (especially in a private home)
ecuadoran;a native or inhabitant of ecuador
henry v;(1387-1422) son of henry iv and king of england from 1413 to 1422. reopened the hundred years' war and defeated the french at agincourt
rudyard kipling;1865-1936
sidesman;(church of england) an assistant to the churchwarden. collects offerings of money in the church
bass;an adult male singer with the lowest voice
critic;anyone who expresses a reasoned judgment of something
haitian;a native or inhabitant of haiti
semite;a member of a group of semitic-speaking peoples of the near east and n africa
carolinian;a resident of the carolinas
connection;(usually plural) a person who is influential and to whom you are connected in some way (as by family or friendship). 'he has powerful connections'
nihilist;an advocate of anarchism
fox;(1624-1691) english religious leader who founded the society of friends
communist;a member of the communist party
lord;the christian god
fool;a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
dick;(informal) someone who is a detective
james monroe;5th president of the united states. author of the 'monroe doctrine' (1758-1831)
live wire;an alert and energetic person
monomaniac;a person suffering from monomania
gunman;a professional killer who uses a gun
dylan;(welsh) god of the waves. son of arianrhod
hog;a person regarded as greedy and pig-like
ninib;(sumerian and babylonian) a solar deity. first-born of bel and consort was gula. god of war and the chase and agriculture. sometimes identified with biblical nimrod
forseti;god of justice. son of balder and nanna
newspaperwoman;a journalist employed to provide news stories for newspapers or broadcast media
seaman;a man who serves as a sailor
sekhet;a lion-headed goddess. typifies life-destroying power of the sun
gardener;someone who takes care of a garden
projectionist;the person who operates the projector in a movie house
zombie;(voodooism) a spirit or supernatural force that reanimates a dead body
udmurt;a member of the finno-ugric-speaking people living in eastern european russia
renovator;a skilled worker who is employed to restore or refinish antique furniture
ass kisser;someone who humbles himself as a sign of respect. who behaves as he had no self-respect
latvian;a native or inhabitant of latvia
bacchant;someone who engages in drinking bouts
arabist;a scholar who specializes in arab languages and culture
varlet;a deceitful and unreliable scoundrel
noncombatant;a member of the armed forces who does not participate in combat (e.g. a chaplain or surgeon)
palaeontologist;a specialist in paleontology
sikh;a member of a monotheistic hindu sect
madison;4th president of the united states. member of the constitutional congress and recorder at the constitutional convention in 1776. helped frame the bill of rights (1751-1836)
founder;a person who founds or establishes some institution. 'george washington is the father of his country'
cutler;a dealer in cutlery
wastrel;dissipates resources self-indulgently
mute;a deaf person who is unable to speak
eccentric;a person of a specified kind (usually with many eccentricities). 'a strange character'. 'a friendly eccentric'. 'the capable type'. 'a mental case'
abiogenist;a believer in abiogenesis
tai;a native or inhabitant of thailand
saint john the apostle;disciple of jesus. author of the 4th gospel
cooper;a craftsman who makes or repairs wooden barrels or tubs
college girl;a female student at a coeducational college or university
opponent;someone who offers opposition
appointee;an official who is appointed
constitutionalist;an advocate of constitutional government
borrower;someone who receives something on the promise to return it or its equivalent
bargee;someone who operates a barge
john von neumann;united states mathematician who contributed to the development of atom bombs and of stored-program digital computers (1903-1957)
paperer;one whose occupation is decorating walls with wallpaper
book agent;a book salesman
thomas aquinas;italian (roman catholic) theologian remembered for his attempt to reconcile faith and reason in a comprehensive theology (1225-1274)
cager;an athlete who plays basketball
grabber;a selfish person who is unwilling to give or spend
enfant terrible;a person whose unconventional behavior embarrasses others
mormon;a member of the mormon church
ghoul;an evil spirit or ghost
big brother;an authoritarian leader
soft touch;a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
pomo;a member of an indian people of n california living along the russian river valley and adjacent pacific coast
earl marshal;an officer of the english peerage who organizes royal processions and other ceremonies
card player;someone who plays (or knows how to play) card games
art student;someone studying to be an artist
poor white trash;an offensive term for white people who are impoverished
map reader;a person who can read maps. 'he is a good map-reader'
henrik ibsen;a norwegian author who wrote plays on social and political themes (1828-1906)
steward;a union member who is elected to represent fellow workers in negotiating with management
doer;a person who acts and gets things done. 'he's a principal actor in this affair'. 'when you want something done get a doer'. 'he's a miracle worker'
raver;someone who rants and raves. speaks in a violent or loud manner
mao zedong;chinese communist leader (1893-1976)
fashion arbiter;someone who popularizes a new fashion
troublemaker;someone who deliberately stirs up trouble
hel;goddess of the dead and queen of the underworld
confessor;a priest who hears confession and gives absolution
esau;(old testament) the eldest son of isaac who would have inherited the covenant that god made with abraham and that abraham passed on to isaac. he traded his birthright to his brother jacob for a mess of pottage
patroness;a woman who is a patron
lombard;a member of a germanic people who invaded northern italy in the 6th century
grand duchess;the wife of a grand duke or a woman holding that rank in her own right
valentine;a sweetheart chosen to receive a greeting on saint valentine's day. 'will you be my valentine?'
medalist;someone who has won a medal
biochemist;someone with special training in biochemistry
brewer;someone who brews beer or ale from malt and hops and water
humphrey deforest bogart;(1899-1957) american film actor
doyen;the senior member of a group. 'he is the dean of foreign correspondents'
costume designer;someone who designs or supplies costumes (as for a play or masquerade)
foundress;a woman founder
lodger;a tenant in someone's house
elder;any of various church officers
diagnostician;a doctor who specializes in medical diagnosis
tiu;god of war and sky. counterpart of norse tyr
commentator;a writer who reports and analyzes events of the day
sneak;someone who prowls or sneaks about. usually with unlawful intentions
shaman;in societies practicing shamanism: one acting as a medium between the visible and spirit worlds. practices sorcery for healing or divination
skier;someone who skis
demonstrator;someone who participates in a public display of group feeling
printer s devil;an apprentice in a printing establishment
welder;joins pieces of metal by welding them together
scenic artist;an artist specializing in scenic subjects
frogman;someone who works underwater
dragon;a fiercely vigilant and unpleasant woman
panjandrum;an important or influential person
mayan;a member of an american indian people of yucatan and belize and guatemala who once had a culture characterized by outstanding architecture and pottery and astronomy
line shooter;a very boastful and talkative person
confederate;an associate who provides assistance. 'he's a good ally in fight'. 'they were friends of the workers'
newsstand operator;someone who sells newspapers
muttonhead;these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
mum;informal terms for a mother
lyricist;a person who writes the words for songs
exchanger;one whose business is to exchange the money of one country for that of another country
sir arthur stanley eddington;1882-1944
barrow man;a hawker of fruit and vegetables from a barrow
split end;(football) an offensive end who lines up at a distance from the other linemen
oriental;a member of an oriental race
simpleton;a person lacking intelligence or common sense
success;a person with a record of successes. 'his son would never be the achiever that his father was'. 'only winners need apply'. 'if you want to be a success you have to dress like a success'
zairean;a native or inhabitant of zaire
aircrewman;a member of an aircrew
shipwreck survivor;a shipwrecked person
resident;someone who lives at a particular place for a prolonged period or who was born there
hawk;an advocate of an aggressive policy on foreign relations
roundsman;a worker who makes rounds (to deliver goods or make inspections or so on)
counsel;a lawyer who pleads cases in court
maid;an unmarried girl (especially a virgin)
painter;an artist who paints
collector of internal revenue;someone who collects taxes for the government
swashbuckler;a reckless impetuous irresponsible person
tomboy;a girl who behaves in a boyish manner
objector;a person who dissents from some established policy
bo s n;a petty officer on a merchant ship who controls the work of other seamen
geometrician;a mathematician specializing in geometry
pragmatist;a person who takes a practical approach to problems
pantheist;someone who believes that god and the universe are the same
lass;a girl or young woman who is unmarried
virtuoso;someone who is very highly skilled
pearl diver;a diver who searches for molluscs containing pearls
pursued;a person who is being chased. 'the film jumped back and forth from the pursuer to the pursued'
saint bride;irish abbess. a patron saint of ireland
stranger;anyone who does not belong in the environment in which they are found
poor person;a person with few or no possessions
urologist;a specialist in urology
zealot;a fervent and even militant proponent of something
presbyope;a person with presbyopia. someone who is farsighted resulting from the progressive loss with aging of the elasticity of the crystalline lens
diner;a person eating a meal (especially in a restaurant)
ruth;(1895-1948) us professional baseball player famous for hitting home runs
cervantes;spanish writer best remembered for 'don quixote' which satirizes chivalry and influenced the development of the novel form (1547-1616)
butter;a fighter who strikes the opponent with his head
sudanese;a native or inhabitant of sudan
arapaho;a member of a north american plains people (now living in oklahoma and wyoming)
tlingit;a member of a seafaring group of north american indians living in s alaska
lockmaster;a worker in charge of a lock (on a canal)
mansi;a member of a nomadic people of the northern ural mountains
pig;(informal) uncomplimentary terms for a policeman
francophobe;a person who hates france and everything french
samnite;an oscan-speaking member of an ancient people of campania who clashed repeatedly with the early romans
alpinist;a mountain climber who specializes in difficult climbs
angevine;a resident of anjou
effendi;a former turkish term of respect. especially for government officials
skirmisher;someone who skirmishes (e.g., as a member of a scouting party)
mandarin;a member of an elite intellectual or cultural group
priestess;a woman priest
bell captain;the supervisor of bellboys in a hotel
minstrel;a performer in a minstrel show
angevin;a resident of anjou
youth;a young person (especially a young man or boy)
restorer;a skilled worker who is employed to restore or refinish antique furniture
prime minister;the person who holds the position of head of state in england
confucius;chinese philosopher (circa 551-478 bc)
the three weird sisters;the three anglo-saxon fates or goddesses of destiny
railroader;an employee of a railroad
inheritrix;a female heir
research worker;a scientist who devotes himself to doing research
bogie;an evil spirit
old man;an informal term for a father. probably derived from baby talk
womaniser;a man who likes many women and has short sexual relationships with them
tunisian;a native or inhabitant of tunisia
ganger;the foreman of a work gang
chester a. arthur;elected vice president and became 21st president of the united states when garfield was assassinated (1830-1886)
visionary;a person with unusual powers of foresight
bertrand russell;1872-1970
marcus tullius cicero;a roman statesman and orator remembered for his mastery of latin prose (106-43 bc)
minister;a diplomat representing one government to another. ranks below ambassador
paramour;a woman's lover
bailor;the person who delivers personal property (goods or money) in trust to the bailee in a bailment
second;the official attendant of a contestant in a duel or boxing match
female sibling;a person's sister
vintner;someone who sells wine
annapurna;wife of siva and a benevolent aspect of devi: goddess of plenty
achomawi;a member of the north american indian people of the pit river valley in n california
dada;an informal term for a father. probably derived from baby talk
miller;someone who works in a mill (especially a grain mill)
accompanist;a person who provides musical accompaniment (usually on a piano)
prime minister;the person who is head of state (in several countries)
draftsman;an artist skilled at drawing
duke of windsor;(1894-1972) king of england and ireland in 1936. his marriage to wallis warfield simpson created a constitutional crisis leading to his abdication
piaget;1896-1980
noncandidate;someone who has announced their noncandidacy. especially a politician who has announced that he or she is not a candidate for some political office
adulteress;a woman adulterer
third rater;one who is third-rate or distinctly inferior
don t know;(colloquial) a person who responds 'i don't know' in public opinion poll
blind person;a person with a visual handicap severe enough to leave them unemployable
machinist;a craftsman skilled in operating machine tools
venezuelan;a native or inhabitant of venezuela
animal stuffer;a craftsman who stuffs and mounts the skins of animals for display
thruster;one who intrudes or pushes himself forward
guardian spirit;an angel believed to have special affection for a particular individual
mahomet;(570-632) the prophet who founded islam
karelian;a member of the finnish people living in karelia in nw european russia
william schwenk gilbert;a librettist who was a collaborator with sir arthur sullivan (1836-1911)
oddball;a person with an unusual or odd personality
talking head;a talker on tv who talks directly into the cameras and whose upper body is all that is shown on the screen
aleutian;a member of the people inhabiting the aleutian islands and w alaska
blue blood;a member of the aristocracy
straw man;a person used as a cover for some questionable activity
czaritza;the wife or widow of a czar
electrologist;someone skilled in the use of electricity to remove moles or warts or hair roots
seminarian;a student at a seminary (especially a roman catholic seminary)
banker;the person in charge of the bank in a gambling game
marut;any of a group of storm gods. offspring of rudra
spokesperson;an advocate who represents someone else's policy or purpose. 'the meeting was attended by spokespersons for all the major organs of government'
schizophrenic;someone who is afflicted with schizophrenia
repository;a person to whom a secret is entrusted
hall porter;someone who guards the entrance to a building
cost accountant;a specialist in the systematic recording and analysis of the costs incident to production
room clerk;a hotel clerk who is responsible for room assignments to guests
satirist;uses ridicule irony sarcasm
wen ch ang;chinese god of literature
obstetrician;a physician specializing in obstetrics
jakob boehm;(1575-1624) german mystic and theosophist who founded modern theosophy. influenced george fox
misogynist;someone who dislikes women in particular
statistician;someone versed in the collection and interpretation of numerical data (especially someone who uses statistics to calculate insurance premiums)
pharisee;a member of an ancient jewish sect noted for strict obedience to jewish traditions
associate;a person who is frequently in the company of another. 'drinking companions'. 'comrades in arms'
grandchild;a child of your son or daughter
almsgiver;a person who gives alms
bureaucrat;an official of a bureaucracy
screw;someone who guards prisoners
myope;a person with myopia. a nearsighted person
patwin;a member of the north american indian people living in the sacramento valley in california
french teacher;someone who teaches french
restauranter;the proprietor of a restaurant
blackleg;someone who works (or provides workers) during a strike
almighty;the christian god
special agent;someone whose authority is limited to the special undertaking they have been instructed to perform
scoundrel;a wicked or evil person
persona non grata;a person who for some reason is not wanted or welcome
lightweight;a wrestler who weighs 139-154 pounds
stage director;someone who supervises the actors and directs the action in the production of a show
amnesic;a person suffering from amnesia
filibusterer;a legislator who gives long speeches in an effort to delay or obstruct legislation that he (or she) opposes
william jefferson clinton;42nd president of the united states (1946- )
osteopathist;a therapist who manipulates the skeleton and muscles
woman of the house;a wife who keeps house while her husband earns the family income
trapshooter;a person who engages in shooting at clay pigeons that are hurled into the air by a trap
woodsman;makes things out of wood
en lil;(sumerian) god of the air and king of the sumerian gods
attender;a regular customer
vanquisher;someone who is victorious by force of arms
sophisticate;a worldly-wise person
shipwright;a carpenter who helps build and launch wooden vessels
bacchanal;someone who engages in drinking bouts
afrikander;a white native of cape province who is a descendant of dutch settlers and who speaks afrikaans
deputy;someone authorized to exercise the powers of sheriff in emergencies
supernatural being;"an incorporeal being with powers to affect the course of human events"
section man;someone who teaches a section of a large college course
basileus;a ruler of the eastern roman empire
sri lankan;a native or inhabitant of sri lanka
wolf;a cruelly rapacious person
spinster;someone who spins (who twists fibers into threads)
career girl;a woman who follows a professional career
mycophagist;a person who eats fungi (especially mushrooms)
noctambulist;someone who walks about in their sleep
innocent;a person who lacks knowledge of evil
adherent;someone who believes and helps to spread the doctrine of another
middleweight;a boxer who weighs no more than 160 pounds
brutus;statesman of ancient rome who (with cassius) led a conspiracy to assassinate julius caesar (85-42 bc)
ideal;model of excellence or perfection of a kind. one having no equal
gunman;a person who shoots a gun (as regards their ability)
comer;someone with a promising future
eolian;a member of one of the four divisions of the prehistoric greeks
gaolbird;a person serving a prison sentence
financier;a person skilled in large scale financial transactions
jock;a person trained to compete in sports
island dweller;an inhabitant of an island
proconsul;a provincial governor of consular rank in the roman republic and roman empire
roue;a dissolute man in fashionable society
back;(football) a person who plays in the backfield
pedagogue;someone who educates
willard van orman quine;1908-
top executive;a very wealthy or powerful businessman: 'an oil baron'
goethe;(1749-1832) german poet and novelist and dramatist who lived in weimar
mahican;a member of the algonquian people formerly living the hudson valley and eastward to the housatonic
virago;a noisy or scolding or domineering woman
man of affairs;a person engaged in commercial or industrial business (especially an owner or executive)
goddess;a female deity
adonis;any handsome young man
minoan;a cretan who lived in the bronze-age culture of crete about 3000-1100 bc
vagrant;a wanderer who has no established residence or visible means of support
pedofile;an adult who is sexually attracted to children
accoucheur;a physician specializing in obstetrics
senora;a spanish title of respect for a married woman
george washington;1st president of the united states. commander-in-chief of the continental army during the american revolution (1732-1799)
collector;a person who is employed to collect payments (as for rent or taxes)
reagan;40th president of the united states (1911- )
akwa ala;a member of a north american indian people living in baja california
lawyer;a professional person authorized to practice law. conducts lawsuits or gives legal advice
house dick;a private detective employed by a hotel or retail store
mill girl;a girl who works in a mill
oilman;a worker who produces or sells petroleum
athenian;a resident of athens
hosteller;an owner or manager of hotels
factory worker;a worker in a mill or factory
literary agent;an agent who represents an author is dealings with publishers
guarani;a member of the south american people living in paraguay and bolivia
md;a licensed medical practitioner. 'i felt so bad i went to see my doctor'
fire warden;an official who is responsible for managing and protecting an area of forest
runner;a trained athlete who competes in foot races
quad;one of four children born at the same time
king;a very wealthy or powerful businessman: 'an oil baron'
pallas athena;(greek mythology) goddess of wisdom and useful arts and prudent warfare. guardian of athens. identified with roman minerva
cat;an informal term for a youth or man. 'a nice guy'. 'the guy's only doing it for some doll'
postulant;one submitting a request or application especially one seeking admission into a religious order
doctor of the church;a leading theologian in the history of the roman catholic church. 'the doctors of the church greatly influenced christian thought down to the late middle ages'
shaw;1856-1950
north carolinian;a resident of north carolina
cyclist;a person who rides a bicycle
lineman;a person who installs or repairs electrical or telephone lines
european;a native or inhabitant of europe
female person;a person who belongs to the sex that can have babies
savage;a member of an uncivilized people
mandarin;a high public official of the chinese empire
hockey player;an athlete who plays hockey
corner man;a man at one end of line of performers in a minstrel show. carries on humorous dialogue with the interlocutor
taste maker;someone who popularizes a new fashion
bo sun;a petty officer on a merchant ship who controls the work of other seamen
gay woman;a female homosexual
highflier;a person of great ability and ambition
carrier;a man who delivers the mail
churl;a bad-tempered person
caroller;a singer of carols
rector;a person authorized to conduct religious worship
unkind person;a person of mean disposition
kenyan;a native or inhabitant of kenya
navvy;a laborer who is obliged to do menial work
hephaestus;(greek mythology) the lame god of fire and metal-working in ancient mythology. identified with roman vulcan
john dalton;english chemist and physicist who formulated atomic theory and the law of partial pressures (1766-1844)
elder hand;the card player on the dealer's left
monitor;someone who gives a warning so that a mistake can be avoided
champion;someone who has won first place in a competition
william butler yeats;1865-1939
reasoner;someone who reasons logically
auditor;someone who audits accounts
vegetarian;one who eats no meat or fish or (often) any animal products
secretary of energy;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of energy. 'the first secretary of energy was james r. schlesinger who was appointed by carter'
frederick ii;(1194-1250) holy roman emperor. led the sixth crusade and crowned himself king of jerusalem
fulton;american inventor who designed the first commercially successful steamboat and the first steam warship (1765-1815)
colossus;someone who is abnormally large
friend;a person with whom you are acquainted. 'i have trouble remembering the names of all my acquaintances'. 'we are friends of the family'
supreme being;the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe. the object of worship in monotheistic religions
saviour;a prophet of the first century (circa 8 bc - 29 ad). to christians he was both god and man--the messiah sent to save the human race from the sin it inherited through the fall of man
bagman;a salesman who travels to call on customers
theban;an inhabitant of ancient thebes
herod;(73-4 bc) king of judea who (according to the new testament) tried to kill jesus by ordering the death of all children under age two in bethlehem
santee dakota;a member of the eastern branch of the sioux
indian giver;one who ask you to return the present he has given you
victoria;(1819-1901) queen of great britain and ireland and empress of india
operagoer;a patron of the opera
keb;god of the earth. father of osiris and isis
heimdallr;god of dawn and light. guardian of asgard
defaulter;someone who fails to make a required appearance in court
tamil;a member of the mixed dravidian and caucasoid people of southern india and sri lanka
yeoman;in former times was free and cultivated his own land
taker;one who accepts an offer
alexander;(356-323 bc) king of macedon. conqueror of greece and egypt and persia. founder of alexandria
kin;a person having kinship with another or others. 'he's kin'. 'he's family'
proprietress;a woman proprietor
teetotaler;a total abstainer
prowler;someone who prowls or sneaks about. usually with unlawful intentions
chancellor;(british) the honorary or titular head of a university
britisher;a native or inhabitant of great britain
server;a person whose occupation is to serve at table (as in a restaurant)
mithra;ancient persian god of light and truth. sun god
blood brother;a male with the same parents as someone else. 'my brother still lives with our parents'
hela;goddess of the dead and queen of the underworld
night porter;a porter on duty during the night
taxi dancer;a woman employed to dance with patrons who pay a fee for each dance
saint francis of assisi;(1181-1226) italian monk who founded the franciscan order of friars
rich man;a man who is wealthy
crooner;a singer of popular ballads
moderator;someone who mediates disputes and attempts to avoid violence
maldivian;a native or inhabitant of maldives
appraiser;one who estimates officially the worth or value or quality of things
bolingbroke;(1367-1413) the first lancastrian king of england from 1399 to 1413. deposed richard ii and suppressed rebellions
pensioner;the beneficiary of a pension fund
john;(1167-1216) youngest son of henry ii and king of england from 1199 to 1216. succeeded to the throne on the death of his brother richard i. lost his french possessions. in 1215 john was compelled by the barons to sign the magna carta
dominee;a clergyman. especially a settled minister or parson
mate;a fellow member of a team. 'it was his first start against his former teammates'
crusader;a disputant who advocates reform
nonstarter;a person with a record of failing
maratha;a member of a people of india living in maharashtra
coauthor;a writer who collaborates with others in writing something
stinker;a person who is deemed to be despicable or contemptible. 'only a rotter would do that'. 'kill the rat'. 'throw the bum out'. 'you cowardly little pukes!'
professional tennis player;someone who earns a living playing or teaching tennis
austronesian;a native or inhabitant of austronesia
voltaire;(1694-1778) french writer. author of 'candide'
knocker;one who disparages or belittles the worth of something
anchorperson;a television reporter who coordinates a broadcast to which several correspondents contribute
baron;a very wealthy or powerful businessman: 'an oil baron'
pakistani;a native or inhabitant of pakistan
provoker;someone who deliberately foments trouble. 'she was the instigator of their quarrel'
qatari;a native or inhabitant of qatar
windbag;talks a great deal about uninteresting topics
conjuror;a witch doctor who practices conjury
widower;a man whose wife is dead especially one who has not remarried
bishop ulfila;a christian bishop who translated the bible from greek into gothic (311-382)
skin and bones;a person who is unusually thin
remover;(british) someone who works for a moving company
darwin;english natural scientist whose 'on the origin of species' formulated a theory of evolution by natural selection (1809-1882)
parachutist;a person who jumps from aircraft using a parachute
typist;someone paid to operate a typewriter
spend all;someone who spends money prodigally
rumrunner;someone who illegally smuggles liquor across a border
chester alan arthur;elected vice president and became 21st president of the united states when garfield was assassinated (1830-1886)
votary;a priest or priestess (or consecrated worshipper) in a non-christian religion or cult: 'a votary of aphrodite'
johnson;17th president of the united states. was elected vice president and succeeded lincoln when lincoln was assassinated. was impeached but acquitted by one vote (1808-1875)
tolstoy;a russian author remembered for two novels: 'war and peace' and 'anna karenina' (1828-1910)
tongan;a native or inhabitant of tonga
mahratta;a member of a people of india living in maharashtra
devil;a cruel wicked and inhuman person
high up;an important or influential person
huxley;1825-1895
sodomist;someone who engages in anal copulation (especially a male who engages in anal copulation with another male)
theodore roosevelt;26th president of the united states. hero of the spanish-american war. panama canal was built during his administration. said 'speak softly but carry a big stick' (1858-1919)
hypnotizer;a person who induces hypnosis
control;a spiritual agency that is assumed to assist the medium during a seance
squire;young nobleman attendant on a knight
connection;a supplier (especially of narcotics)
playactor;an actor who travels around the country presenting plays
margrave;a german nobleman ranking above a count (corresponding in rank to a british marquess)
egocentric;a self-centered person with little regard for others
seismologist;a scientist who studies earthquakes
luxembourger;a native or inhabitant of luxembourg
nobel laureate;winner of a nobel prize
numismatologist;a collector and student of money (and coins in particular)
granddaughter;a female grandchild
housekeeper;a servant who is employed to perform domestic task in a household
demonstrator;someone who demonstrates an article to a prospective buyer
foreman;a person who exercises control over workers. 'if you want to leave early you have to ask the foreman'
indo european;a member of the prehistoric people who spoke proto-indo_european
ambassadress;a woman ambassador
bungler;someone who makes mistakes because of incompetence
pleb;one of the common people
ribald;a ribald person. someone who uses vulgar and offensive language
owner occupier;a occupant who owns the home that he/she lives in
art historian;a historian of art
booking clerk;someone who sells tickets (e.g., theater seats or travel accommodations)
carpenter;a woodworker who makes or repairs wooden objects
thunderbird;(mythology) the spirit of thunder and lightning believed by native americans to take the shape of a great bird
son;the divine word of god. the second person in the trinity (incarnate in jesus)
physical therapist;a therapist who treats injury or dysfunction with exercises and other physical treatments of the disorder
lummox;an awkward stupid person
foe;an armed adversary (especially a member of an opposing military force). 'a soldier must be prepared to kill his enemies'
constable;a lawman with less authority and jurisdiction than a sheriff
smuggler;someone who imports or exports without paying duties
grimm;the younger of the two grimm brothers remembered best for their fairy stories (1786-1859)
baritone;a male singer
overseer;a person who directs and manages an organization
stretcher bearer;one who helps carry a stretcher
renaissance man;a modern scholar who is in a position to acquire more than superficial knowledge about many different interests. 'a statistician has to be something of a generalist'
vicar;a roman catholic priest who acts for another higher-ranking clergyman
attendant;a person who is present
igigi;any of a group of heavenly spirits under the god anu
matthew;disciple of jesus. author of the first gospel
wimp;a person who lacks confidence, is irresolute and wishy-washy
user;someone who consumes drugs
waiter;a person whose occupation is to serve at table (as in a restaurant)
bondswoman;someone who signs a bond as surety for someone else
maid;a female domestic
trooper;a soldier in a motorized army unit
sonny;a male child (a familiar term of address to a boy)
nepali;a native or inhabitant of nepal
gauguin;1848-1903
heavyweight;a boxer who weighs more than 195 pounds
johnson;36th president of the united states. was elected vice president and succeeded kennedy when kennedy was assassinated (1908-1973)
labor leader;a leader of a labor movement
sobersides;a serious and sedate individual
capitalist;an advocate of capitalism
student teacher;a college student who is teaching under the supervision of a certified teacher in order to qualify for a degree in education
pip squeak;someone who is small and insignificant
naturist;a person who practices nudity for reasons of health or religion
oarsman;someone who rows a boat
director;the person who leads a musical group
railway man;an employee of a railroad
love child;the illegitimate offspring of unmarried parents
shiite;a member of the branch of islam that regards ali as the legitimate successor to mohammed and rejects the first three caliphs
pin up;a very pretty girl who works as a photographer's model
sir winston churchill;(1874-1965) british conservative statesman. british leader during world war ii. received nobel prize for literature in 1953
slob;a coarse obnoxious person
selkup;one of the people of mixed ostyak and samoyed origin in siberia
turcoman;a member of a turkic people living in turkmenistan and neighboring areas
hephaistos;(greek mythology) the lame god of fire and metal-working in ancient mythology. identified with roman vulcan
queen dowager;the widow of a king
sandwichman;a person with advertising boards hanging from the shoulders
base runner;a baseball player on the team at bat who is on base (or attempting to reach a base)
shopkeeper;a merchant who owns or manages a shop
franklin delano roosevelt;32nd president of the united states. elected four times. instituted new deal to counter the great depression and led country during world war ii (1882-1945)
cruiserweight;weighs no more than 195 pounds
military leader;supreme military leader exercising civil power in a region especially one accountable to nobody when the central government is weak
entrant;one who enters a competition
gautama;founder of buddhism. c 563-483 b.c.. worshipped as a god
anti semite;someone who hates and would persecute jews
malawian;a native or inhabitant of malawi
vidar;one of the aesir. son of odin. avenges his parent by slaying fenrir at ragnarok
taker;one who takes a bet or wager
ascetic;practices self denial as spiritual discipline
peripatetic;a person who walks from place to place
yeoman of the guard;officer in the (ceremonial) bodyguard of the british monarch
saint brigid;irish abbess. a patron saint of ireland
thomas gainsborough;1727-1788
doctrinaire;an stubborn person of arbitrary or arrogant opinions
fireman;a member of a fire department who tries to extinguish fires
record keeper;someone responsible for keeping records
gravida;a pregnant woman
netherlander;a native or inhabitant of holland
deipnosophist;someone skilled at across-the-table chit chat
gun;a person who shoots a gun (as regards their ability)
putter;a golfer who is putting
mooncurser;someone who imports or exports without paying duties
weeper;a person who weeps
maitreya;the bodhisattva who is to appear as a buddha 5000 years after the death of gautama
boxer;someone who fights with his fists for sport
demon;a cruel wicked and inhuman person
arminius;german hero. leader at the battle of teutoburger wald in 9 ad (circa 18 bc - 19 ad)
serjeant at law;an english barrister of the highest rank
headsman;an executioner who beheads the condemned person
claims adjustor;one who investigates insurance claims or claims for damages and recommends an effective settlement
attorney general;the person who holds the position of secretary of the justice department. 'edmund randolph was the first attorney general, appointed by president washington'
professional;an athlete who plays for pay
anton pavlovich chekhov;russian dramatist (1860-1904)
provider;someone who provides the means for subsistence
visayan;a member of the most numerous indigenous people of the philippines
senor;a spanish title of respect for a man. equivalent to english 'mr'
skirt;informal terms for a (young) woman
apostle;one of the original 12 disciples chosen by christ to preach his gospel
ramrod;a harshly demanding overseer
clumsy person;a person with poor motor coordination
kwannon;japanese counterpart of chinese kuan_yin.
adult female;an adult female person (as opposed to a man). 'the woman kept house while the man hunted'
female;a person who belongs to the sex that can have babies
important person;a person whose actions and opinions strongly influence the course of events
cosmographist;a scientist knowledgeable about cosmography
demigod;a person who is part mortal and part god
poltroon;an abject coward
colored person;a us term for blacks that is now considered offensive
towner;a resident of a town or city
parachuter;a person who jumps from aircraft using a parachute
police detective;a police officer who investigates crimes
dwight david eisenhower;as supreme commander of the allied expeditionary force he supervised the invasion of normandy and the defeat of nazi germany. 34th president of the united states (1890-1961)
saxophonist;a musician who plays the saxophone
section eight;a soldier who received a section eight discharge as unfit for military service
vanir;race of ancient norse gods sometimes in conflict with the aesir
rubberneck;a tourist who is visiting sights of interest
count;a nobleman (in various countries) having rank equal to a british earl
stone breaker;(british) someone who breaks up stone
sultan;the ruler of a muslim country (especially of the former ottoman empire)
bullyboy;a swaggering tough. usually one acting as an agent of a political faction
philosopher;a wise person who is calm and rational. someone who lives a life of reason with equanimity
apologist;a person who argues to defend or justify some policy or institution. 'an apologist for capital punishment'
liberian;a native or inhabitant of liberia
james knox polk;11th president of the united states. his expansionism led to the mexican war and the annexation of california and much of the southwest (1795-1849)
literary pirate;someone who uses another person's words or ideas is they were his own
friend;a person you know well and regard with affection and trust. 'he was my best friend at the university'
sounding board;a person whose reactions to something serve as an indication of its acceptability. 'i would use newspapermen as a sounding board for such policies'
falsifier;someone who falsifies
japanese deity;a deity worshipped by the japanese
bombardier;the member of a bomber crew responsible for using the bombsight and releasing the bombs on the target
uzbeg;a member of a turkic people of uzbekistan and neighboring areas
fuckhead;these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
gamekeeper;a person employed to take care of game and wildlife
pig;a person regarded as greedy and pig-like
quechua;a member of a south american indian indian people in peru
lancelot;(arthurian legend) one of the knights of the round table. friend of king arthur until (according to some versions of the legend) he became the lover of arthur's wife guinevere
guide;someone who shows the way by leading or advising
franc tireur;a sharpshooter (in the french army)
captain;the naval officer in command of a military ship
contriver;a person who makes plans
adam;(old testament) in judeo-christian mythology. the first man and progenitor of the human race
rommany;a member of a nomadic people originating in n india and now living on all continents
metalworker;someone who works metal (especially by hammering it when it is hot and malleable)
grenadier;an infantryman equipped with grenades
johannes kepler;german astronomer who first stated laws of planetary motion (1571-1630)
beefeater;officer in the (ceremonial) bodyguard of the british monarch
con artist;a swindler who exploits the confidence of his victim
tarahumara;a member of the taracahitian people of north central mexico
aspirant;an aspiring young person. 'two executive hopefuls joined the firm'. 'the audience was full of madonna wannabes'
karl rudolf gerd von rundstedt;german field marshal in world war ii who directed the conquest of poland and led the ardennes counteroffensive (1875-1953)
tumbler;a gymnast who performs rolls and somersaults and twists etc.
alfred dreyfus;(1859-1935) french army officer of jewish descent whose false imprisonment for treason in 1894 raised issues of anti-semitism that dominated french politics until his release in 1906
osculator;someone who kisses
nonsuch;model of excellence or perfection of a kind. one having no equal
bargeman;someone who operates a barge
judge advocate general;the senior legal advisor to a branch of the military
feudatory;a person holding a fief
oppenheimer;american physicist who directed the project at los alamos that developed the first atomic bomb (1904-1967)
hussar;a member of a european light cavalry unit. renowned for elegant dress
journeyman;a skilled worker who practices some trade or handicraft
spy;a secret agent hired by a state to obtain (military) information about its enemies
monsignor;(roman catholic church) an ecclesiastical title of honor bestowed on some priests
librarian;a professional person trained in library science and engaged in library services
leaver;someone who leaves
someone;"a human being. 'there was too much for one person to do'"
yucateco;a member of the mayan people of the yucatan peninsula in mexico
mongolian;a member of the nomadic peoples of mongolia
scapegoat;someone punished for the errors of others
rewrite man;someone who puts text into appropriate form for publication
shivaist;worshipper of shiva
richard i;(1157-1199) son of henry ii and king of england from 1189 to 1199. a leader of the third crusade. on his way home from the crusade he was captured and held prisoner in the holy roman empire until england ransomed him in 1194
robert e lee;american general who led the confederate armies in the american civil war (1807-1870)
wholesaler;someone who buys large quantities of goods and resells to merchants rather than to the ultimate customers
minion;a follower who hangs around in hope of gain or advantage
manakin;a woman who wears clothes to display fashions. 'she was too fat to be a mannequin'
tyro;someone new to a field or activity
miser;a hoarder of money and possessions (often living miserably)
principal;the educator who has executive authority for a school. 'she sent unruly pupils to see the principal'
legal representative;a personal representative with legal standing (as by power of attorney or the executor of a will)
new zealander;a native or inhabitant of new zealand
rationalist;someone who emphasizes observable facts and excludes metaphysical speculation about origins or ultimate causes
hothead;a belligerent grouch
leto;wife or mistress of zeus and mother of apollo and artemis in ancient mythology. called latona in roman mythology
sea god;a deity believed to live in or to control the sea
woodman;someone who lives in the woods
commissioner;a government administrator
esther;(old testament) a beautiful jewess chosen by the king of persia to be his queen. she stopped a plot to massacre all the jews in persia (an event celebrated by jews as the feast of purim)
signer;someone who signs and is bound by a document
roofer;a craftsman who lays or repairs roofs
mussolini;1883-1945
babe ruth;(1895-1948) us professional baseball player famous for hitting home runs
estate agent;a person who is authorized to act as an agent for the sale of land. 'in england they call a realtor a land agent'
troubleshooter;a worker whose job is to locate and fix sources of trouble (especially in mechanical devices)
hera;queen of the olympian gods in ancient greek mythology. sister and wife of zeus remembered for her jealously of the many mortal women zeus fell in love with. identified with roman juno
bride to be;a woman who is engaged to be married
salish;a member of a group of north american indians speaking a salishan language and living on the nw coast of north america
editor;a person responsible for the editorial aspects of publication
woodworker;makes things out of wood
mata hari;dutch dancer who was executed by the french as a german spy in world war i (1876-1917)
george bernard shaw;1856-1950
rabelais;author of satirical attacks on medieval scholasticism (1494-1553)
wharf rat;someone who lives near wharves and lives by pilfering from ships or warehouses
call girl;a female prostitute who can be hired by telephone
slacker;a person who shirks their work or duty
uzbek;a member of a turkic people of uzbekistan and neighboring areas
dearie;a special loved one
con man;a swindler who exploits the confidence of his victim
herbalist;a therapist who heals by the use of herbs
banneret;a knight honored for valor. entitled to display a square banner and to hold higher command
burgoyne;british general in the american revolution who lost the battle of saratoga in 1777 (1722-1792)
sojourner;a temporary resident
gibraltarian;a native or inhabitant of gibraltar
star;someone who is very highly skilled
forbear;a person from whom you are descended
newsman;a person who investigates and reports or edits news stories
section hand;a laborer assigned to a section gang
gerald ford;38th president of the united states. appointed vice president and succeeded nixon when nixon resigned (1913- )
child;a young person of either sex (between birth and puberty). 'she writes books for children'. 'they're just kids'. 'tiddler' is a british term for youngsters'
good person;a person who is good to other people
albert einstein;physicist who formulated the special theory of relativity and the general theory of relativity (1879-1955)
fatalist;anyone who submits to the belief that they are powerless to change their destiny
whited sepulcher;a person who is inwardly evil but outwardly professes to be virtuous
goldbeater;an artisan who beats gold into gold leaf
demetrius i;son of antigonus cyclops and king of macedonia. he and his father were defeated at the battle of ipsus (337-283 bc)
letterman;an athlete who has earned a letter in a school sport
nonesuch;model of excellence or perfection of a kind. one having no equal
old hickory;7th president of the us. successfully defended new orleans from the british in 1815. (1767-1845)
ironmonger;someone who sells hardware. 'in england they call a hardwareman an ironmonger'
dietitian;a specialist in the study of nutrition
redneck;a poor white person in the southern us
gwydion;(irish) sky god. a magician. giver of arts and civilization
muzjik;a russian peasant (especially prior to 1917)
wright;someone who makes or repairs something (usually used in combination)
negro;a person with dark skin who comes from africa (or whose ancestors came from africa)
yana;a member of an extinct north american indian people who lived in the pit river valley in n california
exhibitionist;someone who deliberately behaves in such a way as to attract attention
dr.;a licensed medical practitioner. 'i felt so bad i went to see my doctor'
foe;a personal enemy. 'they had been political foes for years'
superintendent;a person who directs and manages an organization
clotheshorse;a man who is much concerned with his dress and appearance
somnambulist;someone who walks about in their sleep
radiotherapist;a medical specialist who uses radioactive substances and x-rays in the treatment of disease
clown;a person who amuses others by ridiculous behavior
pianist;a person who plays the piano
vulgarian;a vulgar person
shudra;a member of the lowest or worker hindu caste
lawmaker;a maker of laws. someone who gives a code of laws
traitor;someone who betrays his country by committing treason
genius;someone who has exceptional intellectual ability and originality
churchgoer;a religious person who goes to church regularly
marco polo;venetian traveler who explored asia in the 13th century and served kublai khan (1254-1324)
black sheep;a reckless and unprincipled reprobate
job s comforter;someone whose comfort is actually discouraging
malefactor;someone who has committed (or been legally convicted of) a crime
patrial;(british) a person who has the right to be considered legally a british citizen (by virtue of the birth of a parent or grandparent)
recreant;a disloyal person who forsakes his cause or religion or political party or friend etc.
badaga;a member of an agricultural people of s india
hopi;a member of the shoshonean people of ne arizona
full general;a general officer of the highest rank
debater;someone who engages in debate
recipient;a person who gets something
flunkey;a male servant (especially a footman)
operator;someone who owns or operates a business. 'who is the operator of this franchise?'
corinthian;a man devoted to the pursuit of pleasure
southpaw;a person who uses the left hand with greater skill than the right. 'their pitcher was a southpaw'
double;a stand-in for movie stars to perform dangerous stunts. 'his first job in hollywood was as a double for clrak gable'
cooky;the cook on a ranch or at a camp
hindustani;a native or inhabitant of hindustan or india
whip;a legislator appointed by the party to enforce discipline
feral man;a person who is not socialized
dalai lama;chief lama and once ruler of tibet
presbyterian;a follower of calvinism as taught in the presbyterian church
wonder boy;a man who is unusually successful at an early age
thurifer;an acolyte who carries a thurible
here;queen of the olympian gods in ancient greek mythology. sister and wife of zeus remembered for her jealously of the many mortal women zeus fell in love with. identified with roman juno
technician;someone whose occupation involves training in a specific technical process
singer;a person who sings
phaethon;son of helios. killed when trying to drive his father's chariot and came too close to earth
washington;1st president of the united states. commander-in-chief of the continental army during the american revolution (1732-1799)
forty niner;a miner who took part in the california gold rush in 1849
patzer;a poor chess player
ariadne;beautiful daughter of minos and pasiphae. she fell in love with theseus and gave him the thread with which he found his way out of the minotaur's labyrinth
necromancer;one who practices magic or sorcery
chechoslovak;a native or inhabitant of czechoslovakia
envoy extraordinary;a diplomat having less authority than an ambassador
adolescent;a juvenile between the onset of puberty and maturity
rough rider;a member of the volunteer cavalry regiment led by theodore roosevelt in the spanish-american war (1898)
football coach;a coach of football players
transsexual;a person who has undergone a sex change operation
placeman;(british) a disparaging term for an appointee
critic;someone who frequently finds fault or makes harsh and unfair judgments
camp follower;a prostitute who provides service to military personnel
high priest;a senior clergyman
shipowner;someone who owns a ship or a share in a ship
captive;a person who is confined. especially a prisoner of war
city editor;the newspaper editor in charge of editing local news
window cleaner;someone who cleans windows for pay
tycoon;a very wealthy or powerful businessman: 'an oil baron'
washerwoman;a working woman who takes in washing
spiv;(british) a person without employment who makes money by various dubious schemes. goes about smartly dressed and having a good time
voice;(metonymy) a singer. 'he wanted to hear trained voices sing it'
algerian;a native or inhabitant of algeria
wingman;the pilot positions his aircraft outside and behind (on the wing of) the leader of a flying formation
leading light;a celebrity who is an inspiration to others. 'he was host to a large gathering of luminaries'
delawarean;a resident of delaware
lackey;a person who tries to please someone in order to gain a personal advantage
poop;a stupid foolish person
tree surgeon;a specialist in treating damaged trees
mulatto;an offspring of a black and a white parent
image breaker;someone who tries to destroy traditional ideas or institutions
dean;(roman catholic) the head of the college of cardinals
banker;someone who owns or is an executive in a bank
karl marx;founder of modern communism. wrote the communist manifesto with engels in 1848. wrote das kapital in 1867 (1818-1883)
beer maker;someone who brews beer or ale from malt and hops and water
mohave;a member of the north american indian people formerly living in the colorado river valley in arizona and nevada and california
john;disciple of jesus. author of the 4th gospel
presiding officer;the leader of a group meeting
barbary pirate;a pirate along the barbary coast
decadent;a person who has fallen into a decadent state (morally or artistically)
namtar;(sumerian and akkadian) a demon personifying death. messenger of the underworld goddess ereshkigal bringing death to mankind
dagda;(irish) chief god of the tuatha de danann. father of angus og and brigit
choirboy;a boy who sings in a choir
chorister;a singer in a choir
bagman;a racketeer assigned to collect or distribute payoff money
ship s chandler;a dealer in sails and ropes and other supplies for sailing ships
dean;an administrator in charge of a division of a university or college
spirit rapper;someone who claims to receive messages from the dead in the form of raps on a table
cripple;someone whose legs are disabled
forebear;a person from whom you are descended
defamer;one who attacks the reputation of another by slander or libel
automotive engineer;an engineer concerned with the design and construction of automobiles
picaninny;(offensive) a black child
beckett;an author born in ireland who lived in france. wrote plays for the theater of the absurd (1906-1989)
jesus of nazareth;a prophet of the first century (circa 8 bc - 29 ad). to christians he was both god and man--the messiah sent to save the human race from the sin it inherited through the fall of man
spindleshanks;a thin person with long thin legs
glenn;made the first orbital rocket-powered flight by a us astronaut in 1962. later in us senate
metropolitan;a person who lives in a metropolis
minister of finance;the minister responsible for state finances
stalwart;a person who is loyal to their allegiance (especially in times of revolt)
higher up;one of greater rank or station or quality
developer;someone who contracts for and supervises the construction of a building
pantywaist;a timid man or boy considered childish or unassertive
agent;any agent or representative of a federal agency or bureau
ali baba;the woodcutter who discovered that 'open sesame' opens the cave of the forty thieves (arabian nights' entertainments)
cutter;someone who cuts or carves stone
lithographer;a printmaker who uses lithography
cosmetologist;an expert in the use of cosmetics
neighbour;a person who lives (or is located) near another
hungarian;a native or inhabitant of hungary
mandarin;any high government official or bureaucrat
john the baptist;(new testament) a preacher and hermit and forerunner of jesus (whom he baptized). was beheaded by herod at the request of salome
maya;a member of an american indian people of yucatan and belize and guatemala who once had a culture characterized by outstanding architecture and pottery and astronomy
rival;the contestant you hope to defeat. 'he had respect for his rivals'. 'he wanted to know what the competition was doing'
nintoo;a name under which ninkhursag was worshipped
hombre;an informal term for a youth or man. 'a nice guy'. 'the guy's only doing it for some doll'
bookworm;someone who spends a great deal of time reading
newcomer;any new participant in some activity
testator;a person who makes a will
semitic deity;a deity worshipped by the ancient semites
the buddha;founder of buddhism. c 563-483 b.c.. worshipped as a god
recruit;any new member or supporter (as in the armed forces)
cragsman;a climber of vertical rock faces
president;the chief executive of a republic
stooge;a person of unquestioning obedience
chilean;a native or inhabitant of chile
customer s man;someone in charge of a client's account for an advertising agency or brokerage or other service business
academician;an educator who works at a college or university
fink;someone acting as an informer or decoy for the police
ratifier;someone who expresses strong approval
hypnotist;a person who induces hypnosis
cistercian;member of an order of monks noted for austerity and a vow of silence
ignoramus;an ignorant person
mason;a craftsman who works with stone or brick
moocher;someone who mooches or cadges (tries to get something free)
detective;a police officer who investigates crimes
roman deity;a deity worshipped by the ancient romans
ritualist;a social anthropologist who is expert on rites and ceremonies
henry morgan;a buccaneer who raided spanish colonies in the west indies for the english
exorcist;someone who practices exorcism
companion;a person who is frequently in the company of another. 'drinking companions'. 'comrades in arms'
successor;a person who follows. 'he is president bush's successor'
bibliothec;a professional person trained in library science and engaged in library services
petrarch;an italian poet famous for love lyrics (1304-1374)
fuckup;someone who makes mistakes because of incompetence
bearer;a messenger who bears or presents. 'a bearer of good tidings'
postilion;someone who rides the near horse of a pair in order to guide the horses pulling a carriage (especially a carriage without a coachman)
father;a male parent (also used as a term of address to your father). 'his father was born in atlanta'
syndicalist;an advocate of anarchism
civil authority;a person who exercises authority over civilian affairs
speechwriter;a writer who composes speeches for others to deliver
scout;a person employed to watch for something to happen
manawyddan;(welsh) sea god. son of llyr
porter;someone who guards the entrance to a building
pitcher;(baseball or softball) the person who does the pitching. 'our pitcher has a sore arm'
auctioneer;an agent who conducts an auction
jagannath;an avatar of vishnu
pistoleer;someone armed with a pistol (especially a soldier so armed)
saboteur;someone who commits sabotage
favorite;a special loved one
kid;a human offspring (son or daughter) of any age. 'they had three children'. 'they were able to send their kids to college'
halberdier;a guard who carries a halberd (as a symbol of his duty)
right winger;a member of a right wing political party
artificer;a skilled worker who practices some trade or handicraft
st. brigid;irish abbess. a patron saint of ireland
daemon;a person who is part mortal and part god
saul;a christian missionary to the gentiles. author of several epistles in the new testament. even though paul was not present at the last supper he is considered an apostle
bookworm;a person who pays more attention to formal rules and book learning than they merit
joseph;(old testament) the 11th son of jacob and one of the 12 patriarchs of israel. jacob gave joseph a coat of many colors, which made his brother jealous and the sold him into slavery in egypt
poor white;an offensive term for white people who are impoverished
goalie;the hockey player assigned to protect the goal
mother;a woman who has given birth to a child (also used as a term of address to your mother). 'the mother of three children'
nobelist;winner of a nobel prize
landman;a person who lives and works on land
trombonist;a musician who plays the trombone
watcher;a guard who keeps watch
foreigner;a person who comes from a foreign country. someone who does not owe allegiance to your country
hawaiian;a resident of hawaii
john quincy adams;6th president of the united states and son of the 2nd president (1767-1848)
nauran;a native or inhabitant of nauru
worrier;thinks about unfortunate things that might happen
sweep;someone who cleans soot from chimneys
manawydan;(welsh) sea god. son of llyr
atlas;a titan in ancient mythology who was forced by zeus to bear the sky on his shoulders
whiner;a person given to excessive complaints and crying
columnist;a journalist who writes editorials
school superintendent;the superintendent of a school system
lifter;an athlete who lifts barbells
interpreter;someone who mediates between speakers of different languages
brewer;the owner or manager of a brewery
courtier;an attendant at the court of a sovereign
tough;a cruel and brutal fellow
hewer;a person who hews
republican;a member of the republican party
brazilian;a native or inhabitant of brazil
sib;one related by blood or origin. especially on sharing an ancestor with another
head;a person who is in charge. 'the head of the whole operation'
amorist;one dedicated to love and lovemaking especially one who writes about love
gwyn;(welsh) underworld god
mental case;a person suffering from neurosis
inanna;(sumerian) consort of dumuzi (tammuz)
territorial;nonprofessional soldier member of a territorial military unit
astronaut;a person trained to travel in a spacecraft. 'the russians called their astronauts cosmonauts'
jew baiter;someone who hates and would persecute jews
end man;a man at one end of line of performers in a minstrel show. carries on humorous dialogue with the interlocutor
khalkha;the mongol people living the the central and eastern parts of outer mongolia
brakeman;a railroad employee responsible for a train's brakes
tec;a police officer who investigates crimes
antigonus cyclops;a general of alexander the great and king of macedonia. lost one eye. killed in a battle at ipsus (382-301 bc)
candidate;someone who is considered for something (for an office or prize or honor etc.)
broker;a businessman who buys or sells for another in exchange for a commission
partitionist;an advocate of partitioning a country
mumbler;a person who speaks indistinctly
erebus;(greek mythology) god of darkness who dwelt in the underworld. son of chaos. brother of nox. father of aether and day
horus;falcon-headed solar god
man;the generic use of the word to refer to any human being. 'it was every man for himself'
torchbearer;a leader in a campaign or movement
james;disciple of jesus. brother of john. author of the epistle of james in the new testament
big brother;an older brother
ploughwright;a workman who makes and repairs plows
florist;someone who grows and deals in flowers. 'the florist made up an attractive bouquet'
standby;an actor able to replace a regular performer when required
eyeish;a member of the caddo people of ne texas
hemophile;someone who has hemophilia and is subject to uncontrollable bleeding
songster;a composer of words or music for popular songs
grover cleveland;22nd and 24th president of the united states (1837-1908)
portuguese;a native or inhabitant of portugal
janissary;a loyal supporter. 'every politician has a following of janissaries'
father;'father' is a term of address for priests in some churches (especially roman or orthodox catholic). 'padre' is frequently used in the military
actor;a person who acts and gets things done. 'he's a principal actor in this affair'. 'when you want something done get a doer'. 'he's a miracle worker'
interlocutor;a person who takes part in a conversation
sir gawain;(arthurian legend) one of the knights of the round table
highness;(your highness or his highness of her highness) title used to address a royal person
widow;a woman whose husband is dead especially one who has not remarried
coin collector;a collector and student of money (and coins in particular)
animist;one who accepts the doctrine of animism
mamma s boy;a boy excessively attached to his mother. lacking normal masculine interests
baldr;god of light and peace and noted for his beauty and sweet nature. son of odin and frigg and husband of nanna. killed by hoth
old codger;used affectionately to refer to an eccentric but amusing old man
david;the 2nd king of the israelites. as a young shepherd he fought goliath (a giant philistine warrior) and killed him by hitting him in the head with a stone flung from a sling. many of the psalms are attributed to david
dwight d. eisenhower;as supreme commander of the allied expeditionary force he supervised the invasion of normandy and the defeat of nazi germany. 34th president of the united states (1890-1961)
stipendiary;(british) paid magistrate (appointed by the home secretary) dealing with police cases
calvinist;an adherent of the theological doctrines of john calvin
bartholomew roberts;a welsh pirate credited with having taken more than 400 ships (1682-1722)
quadruplet;one of four children born at the same time
joseph;(new testament) husband of mary and (in christian belief) the foster father of jesus
leech;a follower who hangs around in hope of gain or advantage
apollo;sun god. god of prophesy and poetry and music and healing. son of zeus and leto. twin brother of artemis
bhutanese;a native or inhabitant of bhutan
madrigalist;a singer of madrigals
craftsman;a skilled worker who practices some trade or handicraft
stockholder of record;the stockholder whose name is registered on the books of the corporation as owning the shares at a particular time
loiterer;someone who lingers aimlessly in or about a place
sociopath;someone with a sociopathic personality. a person with an antisocial personality disorder ('psychopath' was once widely used but has now been superseded by 'sociopath')
sergeant first class;a sergeant in the army above the rank of staff sergeant and below master sergeant
pappoose;an american indian infant
cardiologist;a specialist in cardiology. a specialist in the structure and function and disorders of the heart
gatecrasher;someone who gets in (to a party) without an invitation or without paying
general agent;someone authorized to transact every kind of business for the principal
warhorse;an experienced person. someone who has given long service
toller;a person who rings church bells (as for summoning the congregation)
parodist;mimics literary or musical style for comic effect
stigmatic;a person whose body is marked by religious stigmata (such as marks resembling the wounds of the crucified christ)
romanticist;someone who indulges in excessive sentimentality
flag officer;a senior naval officer above the rank of captain
hierarch;a senior clergyman
gas fitter;a workman who installs and repairs gas fixtures and appliances
grandmother;the mother of your father or mother
sledder;someone who rides a sled
deaf and dumb person;a deaf person who is unable to speak
domine;a clergyman. especially a settled minister or parson
peirce;(1839-1914) a pioneer of pragmatism
minx;a seductive woman who uses her sex appeal to exploit men
part owner;a person who owns something in common with others
investment advisor;someone who advises others how to invest their money
koasati;a member of the muskhogean people formerly living in n alabama. a member of the creek confederacy
schoolmaster;presiding officer of a school
flyweight;weighs no more than 112 pounds
plotter;a clerk who marks data on a chart
chiropodist;a specialist in care for the feet
corespondent;the co-defendant charged with adultery with the estranged spouse in a divorce proceeding
reviewer;a writer who reports and analyzes events of the day
travel agent;someone who sells or arranges trips or tours for customers
patriot;one who loves and defends his or her country
baldhead;a person whose head is bald
girl;a girl or young woman with whom a man is romantically involved. 'his girlfriend kicked him out'
poser;a person who poses for a photographer or painter or sculptor. 'the president didn't have time to be a model so the artist worked from photos'
vet;a doctor who practices veterinary medicine
bearer;a person who presents a note or bond for payment. 'marked payable to bearer'
chekov;russian dramatist (1860-1904)
guerilla;a member of an irregular armed force that fights a stronger force by sabotage and harassment
governor general;a governor of high rank
divorce lawyer;a lawyer specializing in actions for divorce or annulment
saul of tarsus;a christian missionary to the gentiles. author of several epistles in the new testament. even though paul was not present at the last supper he is considered an apostle
commandant;an officer in command of a military unit
text editor;an editor who prepares text for publication
bastard;the illegitimate offspring of unmarried parents
first lord of the treasury;the british cabinet minister responsible for economic strategy
ex gambler;a former gambler
producer;someone who finds financing for and supervises the making and presentation of a show (play or film or program or similar work)
puncher;a hired hand who tends cattle and performs other duties on horseback
fiend;one of the evil spirits of traditional jewish and christian belief
pullman porter;a railroad employee who assists passengers (especially on sleeping cars)
goldbrick;a soldier who performs his duties without proper care or effort
spokeswoman;a female spokesperson
athapaskan;a member of any of the north american indian groups speaking an athapaskan language and living in the subarctic regions of western canada and central alaska
tuatha de;(irish) race of gods or demigods. ruled ireland in the golden age
cricketer;an athlete who plays cricket
saint patrick;a patron saint of ireland. an english missionary to ireland in the 5th century
inca;a ruler of the inca empire (or a member of his family)
immunologist;a specialist in immunology
teammate;a fellow member of a team. 'it was his first start against his former teammates'
nurseling;an infant consider in relation to its nurse
self;a person considered as a unique individual. 'one's own self'
soundman;a technician in charge of amplifying sound or producing sound effects (as for a tv or radio broadcast)
neoclassicist;an advocate of neoclassicism
wax chandler;one who deals in wax candles
mick;ethnic slur. a person of irish descent
brahui;a member of a dravidian people living in pakistan
watchmaker;makes or repairs watches
draughtsman;a skilled worker who draws plans of buildings or machines
friar;a male religious of an order of mendicant preachers of the gospel
back judge;a football official
bolivar;(1783-1830) venezuelan statesman who led the revolt of south american colonies against spanish rule. founded bolivia in 1825
audile;one whose mental imagery is auditory rather than visual or motor
pappa;an informal term for a father. probably derived from baby talk
serviceman;someone who serves in the armed forces. 'two men stood sentry duty'
tswana;a member of a bantu people living chiefly in botswana and western south africa
litterateur;a writer of literary works
machinator;a member of a conspiracy
house decorator;a person who specializes in designing architectural interiors and their furnishings
prosecuting officer;a lawyer who conducts criminal prosecutions on behalf of the state
possessor;a person who owns something. 'they are searching for the owner of the car'. 'who is the owner of that friendly smile?'
field marshal;an officer holding the highest rank in the army
longshoreman;a laborer who loads and unloads vessels in a port
serjeant at arms;an officer (as of a legislature or court) who maintains order and executes commands
prosecutor;a lawyer who conducts criminal prosecutions on behalf of the state
gentile;a person who does not acknowledge your god
briber;someone who pays (or otherwise incites) you to commit a wrongful act
dish;a very attractive or seductive looking woman
substance abuser;someone who consumes drugs
francophile;an admirer of france and everything french
big shot;(informal) an important influential person
queer bird;someone regarded as eccentric or crazy
national leader;a man who is a respected leader in national or international affairs
ghostwriter;a writer who gives the credit of authorship to someone else
il duce;1883-1945
petrarca;an italian poet famous for love lyrics (1304-1374)
philhellinist;an admirer of greece and everything greek
holdout;a negotiator who hopes to gain concessions by refusing to come to terms. 'their star pitcher was a holdout for six weeks'
secretary of veterans affairs;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of veterans affairs. 'bush appointed edward j. derwinski as the first secretary of veterans affairs'
job;any long-suffering person who withstands affliction without despairing
asterope;(greek mythology) one of the 7 pleiades
pressman;someone whose occupation is printing
deponent;a person who testifies of gives a deposition
leonardo;1452-1519
anatomist;an expert in anatomy
tool;a person who is used to perform unpleasant or dishonest tasks for someone else
alter ego;a very close and trusted friend who seems almost a part of yourself
roberts;a welsh pirate credited with having taken more than 400 ships (1682-1722)
abettor;one who helps or encourages or incites another
narcotics agent;a lawman concerned with narcotics violations
klansman;a member of the ku klux klan
government minister;a person appointed to a high office in the government. 'minister of finance'
jung;1875-1961
yank;an american who lives in new england
bishop wulfila;a christian bishop who translated the bible from greek into gothic (311-382)
enchanter;a sorcerer or magician
secretary of the interior;the person who holds the secretaryship of the interior department. 'president taylor appointed thomas ewing as the first secretary of the interior'
fbi agent;a special law-enforcement agent of the federal bureau of investigation
maltster;a maker of malt
nabu;(babylonian) god of wisdom and agriculture and patron of scribes and schools
aeschylus;(525-456 bc) greek dramatist. the father of greek tragedy
bete noire;a detested person. 'he is an anathema to me'
ugandan;a native or inhabitant of uganda
chevalier de lamarck;french naturalist who proposed that evolution resulted from the inheritance of acquired characteristics (1744-1829)
nepalese;a native or inhabitant of nepal
caretaker;an official who performs the duties of an office temporarily. 'he acted as a caretaker until a new president could be elected'
daughter in law;the wife of your son
lifeguard;an attendant employed at a beach or pool to protect swimmers from accidents
mixed blood;a person whose ancestors belonged to two or more races
algonkian;a member of a north american indian people in the ottawa river valley of ontario and quebec
patrolman;a policeman who patrols a given region
role player;a theatrical performer
taxman;someone who collects taxes for the government
nonachiever;a student who does not attain the standards expected
paramedic;a person trained to assist medical professionals and to given emergency medical treatment
osage;a member of the siouan people formerly living in missouri in the valleys of the missouri and osage rivers. oil was found on osage lands early in the 20th century
plowman;a man who plows
convener;(british) the member of a group whose duty it is to convene meetings
spouse;a person's partner in marriage
macer;an official who carries a mace of office
frederick i;(1123-1190) holy roman emperor from 1152 to 1190. conceded supremacy to the pope. drowned leading the third crusade
dove;someone who prefers negotiations to armed conflict in the conduct of foreign relations
pushan;celestial shepherd god. conductor of souls of the dead
advocate;a person who pleads for a cause or idea
jingoist;an extreme bellicose nationalist
commander;a commissioned naval officer who ranks above a lieutenant commander and below a captain
model;a woman who wears clothes to display fashions. 'she was too fat to be a mannequin'
athena;(greek mythology) goddess of wisdom and useful arts and prudent warfare. guardian of athens. identified with roman minerva
whizz;someone who is very highly skilled
sponsor;someone who supports or champions something
secretary of labor;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of labor. 'the first labor secretary was william b. wilson who was appointed by president wilson'
auspex;(in ancient rome) a religious official who interpreted omens to guide public policy
vepsian;a member of a finnish people of russia
namby pamby;an insipid weakling who is foolishly sentimental
aditi;a hindu goddess who releases from sin or disease. mother of the adityas
face;(synecdoche) a part of a person is used to refer to a person. 'he looked out at a roomful of faces'. 'when he returned to work he met many new faces'
baseball player;an athlete who plays baseball
expender;someone who spends money
scrub nurse;a nurse who helps a surgeon prepare for surgery
cosmopolitan;a sophisticated person who has travelled in many countries
good shepherd;a prophet of the first century (circa 8 bc - 29 ad). to christians he was both god and man--the messiah sent to save the human race from the sin it inherited through the fall of man
economiser;a person who economizes and avoids waste
tamburlaine;mongolian ruler of samarkand who led his nomadic hordes to conquer an area from turkey to mongolia (1336-1405)
draft dodger;someone who is drafted and illegally refuses to serve
crook;someone who has committed (or been legally convicted of) a crime
president;the head administrative officer of a college or university
canary;someone acting as an informer or decoy for the police
agnate;one related on the father's side
ler;(irish) the sea personified. father of manannan. corresponds to welsh llyr
touch typist;a skilled typist who can type a document without looking at the keyboard
tough;someone who learned to fight in the streets rather than being formally trained in the sport of boxing
enthusiast;an ardent and enthusiastic supporter of some person or activity
crybaby;a person given to excessive complaints and crying
bookkeeper;someone who records the transactions of a business
girlfriend;a girl or young woman with whom a man is romantically involved. 'his girlfriend kicked him out'
ledgeman;a quarry worker who splits off blocks of stone
tv announcer;an announcer on television
bunny;a young waitress in a night club whose costume includes a rabbit-tail and ears
milord;a term of address for an english lord
sweetheart;a person loved by another person
raiser;someone concerned with the science or art or business of cultivating the soil
stableboy;someone employed in a stable to take care of the horses
shegetz;an offensive term for non-jewish young man. 'why does she like all those shkotzim?'
khepera;god of the morning sun. creator
roughneck;a cruel and brutal fellow
wisp;a small person. 'a mere wisp of a girl'
lysander;spartan commander who defeated the athenians in the final battle of the peloponnesian war (d. 395 bc)
internationalist;an advocate of internationalism
onanist;a person who practices masturbation
scrapper;someone who fights (or is fighting)
rat;someone who works (or provides workers) during a strike
woolgatherer;someone who indulges in idle or absent-minded daydreaming
gob;a man who serves as a sailor
chief executive officer;the corporate executive responsible for the operations of the firm. reports to a board of directors. may appoint other managers (including a president)
brother;a male person who is a fellow member (of a fraternity or religion of other group). 'none of his brothers would betray him'
eyeful;a strikingly beautiful woman. 'she was a statuesque redheaded eyeful'
gipsy;a member of a nomadic people originating in n india and now living on all continents
rat;one who reveals confidential information in return for money
mill hand;a worker in a mill or factory
dauphin;formerly, the eldest son of the king of france and direct heir to the throne
military attache;an attache who is a specialist in military matters
bicyclist;a person who rides a bicycle
stylite;an early christian ascetic who lived on top of high pillars
saint john;disciple of jesus. author of the 4th gospel
district attorney;an official prosecutor for a judicial district
new yorker;a resident of new york
chorus girl;a woman who dances in a chorus line
derelict;a person unable to support himself
grand turk;the ruler of a muslim country (especially of the former ottoman empire)
latona;wife or mistress of zeus and mother of apollo and artemis in ancient mythology. called latona in roman mythology
management consultant;adviser to business about efficient management practices
managing editor;the editor in charge of all editorial activities of a newspaper or magazine
first baseman;(baseball or softball) the person who plays first base
burgrave;a nobleman ruling a german castle and surrounding grounds by hereditary right
schemer;a planner who draws up a personal scheme of action
wonk;a student who studies excessively
light of love;a woman inconstant in love
crank;a bad-tempered person
policeman;a member of a police force. 'it was an accident, officer'
mechanical engineer;a person trained to design and construct machines
glassworker;someone who cuts flat glass to size
dealer;someone who purchases and maintains an inventory of goods to be sold
freewheeler;someone acting freely or even irresponsibly
manikin;a woman who wears clothes to display fashions. 'she was too fat to be a mannequin'
militiaman;a member of the militia. serves only during emergencies
athene;(greek mythology) goddess of wisdom and useful arts and prudent warfare. guardian of athens. identified with roman minerva
wesleyan;a follower of wesleyanism
brain;someone who has exceptional intellectual ability and originality
henry ford;1863-1947
mongol;a member of the nomadic peoples of mongolia
racketeer;some who commits crimes for profit (especially one who obtains money by fraud or extortion)
internationalist;a member of a socialist or communist international
shrinking violet;someone who shrinks from familiarity with others
crown prince;a male heir apparent to a throne
napea;greek mythology
clinton;42nd president of the united states (1946- )
dido;(roman mythology) a princess of tyre who was the founder and queen of carthage. virgil tells of he suicide when she was abandoned by aeneas
joint author;a writer who collaborates with others in writing something
grad student;a student who continues studies after graduation
salvor;someone who salvages
pilot;someone who is licensed to operate an aircraft in flight
homoeopath;a practitioner of homeopathy
canvasser;(british) someone who takes or counts votes
el libertador;(1783-1830) venezuelan statesman who led the revolt of south american colonies against spanish rule. founded bolivia in 1825
bey;the governor of a district or province in the ottoman empire
contractor;someone (a person or firm) who contracts to build things
megalomaniac;a pathological egotist
skulker;someone shirking their duty
oenologist;a specialist in wine making
truelove;a person loved by another person
friend;a member of the religious society of friends
godparent;a person who sponsors someone (the godchild) at baptism
dmitri ivanovich mendeleyev;russian chemist who devised the first periodic table of the chemical elements (1834-1907)
lip reader;someone who can understand spoken words by watching the movements of a speaker's lips
selfish person;a person who is unusually selfish
hand;a hired laborer on a farm or ranch. 'the hired hand fixed the railing'. 'a ranch hand'
sophist;someone whose reasoning is subtle and often specious
conversational partner;a person who takes part in a conversation
sea dog;a man who serves as a sailor
romp;a girl who behaves in a boyish manner
paleface;a derogatory term for a white person (said to have been used by north american indians)
hestia;(greek mythology) the goddess of the hearth and its fire in ancient mythology. identified with roman vesta
ofo;a member of the siouan people living in the yazoo river valley in mississippi
public executioner;an official who inflicts capital punishment in pursuit of a warrant
sirrah;formerly a contemptuous term of address to an inferior man or boy. often used in anger
deceased;someone who is no longer alive. 'i wonder what the dead person would have done'
obstructionist;someone who systematically obstructs some action that others want to take
clarinetist;a musician who plays the clarinet
belly dancer;a woman who performs a solo oriental dance using exaggerated abdominal movements
clockmaker;someone whose occupation is making or repairing clocks and watches
seconder;someone who endorses a motion or petition as a necessary preliminary to a discussion or vote
usher;someone employed to conduct others
carver;makes decorative wooden panels
madonna;the mother of jesus. christians refer to her as the virgin mary. she is especially honored by roman catholics
professional;an authority qualified to teach apprentices
rioter;someone who participates in a violent disturbance of the peace
pierce;14th president of the united states (1804-1869)
space writer;a writer paid by the area of the copy
glasscutter;someone who cuts flat glass to size
femme fatale;a woman who is considered to be dangerously seductive
beauty;a very attractive or seductive looking woman
grazier;a rancher who grazes cattle or sheep for market
justice of the peace;a local magistrate with limited powers
gambler;a person who wagers money on the outcome of games or sporting events
madame;a woman of refinement
politician;a leader engaged in civil administration
palmist;someone who predicts your future by the lines on your palms
authoress;a woman author
starter;a contestant who is in the game at the beginning
paterfamilias;the head of family or tribe
bushwhacker;a confederate guerrilla during the american civil war
female child;a youthful female person. 'the baby was a girl'. 'the girls were just learning to ride a tricycle'
duce;leader. 'mussolini was called il duce'
mrs. simpson;american divorcee whose marriage to edward viii created a constitutional crisis leading to his abdication
cipher;a person of no influence
quaker;a member of the religious society of friends
dissenter;a person who dissents from some established policy
punjabi;a member of the majority people of punjab in nw india
muskhogean;a member of any of the peoples formerly living in se us and speaking muskhogean languages
whiteface;a clown whose face is covered with white make-up
vesalius;a flemish surgeon who is considered the father of modern anatomy (1514-1564)
newtonian;a follower of isaac newton
dreamer;someone guided more by ideals than by practical considerations
reviewer;someone who reads manuscripts and judges their suitability for publication
snake in the grass;a deceitful or treacherous person
highway engineer;a civil engineer who specializes in the design and construction of roads and highways
goon;an awkward stupid person
sprayer;a worker who applies spray to a surface
warrior;someone engaged in or experienced in warfare
conventioneer;someone who attends a convention
offender;a person who transgresses moral or civil law
rear admiral;an admiral junior to a vice admiral
gunner;a serviceman in the artillery
security director;head of a private security force working for a business or industry
secretary of commerce;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of commerce. 'the first commerce secretary was william c. redfield who was appointed by wilson'
meatman;a retailer of meat
patient;a person who requires medical care. 'the number of emergency patients has grown rapidly'
baseball coach;a coach of baseball players
scribe;informal terms for journalists
pedlar;someone who travels about selling his wares
schlockmeister;(slang) a merchant who deals in shoddy or inferior merchandise
comte de saxe;a french marshall who distinguished himself in the war of the austrian succession
waitress;a woman waiter
bird watcher;a person who identifies and studies birds in their natural habitats
rene antoine ferchault de reaumur;french physicist who invented the alcohol thermometer (1683-1757)
babysitter;a person engaged to care for children when the parents are not home
demagog;an orator who appeals to the passions and prejudices of his audience
sergeant at arms;an officer (as of a legislature or court) who maintains order and executes commands
wodan;chief god. counterpart of norse odin and teutonic wotan
savior;a person who rescues you from harm or danger
anglo saxon;a person of anglo-saxon (especially british) descent whose native tongue is english and whose culture is strongly influenced by english culture as in 'wasp for 'white anglo-saxon protestant''. 'this anglo-saxon view of things'
major domo;the chief steward or butler of a great household
seneca;a member of the iroquoian people formerly living in new york state south of lake ontario
japanese;a native or inhabitant of japan
calligraphist;someone skilled in penmanship
money dealer;a person who receives, invests or pays out money
mongol tatar;a member of the mongolian people of central asia who invaded russia in the 13th century
judas iscariot;the apostle who betrayed jesus to his enemies for 30 pieces of silver
victualer;an innkeeper (especially british)
stravinsky;1882-1971
procurator;a person authorized to act for another
headmistress;a woman headmaster
angle;a member of a germanic people who conquered england and merged with the saxons and jutes to become anglo-saxons
sapper;a military engineer who does sapping (digging trenches or undermining fortifications)
cow man;a man who raises (or tends) cattle
glazer;someone who cuts flat glass to size
noncitizen;a person who comes from a foreign country. someone who does not owe allegiance to your country
gauri;a benevolent aspect of devi. 'the brilliant'
highflyer;a person of great ability and ambition
thane;a man ranking above an ordinary freeman and below a noble in anglo saxon england especially one who gave military serve in exchange for land
maker;a person who makes things
pussycat;a person who is regarded as easygoing and agreeable
ibsen;a norwegian author who wrote plays on social and political themes (1828-1906)
supervisor;one who supervises or has charge and direction of
long distance runner;someone who participates in long-distance races (especially in marathons)
deputy;a member of the lower chamber of a legislative assembly (such as in france)
stupid;a person who is not very bright: 'the economy, stupid!'
rhetorician;a person who delivers a speech or oration
crab;a quarrelsome grouch
missioner;someone sent on a mission--especially a religious or charitable mission to a foreign country
alumnus;a person who has received a degree from a school (high school or college or university)
consigner;the person who consigns merchandise
flying dutchman;the captain of a phantom ship that sails near the cape of good hope
valet;a manservant who acts as a personal attendant to his employer. 'jeeves was bertie wooster's man'
sylvanus;roman god of woods and fields and flocks. pan is the greek counterpart
villein;(medieval europe) a person who is bound to the land and owned by the feudal lord
stargazer;a physicist who studies astronomy
palsgrave;(medieval) the lord of a palatinate who exercised sovereign powers over his lands
flamen;a priest who served a particular deity in ancient rome
milkmaid;a woman who works in a dairy
ludwig van beethoven;(1770-1827) german composer
inquisitor;a questioner who is excessively harsh
porn merchant;someone who presents shows or sells writing or pictures that are sexually explicit in violation of the community mores
ecdysiast;a performer who provides erotic entertainment by undressing to music
besieger;an energetic petitioner
graecophile;an admirer of greece and everything greek
instigant;someone who deliberately foments trouble. 'she was the instigator of their quarrel'
zany;a stupid fool
center;(football) the person who plays center on the line of scrimmage. 'the center fumbled the handoff'
ashir;(assyrian) chief god of the assyrians. god of military prowess and empire. identified with babylonian anshar
tully;a roman statesman and orator remembered for his mastery of latin prose (106-43 bc)
chela;a hindu disciple of a swami
drug addict;a narcotics addict
mountain climber;someone who climbs mountains
ref;(sports) the chief official (as in boxing or american football) who is expected to ensure fair play
nahuatl;a member of any of various indian peoples of central mexico
selectwoman;an elected member of a board of officials who run new england towns
mary;the mother of jesus. christians refer to her as the virgin mary. she is especially honored by roman catholics
unknown soldier;an unidentified soldier whose body is honored as a memorial
campfire girl;a girl who is a member of campfire girls. for girls age 7-18
competitor;the contestant you hope to defeat. 'he had respect for his rivals'. 'he wanted to know what the competition was doing'
bacchus;(in ancient greece and rome) god of wine. equivalent of dionysus
emigree;someone who leaves one country to settle in another
gawk;an awkward stupid person
shareholder;someone who holds shares of stock in a corporation
magnate;a very wealthy or powerful businessman: 'an oil baron'
hans geiger;german physicist who developed the geiger counter (1882-1945)
ponca;a member of the siouan people of the missouri river valley in ne nebraska
speech therapist;a therapist who treats speech defects and disorders
contadino;an italian farmer
stunt pilot;a pilot who travels around the country giving exhibits of stunt flying and parachuting
john locke;1632-1704
hitter;a ballplayer who is batting
cocopah;a member of a north american indian people living around the mouth of the colorado river
bobby;an informal term for a british policeman
thomas the doubting apostle;the apostle who would not believe the resurrection of jesus until he saw jesus with his own eyes
slumberer;a person who is sleeping
moonshiner;someone who makes and sells illegal liquor
isolationist;an advocate of isolationism in international affairs
non resistant;a reformer who believes in passive resistance
nark;(british) an informer or spy working for the police
unusual person;a person who is unusual
friedrich engels;wrote the communist manifesto with marx in 1848 (1820-1895)
paralytic;a person suffering from paralysis
thread maker;someone who spins (who twists fibers into threads)
reader;a public lecturer at certain universities
eisenhower;as supreme commander of the allied expeditionary force he supervised the invasion of normandy and the defeat of nazi germany. 34th president of the united states (1890-1961)
designer;someone who designs clothing
garuda;supernatural half-man and half-bird vehicle or bearer of vishnu
kazak;a member of a muslim turkic people of w asia (especially in kazakstan)
learned person;someone who has been admitted to membership in a scholarly field
eater;someone who consumes food for nourishment
kidnapper;someone who unlawfully seizes and detains a victim (usually for ransom)
good samaritan;a person who voluntarily offers help or sympathy in times of trouble
decorator;a person who specializes in designing architectural interiors and their furnishings
natator;a person who travels through the water by swimming. 'he is not a good swimmer'
komi;a member of a finnish people living in the nw urals in russia
chadian;a native or inhabitant of chad
panini;indian grammarian whose grammatical rules for sanskrit are the first known example of descriptive linguistics (circa 400 bc)
cunctator;someone who postpones work (especially out of laziness or habitual carelessness)
figurer;an expert at calculation (or at operating calculating machines)
sodomite;someone who engages in anal copulation (especially a male who engages in anal copulation with another male)
hangover;an official who remains in office after his term
incurable;a person whose disease is incurable
schoolman;a scholar in one of the universities of the middle ages. versed in scholasticism
george i;(1660-1727) elector of hanover and the first hanoverian king of great britain and ireland from 1714 to 1727
minder;a woman who looks after babies in her own home while their parents are working
surgeon general;the head of the us public health service
francis of assisi;(1181-1226) italian monk who founded the franciscan order of friars
faker;a person who makes deceitful pretenses
brain surgeon;someone who does surgery on the nervous system (especially the brain)
trifler;one who behaves lightly or not seriously
steward;someone who manages property or other affairs for someone else
andrew jackson;7th president of the us. successfully defended new orleans from the british in 1815. (1767-1845)
native australian;a dark-skinned member of a race of people living in australia when europeans arrived
gospeller;a preacher of the christian gospel
speller;someone who spells words
refiner;one whose work is to refine a specific thing. 'he was a sugar refiner'
glutton;a person who is devoted to eating and drinking to excess
telltale;someone who gossips indiscreetly
hindoo;a native or inhabitant of hindustan or india
granddad;the father of your father or mother
dominus;a clergyman. especially a settled minister or parson
finance minister;the minister responsible for state finances
famous person;a widely known person. 'he was a baseball celebrity'
demetrius;son of antigonus cyclops and king of macedonia. he and his father were defeated at the battle of ipsus (337-283 bc)
dude;a man who is much concerned with his dress and appearance
giovanni jacopo casanova;(1725-1798) an italian adventurer who wrote vivid accounts of his sexual encounters
hermann maurice saxe;a french marshall who distinguished himself in the war of the austrian succession
parliamentarian;an expert in parliamentary rules and procedures
phonologist;a specialist in phonology
transportation secretary;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of transportation. 'johnson appointed alan s. boyd as the first transportation secretary'
lady;a woman of refinement
slut;a woman adulterer
old person;an elderly person
cinematographer;a photographer who operates a movie camera
potter;a craftsman who makes pottery
admirer;someone who admires. especially an admirer of a young woman. 'she had many admirers'
belorussian;a native or inhabitant of byelorussia
hinayanist;an adherent of hinayana buddhism
flower child;someone who rejects the established culture. advocates extreme liberalism in politics and lifestyle
coreligionist;someone having the same religion as another person
bag;an ugly or ill-tempered woman. 'he was romancing the old bag for her money'
alchemist;one who was versed in the practice of alchemy
listener;someone who listens attentively
vendor;someone who exchanges goods or services for money
dropout;someone who quits school before graduation
shoemaker;a person who makes or repairs shoes
tart;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
gem;a person who is a brilliant and precious as a piece of jewelry
sonneteer;a poet who writes sonnets
contributor;a writer whose work is published in a newspaper or magazine or as part of a book
sender;someone who transmits a message. 'return to sender'
wisconsinite;a resident of wisconsin
drudge;a laborer who is obliged to do menial work
weakling;a person who is physically weak
modern;a contemporary person
massachusetts;a member of the algonquian people who formerly lived around massachusetts bay
baby;(slang) sometimes used as a term of address for attractive young women
hoofer;a professional dancer
carthaginian;a native or inhabitant of ancient carthage
yardie;member of an international gang of jamaican criminals who sell drugs and violence. 'a much publicized raid on a yardie stronghold had first been simulated at riot city'
damgalnunna;(babylonian) earth goddess. consort of ea and mother of marduk
cristoforo colombo;1451-1506
skateboarder;someone who skates on a skateboard
unilateralist;an advocate of unilateralism
picket;a person employed to watch for something to happen
bootmaker;a maker of boots
mckinley;25th president of the united states. was assassinated by an anarchist (1843-1901)
small businessman;a businessman who runs a business employing less than 100 people
missing link;hypothetical organism formerly thought to be intermediate between apes and human beings
seller;someone who exchanges goods or services for money
father;a person who holds an important or distinguished position in some organization. 'the tennis fathers ruled in her favor'. 'the city fathers endorsed the proposal'
ludwig wittgenstein;1889-1951
raftman;someone who travels by raft
councilman;a man who is a council member
parricide;someone who kills his or her parent
tashmit;(babylonian) consort of nabu
gaea;(greek mythology) goddess of the earth and mother of cronus and the titans in ancient mythology
myrmidon;a follower who carries out orders without question
pompey the great;roman general and statesman who quarrelled with caesar and fled to egypt where he was murdered
george;christian martyr. patron saint of england. hero of the legend of saint george and the dragon in which he slew a dragon and saved a princess (?-303)
lumper;a laborer who loads and unloads vessels in a port
anomalist;someone who has a special interest in exceptional cases
scab;someone who works (or provides workers) during a strike
smoothie;someone with an assured and ingratiating manner
fingerprint expert;a specialist in identifying fingerprints
half sister;a sister who has only one parent in common with you
cognitive scientist;a student of cognitive processes
introvert;a person who tends to shrink from social contacts and to become preoccupied with their own thoughts
marshall;american jurist. as chief justice of the supreme court he established the principles of united states constitutional law (1755-1835)
mrs;a form of address for a married woman
nonconformist;someone who refuses to conform to established standards of conduct
first cousin;the child of your aunt or uncle
burgrave;the military governor of a german town in the 12th and 13th centuries
luddite;one of the 19th century english workman who destroyed labor-saving machinery that they thought would cause unemployment
simple;a person lacking intelligence or common sense
ingrian;a member of western finnish people formerly living in the baltic province where saint petersburg was built
disseminator;someone who spreads the news
margrave;the military governor of a frontier province in medieval germany
stone cutter;someone who cuts or carves stone
costermonger;a hawker of fruit and vegetables from a barrow
printer;someone whose occupation is printing
mimer;an actor who communicates entirely by gesture and facial expression
caterer;someone who provides food and service (as for a party)
b f skinner;1904-1990
commissioner;a member of a commission
ambulance chaser;a lawyer who incites accident victims to sue
bedouin;a member of the a nomadic tribe of arabs
receiver;a person who gets something
honoree;a recipient of honors in recognition of noteworthy accomplishments
parishioner;a member of a parish
croatian;a member of the slavic people living in croatia
old boy;a vivacious elderly man
lightweight;someone who is unimportant but cheeky and presumptuous
jacobin;a member of the radical movement that instituted the reign of terror during the french revolution
harrison;9th president of the united states. caught pneumonia during his inauguration and died shortly after (1773-1841)
carter;39th president of the united states (1924- )
hertha;the teutonic goddess of fertility. later identified with norse njord
frederick ii;(1712-1786) king of prussia from 1740 to 1786. brought prussia military prestige by winning the war of the austrian succession and the seven years' war
quack;an untrained person who pretends to be a physician and who dispenses medical advice
firebrand;someone who deliberately foments trouble. 'she was the instigator of their quarrel'
madam;a woman who runs a house of prostitution
top banana;the leading comedian in a burlesque show
computer programmer;a person who designs and writes and tests computer programs
sadist;someone who obtains pleasure from inflicting pain or others
homebuilder;someone who builds houses as a business
world beater;a competitor who holds a preeminent position
detective;an investigator engaged or employed in obtaining information not easily available to the public
cheater;someone who leads you to believe something that is not true
regius professor;holder of a british professorship created by a royal patron
waggoner;the driver of a wagon
line officer;a commissioned officer with combat units (not a staff officer or a supply officer)
stage technician;an employee of a theater who performs work involved in putting on a theatrical production
whoremonger;a prostitute's customer
south american;a native or inhabitant of south america
backbencher;a member of the house of commons of great britain who is not a party leader
strikebreaker;someone who works (or provides workers) during a strike
male;a person who belongs to the sex that cannot have babies
hellhound;a very evil man
greaser;ethnic slur. offensive terms for a person of mexican descent
monroe;5th president of the united states. author of the 'monroe doctrine' (1758-1831)
club member;someone who is a member of a club
painter;a worker who is employed to cover objects with paint
first sacker;(baseball or softball) the person who plays first base
steelworker;a worker engaged in amking steel
israeli;a native or inhabitant of israel
supplicant;one praying humbly for something: 'a suppliant for her favors'
fortune hunter;a person who seeks wealth through marriage
aide;someone who acts as assistant
creature;a person who is used to perform unpleasant or dishonest tasks for someone else
socialist;a political advocate of socialism
swain;a man who is the lover of a girl or young woman. 'if i'd known he was her boyfriend i wouldn't have asked'
aeolus;god of the winds in ancient mythology
robert frost;us poet famous for his lyrical poems on country life in new england (1874-1963)
utug;(sumerian) sun god. counterpart of akkadian shamash
automobile mechanic;someone whose occupation is repairing and maintaining automobiles
grandaunt;an aunt of your father or mother
blood relation;one related by blood or origin. especially on sharing an ancestor with another
antinomian;a follower of the doctrine of antinomianism
ecclesiastic;a clergyman or other person in religious orders
agent;a businessman who buys or sells for another in exchange for a commission
wisenheimer;an upstart who makes conceited, sardonic, insolent comments
shop steward;a union member who is elected to represent fellow workers in negotiating with management
desk sergeant;the police sergeant on duty in a police station
receiver;a football player who catches (or is supposed to catch) a forward pass
nurse s aide;someone who assists a nurse in tasks that require little formal training
hero;a man distinguished by exceptional courage and nobility and strength. 'raf pilots were the heroes of the battle of britain'
centurion;(in ancient rome) the leader of 100 soldiers
god almighty;the christian god
infant;a very young child (birth to 1 year) who has not yet begun to walk or talk. 'isn't she too young to have a baby?'
amerindian;any member of the peoples living in north or south america before the europeans arrived
tashmitum;(babylonian) consort of nabu
garfield;20th president of the united states. assassinated by a frustrated office-seeker (1831-1881)
bon vivant;a person devoted to refined sensuous enjoyment (especially good food and drink)
cromwell;1599-1658
wesley;founder of methodism (1703-1791)
regent;members of a governing board
siamese twin;one of a pair of identical twins born with their bodies joined at some point
father christmas;the legendary patron saint of children
immortal;any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force
toreador;someone who fights bulls
city manager;the head of a city government
frederick the great;(1712-1786) king of prussia from 1740 to 1786. brought prussia military prestige by winning the war of the austrian succession and the seven years' war
sloven;a coarse obnoxious person
oliver cromwell;1599-1658
volunteer;a person who freely enlist for military service
instructress;a woman instructor
veterinary surgeon;a doctor who practices veterinary medicine
irredentist;an advocate of irredentism
seleucus i;macedonian general who accompanied alexander the great into asia. founded a line of kings who reigned in asia minor until 65 bc (358-281 bc)
newspaper columnist;a columnist who writes for newspapers
vindicator;a person who argues to defend or justify some policy or institution. 'an apologist for capital punishment'
captain;an officer who is licensed to command a merchant ship
campaigner;a politician who is running for public office
sir;term of address for a man
so and so;a person who is deemed to be despicable or contemptible. 'only a rotter would do that'. 'kill the rat'. 'throw the bum out'. 'you cowardly little pukes!'
gallant;a man who attends or escorts a woman
staffer;an employee who is a member of a staff of workers
lord privy seal;the senior cabinet minister in the british cabinet who has no official duties
primus;the presiding bishop of the episcopal church of scotland
kama;god of love and erotic desire. opposite of mara
handel;(1685-1759) a prolific german composer noted for his oratorios
temporary worker;a worker especially in an office hired on a temporary basis
women s liberationist;a supporter of feminism
egoist;a conceited and self-centered person
queen of the may;the girl chosen queen of a may day festival
locator;a person who fixes the boundaries of land claims
fornicatress;a woman adulterer
james a. garfield;20th president of the united states. assassinated by a frustrated office-seeker (1831-1881)
mastermind;someone who creates new things
wolf;a man who is aggressive in making amorous advances to women
helper;a person who contributes to the fulfillment of a need or furtherance of an effort or purpose. 'my invaluable assistant'. 'they hired additional help to finish the work'
arianrod;(welsh) goddess famous for her beauty. mother of dylan
disputant;a person who disputes. who is good at or enjoys controversy
shoeblack;a person who polishes shoes and boots
penologist;a person who studies the theory and practice of prison management
leo tolstoy;a russian author remembered for two novels: 'war and peace' and 'anna karenina' (1828-1910)
electrical engineer;a person trained in practical applications of the theory of electricity
investigator;someone who investigates
felo de se;a person who kills himself intentionally
steersman;the person who steers a ship
barytone;a male singer
elijah;a hebrew prophet in the old testament who opposed the worship of idols. he was persecuted for rebuking ahab and jezebel (king and queen of israel). he was taken up to heaven in a chariot of fire
answerer;someone who responds
mormon;the ancient prophet whose writings were revealed to joseph smith who founded the mormon church
rajah;a hindu prince or king in india
claimant;asserts a right or title
armor bearer;a squire carrying the armor of a knight
revolutionist;a radical supporter of political or social revolution
complainer;a person given to excessive complaints and crying
scavenger;someone who collects things that have been discarded by others
grad;a person who has received a degree from a school (high school or college or university)
siamese;a native or inhabitant of thailand
universal donor;a person whose type o blood may be safely transfused into persons with other blood types
eos;the winged goddess of the dawn in ancient mythology. daughter of hyperion. identified with roman aurora
lockman;a worker in charge of a lock (on a canal)
slinger;a person who uses a sling to throw something
godhead;the christian god
thomas huxley;1825-1895
commissar;an official of the communist party who was assigned to teach party principles to a military unit
armand jean du plessis;(1585-1642) french prelate and statesman. principal minister to louis xiii
fraud;a person who makes deceitful pretenses
deckhand;a member of a ship's crew who performs manual labor
surrogate mother;a woman who bears a child for a couple where the wife is unable to do so. 'a surrogate mother is artificially inseminated with the father's semen and carries the fetus to term'
mannikin;a woman who wears clothes to display fashions. 'she was too fat to be a mannequin'
grownup;a fully developed person from maturity onward
milksop;a timid man or boy considered childish or unassertive
absolutist;one who advocates absolutism
house guest;a guest entertained in your house
henry vi;(1421-1471) son of henry v who as an infant succeeded his father and was king of england from 1422 to 1461. he was taken prisoner in 1460 and edward iv was proclaimed king. he was rescued and regained the throne in 1470 but was recaptured and murdered in the tower of london
morrigu;(irish) war goddess
lieutenant;an officer in a police force
furrier;someone whose occupation is making or repairing fur garments
shop mechanic;a craftsman skilled in operating machine tools
endorser;someone who expresses strong approval
agricultural labourer;a person who tills the soil for a living
separatist;an advocate of secession or separation from a larger group (such as an established church or a national union)
deportee;expelled from home or country by authority
outdoor man;someone who enjoys outdoor activities
counterrevolutionist;a revolutionary whose aim is to reverse the changes introduced by an earlier revolution
archivist;a person in charge of collecting and cataloguing archives
reservist;a member of a military reserve
lazar;a person afflicted with leprosy
emperor;the male ruler of an empire
beginner;a person who founds or establishes some institution. 'george washington is the father of his country'
signorina;an italian courtesy title for an unmarried woman. equivalent to miss with used before a name
pole vaulter;an athlete who jumps over a high crossbar with the aid of a long pole
baggageman;an attendant who takes care of baggage
herodotus;the ancient greek known as the father of history. his accounts of the wars between the greeks and persians are the first known examples of historical writing (425-485 bc)
sculler;someone who sculls (moves a long oar pivoted on the back of the boat to propel the boat forward)
rifleman;a soldier whose weapon is a rifle
child;a human offspring (son or daughter) of any age. 'they had three children'. 'they were able to send their kids to college'
oil geologist;a specialist in petroleum geology
swinger;someone who swings sports implements
english person;a native or inhabitant of england
catherine the great;1729-1796
bull;an investor with an optimistic market outlook
political detainee;some held in custody
chain smoker;a heavy smoker (usually of cigarettes) who lights one off of another
sheik;a man who is much concerned with his dress and appearance
angel;person of exceptional holiness
gadaba;a member of an agricultural people in southeastern india
philologue;a humanist specializing in classical scholarship
humanist;a classical scholar or student of the liberal arts
giovanni da verrazzano;florentine explorer of the eastern coast of north america (circa 1485-1528)
coachbuilder;a craftsman who makes the bodies of motor vehicles
co;one who refuses to serve in the armed forces on grounds of conscience
nutritionist;a specialist in the study of nutrition
queen consort;the wife of a reigning king
vermonter;a resident of vermont
fanatic;a person motivated by irrational enthusiasm (as for a cause)
zephyr;(classical mythology) the greek god of the west wind
encroacher;someone who enters by force in order to conquer
maricopa;a member of a north american indian people of the gila river valley in arizona
featherweight;weighs 126-139 pounds
second sacker;(baseball or softball) the person who plays second base
simon bolivar;(1783-1830) venezuelan statesman who led the revolt of south american colonies against spanish rule. founded bolivia in 1825
molech;god of the ammonites and phoenicians to whom parents sacrificed their children
verger;a church officer who takes care of the interior of the building and acts as an attendant during ceremonies
astrologist;someone who predicts the future by the positions of the planets and sun and moon
moneyman;a person skilled in large scale financial transactions
window trimmer;someone who decorates shop windows
mvp;the player judged to be the most important to the sport
baby;the youngest member of a group (not necessarily young). 'the baby of the family'. 'the baby of the supreme court'
lecturer;a public lecturer at certain universities
grenade thrower;an infantryman equipped with grenades
camp follower;a follower who is not a member of an ingroup
islander;an inhabitant of an island
waster;dissipates resources self-indulgently
romanticist;an artist of the romantic period or someone influenced by romanticism
greybeard;a man who is old
escape expert;someone who is expert in the art of escaping
telephoner;the person initiating a telephone call
flak catcher;a slick spokesperson who can turn any criticism to the advantage of their employer
frederic francois chopin;(1810-1849) composer and pianist
filer;a party who files a notice with a law court
bligh;(1754-1817) british admiral. was captain of the h.m.s. bounty when the crew mutinied in 1789
eye of ra;a lion-headed goddess. typifies life-destroying power of the sun
st. francis;(1181-1226) italian monk who founded the franciscan order of friars
naturalist;a biologist knowledgeable about natural history (especially botany and zoology)
rahu;a demon who swallows the sun causing eclipses
suckling;an infant consider in relation to its nurse
piccaninny;(offensive) a black child
toughie;an aggressive young criminal
deputy;a person appointed to represent or act on behalf of others
seleucus i nicator;macedonian general who accompanied alexander the great into asia. founded a line of kings who reigned in asia minor until 65 bc (358-281 bc)
hockey coach;a coach of hockey players
izanami;sister and consort of izanami. mother of the islands and gods of japan
au pair girl;a foreign girl serving as an au pair
mug;a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
anachronism;a person who seems to be displaced in time. who belongs to another age
dwarf;a legendary creature resembling a tiny old man. lives in the depths of the earth and guards buried treasure
glaswegian;an inhabitant of glasgow
ump;an official at a baseball game
kassite;a member of an ancient people who ruled babylonia between 1600 and 1200 bc
disreputable person;someone lacking public esteem
ballad maker;a composer of words or music for popular songs
nereid;(greek mythology) any of the 50 sea nymphs who were daughters of the sea god nereus
meanie;a person of mean disposition
treasonist;someone who betrays his country by committing treason
hireling;a person who works only for money
yodeller;a singer who changes register rapidly (popular is swiss folk songs)
backwoodsman;someone who lives on the frontier
mobster;a criminal who is a member of gang
count lev nikolayevitch tolstoy;a russian author remembered for two novels: 'war and peace' and 'anna karenina' (1828-1910)
humorist;acts speaks or writes in an amusing way
study;someone who memorizes quickly and easily (as the lines for a part in a play). 'he is a quick study'
baggage;a worthless or immoral woman
tertigravida;a woman who is pregnant for the third time
solicitor;a british lawyer who gives legal advice and prepares legal documents
poisoner;someone who kills with poison
doubting thomas;the apostle who would not believe the resurrection of jesus until he saw jesus with his own eyes
boehme;(1575-1624) german mystic and theosophist who founded modern theosophy. influenced george fox
flower girl;a young girl who carries flowers in a (wedding) procession
regent;someone who rules during the absence or incapacity or minority of the country's monarch
pachuco;a mexican-american teenager who belongs to a neighborhood gang and who dresses in showy clothes
everyman;the ordinary person
giovanni di bernardone;(1181-1226) italian monk who founded the franciscan order of friars
giloacchino antonio rossini;(1792-1868) italian composer remembered for his operas
know all;(informal) someone who thinks he knows everything and refuses to accept advice or information from others
quietist;a religious mystic who follows quietism
vestryman;a man who is a member of a church vestry
candlemaker;a person who makes or sells candles
flier;someone who travels by air
business executive;an executive in a business corporation
pill pusher;a health professional trained in the art of preparing and dispensing drugs
butcher;a person who slaughters or dresses meat for market
joseph lister;1827-1912
cosmographer;a scientist knowledgeable about cosmography
anecdotist;a person skilled in telling anecdotes
parrot;a copycat who does not understand the words or acts being imitated
satan;(judeo-christian religion) chief spirit of evil and adversary of god. tempter of mankind. master of hell
underwater diver;someone who works underwater
drawer;an artist skilled at drawing
conversationalist;someone skilled at conversation
nuncio;(roman catholic) a diplomatic representative of the pope having ambassadorial status
judge;a public official authorized to decide questions bought before a court of justice
eclectic;someone who selects according to the eclectic method
untouchable;belongs to lowest class in india
specter;an unusual appearing ghostly figure. 'we were unprepared for the apparition that confronted us'
hippocrates;(circa 460-377 bc) medical practitioner who is regarded as the father of medicine. author of the hippocratic oath
plant;an actor situated in the audience whose acting is rehearsed but seems spontaneous to the audience
vandal;a member of the germanic people who overran gaul and spain and n africa and sacked rome in 455
duc de richelieu;(1585-1642) french prelate and statesman. principal minister to louis xiii
fireman;a pitcher who does not start the game
mocker;someone who mocks or treats something with derision
clothier;a merchant who sells men's clothing
alabaman;a resident of alabama
apache;a parisian gangster
trainer;one who trains other persons or animals
vet;a person who has served in the armed forces
halfback;(football) the person who plays halfback
julius caesar;conqueror of gaul and master of italy (100-44 bc)
nephew;a son of your brother or sister
prizefighter;a professional boxer
james garfield;20th president of the united states. assassinated by a frustrated office-seeker (1831-1881)
platonist;an advocate of platonism
chang kuo;one of the 8 immortals of taoism
right fielder;the person who plays right field
chipewyan;a member of the athapaskan people living in western canada between great slave lake and hudson bay
refinisher;a skilled worker who is employed to restore or refinish antique furniture
nonmember;a person who is not a member
ruiner;a person who destroys. 'a destroyer of the environment'
academician;someone elected to honorary membership in an academy
charioteer;the driver of a chariot
prussian;a german inhabitant of prussia
bad guy;any person who is not on your side
minister;a person appointed to a high office in the government. 'minister of finance'
muffin man;(british) formerly an itinerant peddler of muffins
ayah;an indian nursemaid who looks after children
light o  love;a woman inconstant in love
operator;a speculator who trades aggressively on stock or commodity markets
teuton;someone (especially a german) who speaks a germanic language
pluto;(classical mythology) the god of the underworld in ancient mythology. brother of zeus and husband of persephone
alcaeus;greek lyric poet of lesbos. reputed inventor of alcaic verse (611-580 bc)
duenna;(spain. portugal. etc) a woman chaperon
chang kuo lao;one of the 8 immortals of taoism
wizard;one who practices magic or sorcery
pen friend;a person you come to know by by frequent friendly correspondence
codefendant;a defendant who has been joined together with one or more other defendants in a single action
safecracker;a thief who breaks open safes to steal valuable contents
recoverer;someone who saves something from danger or violence
emancipator;someone who frees others from bondage. 'lincoln is known as the great emancipator'
devil;a rowdy or mischievous person (usually a young man). 'he chased the young hellions out of his yard'
hymen;god of marriage in ancient greek mythology
quick study;someone able to acquire new knowledge and skills rapidly and easily
lie abed;a person who stays in bed until a relatively late hour
ge;(greek mythology) goddess of the earth and mother of cronus and the titans in ancient mythology
wallah;(india) usually in combination: person in charge of or employed at a particular thing: 'a kitchen wallah'. 'the book wallah'
kneeler;a person in a kneeling position
saint andrew;disciple of jesus. brother of peter. patron saint of scotland
talent agent;an agent who represents performers
ball of fire;someone whose career progresses rapidly
mortal;"a human being. 'there was too much for one person to do'"
media consultant;someone who advises about the use of communication media
drunkard;a chronic drinker
betrayer;a person who says one thing and does another
alexander graham bell;(1847-1922) american inventor of the telephone
pen pal;a person you come to know by by frequent friendly correspondence
zu;(sumerian) evil storm god represented as a black bird
cox;the helmsman of a ship's boat or a racing crew
plant scientist;a biologist specializing in the study of plants
jacob;(old testament) son of isaac. brother of esau. father of the twelve patriarchs of israel. jacob wrestled with god and forced god to bless him, so god gave jacob the new name of israel (meaning 'one who has been strong against god')
jahvey;a name for the old testament god as transliterated from the hebrew yhvh
elder statesman;any influential person whose advice is highly respected
shakespeare;1564-1616
exile;voluntarily absent from home or country
carl friedrich gauss;1777-1855
tobacco user;a person who smokes tobacco
warehouseman;manages or works in a warehouse
boer;a white native of cape province who is a descendant of dutch settlers and who speaks afrikaans
sheik;the leader of an arab village or family
deist;a person who believes that god created the universe and then abandoned it
smith;someone who works at something specified
tungus;a member of the tungus speaking people of mongolian race who are a nomadic people widely spread over e siberia. related to the manchu
santee sioux;a member of the eastern branch of the sioux
ulfila;a christian bishop who translated the bible from greek into gothic (311-382)
decorator;someone who decorates
left hander;a baseball pitcher who throws the ball with the left hand
creditor;a lender to whom money is owed
opposition;a contestant that you are matched against
genealogist;an expert in genealogy
monster;someone who is abnormally large
nanticoke;a member of the algonquian people formerly of maryland and e delaware
endorser;a person who transfers his ownership interest in something by signing a check or negotiable security
magistrate;a public official authorized to decide questions bought before a court of justice
sleepwalker;someone who walks about in their sleep
irreligionist;someone who thinks that nothing exists but physical matter
adulterer;someone who commits adultery
constituent;a member of a constituency. a citizen who is represented in a government by officials for whom he or she votes. 'needs continued support by constituents to be re-elected'
cooperator;an associate who works with others toward a common goal
abstractionist;a painter of abstract pictures
altaic;any member of the peoples speaking a language in the altaic language group
cigar smoker;a smoker of cigars
fugitive;someone who is sought by law officers. someone trying to elude justice
wooer;a man who courts a woman
sad sack;someone who makes mistakes because of incompetence
rumormonger;a person given to gossiping
chatterbox;a very talkative person
state treasurer;the treasurer for a state government
ashtoreth;an ancient semitic fertility goddess. identified with phoenician astarte and babylonian ishtar
jenghis khan;mongol conqueror (died in 1227)
chinese;a native or inhabitant of communist china or of nationalist china
loner;a person who avoids the company of others
lounge lizard;a man who idles about in the lounges of hotels and bars in search of women who would support him
apiarist;a farmer who keeps bees for their honey
conjuror;someone who performs magic tricks to amuse an audience
peter pan;a boyish or immature man. after the boy in barrie's play who never grows up
whoremaster;a pimp who procures whores
reveler;one who shares in a noisy festival
nursemaid;a woman who is the custodian of children
fantasist;a creator of fantasies
bagpiper;someone who plays the bagpipe
footslogger;fights on foot with small arms
darling;a special loved one
arthur conan doyle;(1859-1930) english author who created sherlock holmes
duellist;a person who fights duels
patronne;(italian) the proprietor of an inn
scolder;someone (especially a woman) who annoys people by constantly finding fault
magna mater;great nature goddess of ancient phrygia in asia minor. counterpart of greek rhea and roman ops
dad;an informal term for a father. probably derived from baby talk
bank guard;a security guard at a bank
head shrinker;a physician who specializes in psychiatry
terminator;someone who exterminates. someone whose occupation is the extermination of troublesome rodents and insects
herb doctor;a therapist who heals by the use of herbs
homosexual;someone who practices homosexuality. having a sexual attraction to persons of the same sex
hyperion;father of helios and selene and eos in ancient mythology
fence;(informal) a dealer in stolen property
unfortunate;a person who suffers misfortune
riffian;a berber living in northern morocco
upholsterer;a craftsman who upholsters furniture
cultist;a member of a cult
landgrave;a count who had jurisdiction over a large territory in medieval germany
taxpayer;someone who pays taxes
fry;a young person of either sex (between birth and puberty). 'she writes books for children'. 'they're just kids'. 'tiddler' is a british term for youngsters'
yahve;a name for the old testament god as transliterated from the hebrew yhvh
spindlelegs;a thin person with long thin legs
busy bee;an alert and energetic person
tympanist;a person who plays the kettledrums
franklin pierce;14th president of the united states (1804-1869)
erwin rommel;german field marshal noted for brilliant generalship in north africa during world war ii (1891-1944)
czechoslovakian;a native or inhabitant of czechoslovakia
josue;moses' successor who led the israelites into the promised land. best remembered for his destruction of jericho
ahab;(9th century bc) according to the old testament he was a pagan king of israel and husband of jezebel
mississippian;a resident of mississippi
policy maker;someone who sets the plan pursued by a government or business etc.. 'policy makers often make the right decision for the wrong reason'
dirt ball;has a nasty or unethical character undeserving of respect
fish;a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
kashmiri;a member of the people of kashmir
hermann ludwig ferdinand von helmholtz;1821-1894
viking;any of the scandinavian people who raided the coasts of europe from the 8th to the 11th centuries
spoiler;a candidate with no chance of winning but who may draw enough votes to prevent one of the leading candidates from winning
astronomer;a physicist who studies astronomy
convict;a person serving a prison sentence
horse doctor;a veterinarian who treats horses
victor marie hugo;(1802-1885) leader of the romantic movement in france
west sider;a resident of the west side of manhattan in new york city
semiotician;a specialist in the study of linguistic meaning
analyst;someone who is skilled at analyzing
cognate;one related by blood or origin. especially on sharing an ancestor with another
baron verulam;1561-1626
rebel;(informal) 'johnny' was applied as a nickname for confederate soldiers by the federal soldiers in the american civil war. 'grayback' derived from their gray confederate uniforms
haemophiliac;someone who has hemophilia and is subject to uncontrollable bleeding
statesman;a man who is a respected leader in national or international affairs
armstrong;the first man to set foot on the moon (july 20, 1969)
ronald wilson reagan;40th president of the united states (1911- )
moviegoer;someone who goes to see movies
khalif;the civil and religious leader of a muslim state. a successor of muhammad
married person;a person's partner in marriage
schoolboy;a boy attending school
james buchanan;15th president of the united states (1791-1868)
junior middleweight;weighs no more than 154 pounds
probationer;a nurse in training who is undergoing a trial period
prentice;works for an expert to learn a trade
geek;a person with an unusual or odd personality
canon;a priest who is a member of a cathedral chapter
danseuse;a female ballet dancer
washerman;operates industrial washing machine
ambassador;an informal representative. 'an ambassador of good will'
antique;an elderly man
vigilante;member of a vigilance committee
jean racine;1639-1699
negotiant;someone who negotiates (confers with others in order to reach an agreement)
theologist;someone who is learned in theology
pinhead;an ignorant or foolish person
cousin;the child of your aunt or uncle
scene painter;an artist specializing in scenic subjects
pettifogger;a person (especially a lawyer or politician) who uses unscrupulous or unethical methods
freshman;a first-year undergraduate
import;a person (such as an actor or musician or celebrity) brought from a foreign country
parjanya;god of rain. sometimes identified with indra
archer;a person who is expert in the use of a bow and arrow
forgetful person;a flighty and disorganized person
juggernaut;an avatar of vishnu
pater;an informal term for a father. probably derived from baby talk
bell;(1847-1922) american inventor of the telephone
slave driver;a supervisor of slaves at work
gentlewoman;a woman of refinement
antigonus;a general of alexander the great and king of macedonia. lost one eye. killed in a battle at ipsus (382-301 bc)
defender;a person who cares for persons or property
grandparent;a parent of your father or mother
scandalmonger;a person who spreads malicious gossip
master;an officer who is licensed to command a merchant ship
old boy;a male ex-pupil of a school
babe;a very young child (birth to 1 year) who has not yet begun to walk or talk. 'isn't she too young to have a baby?'
heavyweight;a person of exceptional importance and reputation
scientist;a person with advanced knowledge of one of more sciences
city slicker;a city dweller with sophisticated manners
norseman;a native or inhabitant of norway
concubine;a woman who cohabits with an important man
lance corporal;an enlisted man in the marine corps ranking above a private first class and below a corporal
claudius ptolemaeus;(2nd century ad) proposed a geocentric system of astronomy that was undisputed until copernicus
schmuck;someone unpleasantly strange or eccentric
fellow worker;an associate you work with
hyperope;a person with hyperopia. a farsighted person
horologist;makes or repairs watches
thai;a native or inhabitant of thailand
partner;an associate who works with others toward a common goal
dandy;a man who is much concerned with his dress and appearance
breeder;a person who breeds animals
conditioner;a trainer of athletes
by blow;the illegitimate offspring of unmarried parents
tail;a detective employed to follow someone and report their movements
patrilineal sib;one related on the father's side
classicist;a student of ancient greek and latin
nutcase;a whimsically eccentric person
dancer;a performer who dances
cuban;a native or inhabitant of cuba
housebreaker;a burglar who unlawfully breaks into and enters another person's house
treasurer;an officer charged with receiving and disbursing funds
godmother;any woman who serves as a sponsor for a child at baptism
mixologist;an employee who mixes and serves alcoholic drinks at a bar
pandar;someone who procures customers for whores (in england they call a pimp a ponce)
upstart;an arrogant or presumptuous person
feminist;a supporter of feminism
afghanistani;a native or inhabitant of afghanistan
sheepman;a man who raises (or tends) sheep
anglican catholic;a member of the anglican church who emphasizes its catholic character
sabra;a native-born israeli
folk singer;a singer of folk songs
sea lawyer;an argumentative and contentious seaman
fedor dostoevsky;russian novelist (1821-1881)
aruru;(akkadian) mother and earth goddess in gilgamish epic. identified with sumerian ki and ninkhursag (mama. nintu)
beau;a man who is much concerned with his dress and appearance
adult male;an adult male person (as opposed to a woman). 'there were two women and six men on the bus'
six footer;a person who is at least six feet tall
iapetus;(greek mythology) the titan who was father of atlas and epimetheus and prometheus in ancient mythology
gallows bird;a person who deserves to be hanged
georg wilhelm friedrich hegel;1770-1831
malthusian;a believer in malthusian theory
damon and pythias;(greek mythology) according to a greek legend: when pythias was sentenced to be executed damon took his place to allow pythias to get his affairs in order. when pythias returned in time to save damon the king was so impressed that he let them both live
baal merodach;(babylonian) the chief babylonian god. his consort was sarpanitu
papoose;an american indian infant
the fates;a group of 3 goddesses of destiny
glassmaker;some who makes glass
yakut;a member of a turkic people of ne siberia (mainly in the lena river basin)
squatter;someone who settles lawfully on government land with the intent to acquire title to to it
horologer;makes or repairs watches
graverobber;someone who takes bodies from graves and sells them for anatomical dissection
andreas vesalius;a flemish surgeon who is considered the father of modern anatomy (1514-1564)
investment adviser;someone who advises others how to invest their money
press agent;someone employed to arrange publicity (for a firm or a public figure)
riemann;pioneer of non-euclidean geometry (1826-1866)
thoreau;1817-1862
scalawag;a deceitful and unreliable scoundrel
artist s model;a person who poses for a painter or sculptor
infiltrator;someone who takes up a position surreptitiously for the purpose of espionage
hustler;a prostitute who attracts customers by walking the streets
angler;a fisherman who uses a hook and line
antum;(babylonian) consort of anu
seneschal;the chief steward or butler of a great household
dustman;someone employed to collect and dispose of refuse
wolfgang amadeus mozart;1756-1791
sharpie;an alert and energetic person
twit;someone who is regarded as contemptible
sidekick;a close friend who accompanies his buddies in their activities
caesar;conqueror of gaul and master of italy (100-44 bc)
white man;a man who is white
steeplejack;someone who builds or maintains very tall structures
neopolitan;a resident of naples
fermat;french mathematician who founded number theory. contributed (with pascal) to the theory of probability (1601-1665)
ravisher;someone who assaults others sexually
landholder;a holder or proprietor of land
oregonian;a resident of oregon
holy spirit;the third person in the trinity. jesus promised the apostles that he would send the holy spirit after his crucifixion and resurrection. it came on pentecost
sexton;an officer of the church who is in charge of sacred objects
presence;an invisible spiritual being felt to be nearby
politico;a person active in party politics
ex president;a former president
divorcee;a divorced woman or a woman who is separated from her husband
cutthroat;someone who murders by cutting the victim's throat
montserratian;a native or inhabitant of montserrat
simon de montfort;(1208-1265) an english nobleman who led the baronial rebellion against henry iii
disk jockey;a person who announces and plays popular recorded music
homo heidelbergensis;a type of primitive man who lived in europe
retired person;someone who has retired from active working
paederast;a man who has sex with a boy
vizier;a high official in a moslem government (especially in the ottoman empire)
turnkey;someone who guards prisoners
girru;(babylonian) god of fire. often invoked in incantations against sorcery
color bearer;the soldier who carries the standard of the unit in military parades or in battle
omaha;a member of the siouan people formerly living in the missouri river valley in ne nebraska
jane seymour;(1509-1537) the third wife of henry viii and mother of edward vi
garrotter;someone who kills by strangling
executor;a person appointed by a testator to carry out the terms of the will
primate;a senior clergyman
fisherman;someone whose occupation is catching fish
korean;a native or inhabitant of korea who speaks the korean language
nonattender;someone who shirks duty
calvin coolidge;elected vice president and succeeded as 30th president of the united states when harding died in 1923 (1872-1933)
power broker;a person who is important by virtue of the people or votes they control. 'a power broker who does you a favor will expect you to return it'
half caste;offspring of parents of different races or cultures
garment cutter;someone who cuts cloth etc. to measure in making garments
nympho;a woman with abnormal sexual desires
question master;(british) the host or chairman of a radio or tv quiz show or panel game
nosey parker;a person who meddles in the affairs of others
catawba;a member of the siouan people formerly living in the carolinas
esthete;one who professes great sensitivity to the beauty of art and nature
nondescript;a person is not easily classified and not very interesting
ma;informal terms for a mother
social climber;someone seeking social prominence by obsequious behavior
damoiselle;a young unmarried woman
stonecutter;a craftsman who works with stone or brick
unpaid worker;a person who performs voluntary work
subnormal;a person of less than normal intelligence
woden;chief god. counterpart of norse odin and teutonic wotan
secundigravida;a woman who is pregnant for the second time
superman;a person with great powers and abilities
the virgin;the mother of jesus. christians refer to her as the virgin mary. she is especially honored by roman catholics
guerrilla;a member of an irregular armed force that fights a stronger force by sabotage and harassment
grande dame;a woman of great prestige or ability
mover;(parliamentary procedure) someone who makes a formal motion
sabbatarian;one who observes saturday as the sabbath (as in judaism)
hotel detective;a private detective employed by a hotel or retail store
child;a youthful female person. 'the baby was a girl'. 'the girls were just learning to ride a tricycle'
adorer;someone who admires. especially an admirer of a young woman. 'she had many admirers'
mylitta;(babylonian and assyrian) goddess of love and fertility ad war. counterpart of ashtoreth and astarte
votyak;a member of the finno-ugric-speaking people living in eastern european russia
mordvin;a member of the agricultural people living in the central volga provinces of european russia
scalawag;one who is playfully mischievous
nipponese;a native or inhabitant of japan
bellwether;someone who assumes leadership of a movement or activity
hermit;one retired from society for religious reasons
free liver;someone who gratifies physical appetites (especially for food and drink) with more than the usual freedom
supply officer;a commissioned officer responsible for logistics
brother;a close friend who accompanies his buddies in their activities
companion;a traveler who accompanies you
saint;person of exceptional holiness
wag;(informal) a witty amusing person who makes jokes
matriculate;someone who has been admitted to a college or university
savara;a member of the dravidian people living in s india
priest doctor;in societies practicing shamanism: one acting as a medium between the visible and spirit worlds. practices sorcery for healing or divination
self starter;an energetic person with unusual initiative
burgher;a citizen of an english borough
chancellor of the exchequer;the british cabinet minister responsible for finance
creature;a human being. 'wight' is an archaic term
escort;someone who escorts and protects a prominent person
keeper;one having charge of buildings or grounds or animals
disagreeable woman;a woman who is an unpleasant person
stationery seller;a merchant who sells writing materials and office supplies
mulla;a muslim trained in the doctrine and law of islam. the head of a mosque
khirghiz;a member of a people of turkic speech and mongolian race inhabiting vast regions of central siberia
evil spirit;a spirit tending to cause harm
dodger;a shifty deceptive person
rundstedt;german field marshal in world war ii who directed the conquest of poland and led the ardennes counteroffensive (1875-1953)
adventurer;a person who enjoys taking risks
cook;someone who cooks food
adept;someone who is very highly skilled
unwelcome person;a person who for some reason is not wanted or welcome
seedman;a dealer in seeds
macho man;a man who is virile and sexually active
hacker;a programmer for whom computing is its own reward. may enjoy the challenge of breaking into other computers
diversionist;someone who commits sabotage
octoroon;an offspring of a quadroon and a white parent. a person who is one-eighth black
business leader;a very wealthy or powerful businessman: 'an oil baron'
murderess;a woman murderer
maneuverer;a person skilled in maneuvering
pharaoh;the title of the ancient egyptian kings
investment banker;a banker who deals chiefly in underwriting new securities
teddy boy;(brit) a tough youth of 1950's and 1960's wearing edwardian style clothes
vicereine;governor of a country or province who rules as the representative of his or her king or sovereign
rapscallion;one who is playfully mischievous
apparition;an unusual appearing ghostly figure. 'we were unprepared for the apparition that confronted us'
ideologist;an advocate of some ideology
ship s officer;a person authorized to serve in a position of authority on a vessel. 'he is the officer in charge of the ship's engines'
saphead;a person who lacks good judgment
yeller;someone who communicates vocally in a very loud voice
mozart;1756-1791
groom to be;a man who is engaged to be married
cannibal;a person who eats human flesh
bully;a cruel and brutal fellow
anomaly;a person who is unusual
ape man;a person assumed to have been raised by apes
jinnee;a spirit believed by muslims to inhabit the earth and influence mankind by appearing in the form of humans or animals
poultryman;a dealer in poultry and poultry products
marquess;nobleman (in various countries) ranking above a count
medical practitioner;someone who practices medicine
junior;the younger of two men
mam;a member of a mayan people of sw guatemala
resident physician;a physician (especially an intern) who lives in a hospital and cares for hospitalized patients under the supervision of the medical staff of the hospital
hans christian andersen;a danish author remembered for his fairy stories (1805-1875)
klutz;an awkward stupid person
polynesian;a native or inhabitant of polynesia
georgian;a native or inhabitant of asian georgia
imbecile;a person of subnormal intelligence
religious person;a person who manifests devotion to a deity
lieutenant;an assistant with power to act when his superior is absent
saint thomas;italian (roman catholic) theologian remembered for his attempt to reconcile faith and reason in a comprehensive theology (1225-1274)
spelunker;a person who explores caves
djinny;a spirit believed by muslims to inhabit the earth and influence mankind by appearing in the form of humans or animals
seducer;a man who takes advantage of women
scrounger;someone who mooches or cadges (tries to get something free)
roundhead;a supporter of parliament and oliver cromwell during the english civil war
newspaper editor;the editor of a newspaper
debaucher;someone who assaults others sexually
wardress;a woman warder
pigmy;any member of various peoples having an average height of less than five feet
cypher;a person of no influence
monarchist;an advocate of the principles of monarchy
repeater;a person who repeats. 'the audience consisted largely of repeaters who had seen the movie many times'
bigamist;someone who marries one person while already legally married to another
odd fellow;someone regarded as eccentric or crazy
earl russell;1872-1970
cimabue;(1240-1302) painter of the florentine school. anticipated the move from byzantine to naturalistic art
headman;an executioner who beheads the condemned person
elizabethan;a person who lived during the reign of elizabeth i. 'william shakespeare was an elizabethan'
medical social worker;an official in a british hospital who looks after the social and material needs of the patients
essayist;a writer of literary works
company;a social visitor. 'the room was a mess because he hadn't expected company'
burgomaster;a mayor of a municipality in germany or holland or flanders or austria
blackguard;someone who is morally reprehensible. 'you dirty dog'
nationalist;one who loves and defends his or her country
relief pitcher;a pitcher who does not start the game
he man;a man who is virile and sexually active
antifeminist;someone who does not believe in the social or economic or political equality of men and women
taco;ethnic slur. offensive terms for a person of mexican descent
hostler;someone employed in a stable to take care of the horses
corporal;a noncommissioned officer in the army or airforce or marines
garroter;someone who kills by strangling
linebacker;a defensive football player who takes a position close behind the linemen
weirdo;someone deranged and possibly dangerous
man of letters;a man devoted to literary or scholarly activities
workfellow;an associate you work with
accountant;someone who maintains and audits business accounts
reaumur;french physicist who invented the alcohol thermometer (1683-1757)
mycologist;a botanist who specializes in the study of fungi
generalist;a modern scholar who is in a position to acquire more than superficial knowledge about many different interests. 'a statistician has to be something of a generalist'
mouth;a person conceived as a consumer of food. 'he has four mouths to feed'
slattern;a dirty untidy woman
hunter;a person who searches for something. 'a treasure hunter'
inmate;one of several resident of a dwelling (especially someone confined to a prison or hospital)
black person;a person with dark skin who comes from africa (or whose ancestors came from africa)
market analyst;an analyst of conditions affecting a market (especially the stock market)
larcener;a person who commits larceny
sir arthur sullivan;english composer (1842-1900)
tradesman;a merchant who owns or manages a shop
indira nehru gandhi;(1917-1984) daughter of nehru who served as prime minister of india from 1966 to 1977
mater;informal terms for a mother
morgan;a buccaneer who raided spanish colonies in the west indies for the english
dear;a sweet innocent mild-mannered person (especially a child)
smallholder;(british) a person owning or renting a smallholding
bogey;an evil spirit
wriggler;one who can't stay still especially a child: 'the toddler was a real wiggler on plane trips
john maynard keynes;english economist who advocated the use of government monetary and fiscal policy to maintain full employment without inflation (1883-1946)
sitting duck;a defenseless victim
amon ra;sun god. supreme god of the universe in whom amen and ra were combined. principal deity during theban supremacy
man of action;someone inclined to act first and think later
corporate executive;an executive in a business corporation
aliterate;a person who can read but is disinclined to derive information from literary sources
wandering jew;a legendary jew condemned to roam the world for mocking jesus at the crucifixion
scout;someone employed to discover and recruit talented persons (especially in the worlds of entertainment or sports)
friend;a person who backs a politician or a team etc.. 'all their supporters came out for the game'. 'they are friends of the library'
procrastinator;someone who postpones work (especially out of laziness or habitual carelessness)
tiger;a fierce or audacious person. 'he's a tiger on the tennis court'. 'it aroused the tiger in me'
selectman;an elected member of a board of officials who run new england towns
merodach;(babylonian) the chief babylonian god. his consort was sarpanitu
ancestor;someone from whom you are descended (but usually more remote that a grandparent)
pickpocket;a thief who steals from the pockets or purses of others in public places
maligner;one who attacks the reputation of another by slander or libel
zoroastrian;follower of zoroaster and zoroastrianism
radical;a person who has radical ideas or opinions
supreme authority;someone with the power to settle matters at will. 'she was the final arbiter on all matters of fashion'
richard coeur de lion;(1157-1199) son of henry ii and king of england from 1189 to 1199. a leader of the third crusade. on his way home from the crusade he was captured and held prisoner in the holy roman empire until england ransomed him in 1194
toper;a person who drinks alcoholic beverages (especially to excess)
gamin;a homeless child who has been abandoned and roams the streets
statue maker;an artist who creates sculptures
basketeer;an athlete who plays basketball
disarmer;someone opposed to violence as a means of settling disputes
seizer;a kidnapper who drugs men and takes them for compulsory service aboard a ship
baby;a very young child (birth to 1 year) who has not yet begun to walk or talk. 'isn't she too young to have a baby?'
metic;an alien who paid a fee to reside in an ancient greek city
ace;someone who is very highly skilled
rani;(the feminine of raja) a hindu princess or the wife of a raja
volleyball player;someone who plays the game of volleyball
pirate;someone who robs at sea or plunders the land from the sea without having a commission from any sovereign nation
shepherd;a herder of sheep (on an open range). someone who keeps the sheep together in a flock
gook;a disparaging term for an asian person (especially for north vietnamese soldiers in the vietnam war)
serf;(medieval europe) a person who is bound to the land and owned by the feudal lord
prima donna;a vain and temperamental person
deliverer;a person who rescues you from harm or danger
eurasian;a person of mixed european and asian descent
filer;a clerk who is employed to maintain the files of an organization
old maid;an elderly unmarried woman
argonaut;someone engaged in a dangerous but potentially rewarding adventure
victim;a person who is tricked or swindled
athlete;a person trained to compete in sports
high muck a muck;an arrogant or conceited person of importance
boatswain;a petty officer on a merchant ship who controls the work of other seamen
candy striper;a volunteer worker in a hospital
congregationalist;a member of the congregational church
bum;a person who is deemed to be despicable or contemptible. 'only a rotter would do that'. 'kill the rat'. 'throw the bum out'. 'you cowardly little pukes!'
parkinson;british historian noted for ridicule of bureaucracies (1909- )
male person;a person who belongs to the sex that cannot have babies
representative;an advocate who represents someone else's policy or purpose. 'the meeting was attended by spokespersons for all the major organs of government'
father god;god when considered as the first person in the trinity. 'hear our prayers, heavenly father'
ulfilas;a christian bishop who translated the bible from greek into gothic (311-382)
garmentworker;a person who makes garments
parliamentary agent;a person (in britain) who is employed to look after the affairs of businesses that are affected by legislation of the british parliament
folk poet;a folk writer who composes in verse
weightlifter;an athlete who lifts barbells
ape man;hypothetical organism formerly thought to be intermediate between apes and human beings
coaster;someone who coasts
sourdough;a settler or prospector (especially in western us or northwest canada and alaska)
christian scientist;a member of the protestant church founded in the us by mary baker eddy
unpleasant woman;a woman who is an unpleasant person
anthropologist;a social scientist who specializes in anthropology
victualler;an innkeeper (especially british)
barbarossa;(1123-1190) holy roman emperor from 1152 to 1190. conceded supremacy to the pope. drowned leading the third crusade
skipper;the naval officer in command of a military ship
groom;a man who has recently been married
surfer;someone who engages in surfboarding
gentleman;a man of refinement
gloomy gus;(informal) someone with a habitually sullen or gloomy expression
suspect;a person against whom an action is brought in a court of law
dope;an ignorant or foolish person
proponent;a person who pleads for a cause or idea
grenadian;a native or inhabitant of grenada
lisper;a speaker who lisps
autobiographer;someone who writes their own biography
antony;roman general under julius caesar in the gallic wars. repudiated his wife for the egyptian queen cleopatra. they were defeated by octavian at actium (83-30 bc)
cuckold;a man whose wife committed adultery
godson;a male godchild
kublai kahn;founder of the mongol dynasty in china (1216-1294)
lamb;a person easily deceived or cheated (especially in financial matters)
brigid;irish abbess. a patron saint of ireland
salvadorean;a native or inhabitant of el salvador
haulier;a haulage contractor
cuss;a persistently annoying person
townie;resident of a college town not affiliated with the college
communist;a socialist who advocates communism
justifier;a person who argues to defend or justify some policy or institution. 'an apologist for capital punishment'
flunky;a male servant (especially a footman)
wildcatter;an oilman who drills exploratory wells in territory not known to be an oil field
money handler;a person who receives, invests or pays out money
shocker;a shockingly bad person
progressive;a person who favors a political philosophy of progress and reform and the protection of civil liberties
doubting thomas;someone who demands physical evidence in order to be convinced (especially when this demand is out of place)
jonathan swift;an anglo-irish satirist (1667-1745)
recidivist;someone who is repeatedly arrested for criminal behavior (especially for the same criminal behavior)
tragedian;a writer (especially a playwright) who writes
rover;someone who leads a wandering unsettled life
bailiff;an officer of the court who is employed to execute writs and processes and make arrests etc.
gypsy;a member of a nomadic people originating in n india and now living on all continents
framer;someone who makes frames
swift;an anglo-irish satirist (1667-1745)
television announcer;an announcer on television
demoniac;someone who acts as if possessed by a demon
otolaryngologist;a specialist in the disorders of the ear or nose or throat
witch doctor;someone who is believed to heal through magical powers
retaliator;someone who takes vengeance
domestic;a household servant
barrow boy;a hawker of fruit and vegetables from a barrow
philistine;a person who is uninterested in intellectual pursuits
pontos;ancient personification of the sea. father of nereus
drum majorette;a female drum major
saint george;christian martyr. patron saint of england. hero of the legend of saint george and the dragon in which he slew a dragon and saved a princess (?-303)
bat boy;(baseball) a boy who takes care of bats and other baseball equipment
booster;a thief who steals goods that are on display in a store
licentiate;holds a license (degree) from a (european) university
kansan;a resident of kansas
huckster;a person who writes radio or tv advertisements
amen ra;sun god. supreme god of the universe in whom amen and ra were combined. principal deity during theban supremacy
rhibhus;one of three artisans of the gods
viewer;a close observer. someone who looks at something (such as an exhibition of some kind). 'the spectators applauded the performance'. 'television viewers'. 'sky watchers discovered a new star'
dominican;a catholic friar wearing the black mantle of the dominican order
sir william gilbert;a librettist who was a collaborator with sir arthur sullivan (1836-1911)
fruitcake;a whimsically eccentric person
deadbeat dad;a father who defaults on his obligation to provide financial support for his offspring
ronald reagan;40th president of the united states (1911- )
pyrrhus;king of epirus. defeated the romans in two battles in spite of staggering losses (319-272 bc)
emir;an independent ruler or chieftain (especially in africa or arabia)
castaway;a shipwrecked person
bibliotist;someone who engages in bibliotics
izanagi;the god who fathered the islands and gods of japan with his sister izanami
bahreini;a native or inhabitant of bahrain
conquistador;an adventurer (especially one who led the spanish conquest of mexico and peru in the 16th century)
dotard;(informal) someone whose style is out of fashion
throwaway;a homeless child who has been abandoned and roams the streets
bassoonist;a musician who plays the bassoon
landlubber;a person who lives and works on land
saint bridget;irish abbess. a patron saint of ireland
sleuthhound;a detective who follows a trail
litigator;a party to a lawsuit
potentate;someone who rules unconstrained by law
yank;an american
thatch;an english pirate who operated in the caribbean and off the atlantic coast of north america (died in 1718)
ahriman;the spirit of evil in zoroastrianism. arch rival of ormazd
brat;a very troublesome child
footer;a person who travels by foot
imam;(islam) the man who leads prayers in a mosque
fella;a boy or man. 'that chap is your host'. 'there's a fellow at the door'. 'he's a likable cuss'
fashion model;a woman who wears clothes to display fashions. 'she was too fat to be a mannequin'
mother;a term of address for an elderly woman
past master;someone who was formerly a master
stalker;someone who stalks game
smart aleck;an upstart who makes conceited, sardonic, insolent comments
dairymaid;a woman who works in a dairy
congresswoman;a member of the us house of representatives
squawker;a person given to excessive complaints and crying
modiste;someone who makes and sells hats
zany;a buffoon in one of the old comedies. imitates others for ludicrous effect
enrollee;a learner who enrolls in (or is enrolled in) a class or course of study
tellurian;an inhabitant of the earth
protagonist;a person who backs a politician or a team etc.. 'all their supporters came out for the game'. 'they are friends of the library'
arkansawyer;a resident of arkansas
elegist;the author of a mournful poem lamenting the dead
gerontologist;a specialist in gerontology
cornelius jansenius;roman catholic theologian (1585-1638)
hualapai;a member of a north american people formerly living in the colorado river valley in arizona
sharpy;a person who swindles you by means of deception or fraud
odin;ruler of the aesir. supreme god of war and poetry and knowledge and wisdom (for which he gave an eye) and husband of frigg. identified with the teutonic wotan
stunt man;a stand-in for movie stars to perform dangerous stunts. 'his first job in hollywood was as a double for clrak gable'
mao;chinese communist leader (1893-1976)
esq;(british) a title of respect for a member of the english gentry ranking just below a knight. placed after the name
togolese;a native or inhabitant of togo
housewrecker;a wrecker of houses. 'in england a housewrecker is called a housebreaker'
bookie;a gambler who accepts and pays off bets (especially on horse races)
hanger on;someone who persistently (and annoyingly) follows along
quarry;a person who is the victim of ridicule or exploitation by some hostile person or influence. 'he fell prey to muggers'. 'everyone was fair game'
contemporary;a person of nearly the same age as another
auto mechanic;someone whose occupation is repairing and maintaining automobiles
purist;someone who insists on great precision and correctness (especially in the use of words)
adviser;an expert who gives advice
caretaker;a custodian who is hired to take care of something (property or a person)
ulysses grant;18th president of the united states. commander of the union armies in the american civil war (1822-1885)
cicerone;a guide who conducts and informs sightseers
johnny;(informal) 'johnny' was applied as a nickname for confederate soldiers by the federal soldiers in the american civil war. 'grayback' derived from their gray confederate uniforms
bull;a very large and strong man. 'he was a bull of a man'
stepchild;a child of your spouse by a former marriage
babu;used as a hindi courtesy title. equivalent to english 'mr'
iraki;a native or inhabitant of iraq
mendicant;a male religious of an order of mendicant preachers of the gospel
aide;an officer who acts as military assistant
powhatan;a member of the algonquian people who formerly lived in e virginia
scoutmaster;the leader of a troop of scouts
loon;a worthless lazy fellow
bullfighter;someone who fights bulls
role player;a person who makes deceitful pretenses
constructivist;an artist of the school of constructivism
charles lutwidge dodgson;english author. charles dodgson was an oxford don of mathematics who is remembered for the children's stories he wrote under the pen name lewis carroll (1832-1898)
theatregoer;someone who attends the theater
mathematician;a person skilled in mathematics
jockey;someone employed to ride horses in horse races
picknicker;a person who is picnicking
blood relative;one related by blood or origin. especially on sharing an ancestor with another
panjabi;a member of the majority people of punjab in nw india
buckaroo;local names for a cowboy ('vaquero' is used especially in sw and c texas. 'buckaroo' is used especially in california)
amah;a woman hired to suckle a child of someone else
bum;person who does no work
football player;an athlete who plays football
powder monkey;someone who carries explosives (as from the magazine to the guns on board a warship)
machine gunner;a serviceman in the artillery
enemy;a personal enemy. 'they had been political foes for years'
sibyl;(ancient greece and rome) a woman who was regarded as an oracle or prophet
stepson;the son your spouse by a former marriage
beef man;a man who raises (or tends) cattle
mathematical statistician;a mathematician who specializes in statistics
spic;ethnic slur. offensive terms for persons of latin american descent
sir henry;a buccaneer who raided spanish colonies in the west indies for the english
fornicator;someone who commits adultery
freethinker;a person who believes that god created the universe and then abandoned it
ninigi;grandson of amaterasu and first ruler of japan
subeditor;an assistant editor
visitor;someone who visits
hindu;a person who adheres to hinduism
bridge player;a card player in a game of bridge. 'we need a 4th hand for bridge'
housemaid;a female domestic
loan shark;someone who lends money at excessive rates of interest
power worker;a worker at a power station
fellow;a man who is the lover of a girl or young woman. 'if i'd known he was her boyfriend i wouldn't have asked'
worshiper;a person who has religious faith
starlet;a young (film) actress who is publicized as a future star
saver;someone who saves something from danger or violence
pollster;someone who conducts surveys of public opinion
chickasaw;a member of the muskhogean people formerly living in n mississippi
mark;a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
patriarch;a man who is older and higher in rank than yourself
material;a person judged suitable for admission or employment. 'he was university material'. 'she was vice-presidential material'
morrigan;(irish) war goddess
fille;a young woman. 'a young lady of 18'
sheriff;the principal law-enforcement officer in a county
plotter;a planner who draws up a personal scheme of action
plebe;a military trainee (as at a military academy)
sewer;someone who sews. 'a sewer of fine gowns'
chairperson;the officer who presides at the meetings of an organization
honcho;a person who exercises control over workers. 'if you want to leave early you have to ask the foreman'
baby;an immature childish person. 'he remained a child in practical matters as long as he lived'. 'stop being a baby!'
morgan le fay;a wicked fairy who was the half sister of king arthur
maven;someone who is very highly skilled
copt;a member of the coptic church
rocker;(british) a british teenager in the 1960s who wore leather jackets and rode motorcycles
driver;a golfer who hits the golf ball with a driver
street sweeper;a worker employed to clean streets (especially one employed by a municipal sanitation department)
skunk;a person who is deemed to be despicable or contemptible. 'only a rotter would do that'. 'kill the rat'. 'throw the bum out'. 'you cowardly little pukes!'
glazier;someone who cuts flat glass to size
exciseman;someone who collects taxes for the government
taxidermist;a craftsman who stuffs and mounts the skins of animals for display
hostess;a woman innkeeper
grand duke;a prince who rules a territory
recitalist;a musician who gives recitals
pavlov;russian physiologist who observed conditioned salivary responses in dogs (1849-1936)
nighthawk;a person who likes to be active late at night
tease;someone given to teasing (as by mocking or stirring curiosity)
fan;an ardent follower
terpsichore;(greek mythology) the muse of the dance and of choral song
police lieutenant;an officer in a police force
eratosthenes;greek mathematician and astronomer who estimated the circumference of the earth and the distances to the moon and sun (276-194 bc)
legate;a member of a legation
subjectivist;a person who subscribes to subjectivism
countrywoman;a woman who lives in the country and has country ways
gourmand;a person who is devoted to eating and drinking to excess
victorian;a person who lived during the reign of victoria
wild man;a person who is not socialized
informant;a person who supplies information
beninese;a native or inhabitant of benin
rep;informal abbreviation of 'representative'
tennis pro;someone who earns a living playing or teaching tennis
emancipationist;a reformer who favors abolishing slavery
athelstan;the first saxon ruler who extended his kingdom to include nearly all of england (895-939)
slug;an idle slothful person
rutherford birchard hayes;19th president of the united states (1822-1893)
southpaw;a baseball pitcher who throws the ball with the left hand
bidder;someone who makes an offer
veps;a member of a finnish people of russia
striker;an employee on strike against an employer
prodigal;a recklessly extravagant consumer
record holder;someone who breaks a record
schoolteacher;a teacher in a school below the college level
arithmetician;someone who specializes in arithmetic
tenant farmer;a farmer who works land owned by someone else
fireman;a person who tends fires
equalitarian;a person who believes in the equality of all people
psychotic;a person afflicted with psychosis
champion;a person who backs a politician or a team etc.. 'all their supporters came out for the game'. 'they are friends of the library'
collector;a person who collects things (e.g. stamps) as a hobby
lot;(old testament) nephew of abraham. god destroyed sodom and gomorrah but chose to spare lot and his family who were told to flee without looking back at the destruction
fiance;a man who is engaged to be married
afghan;a native or inhabitant of afghanistan
lookout man;a person employed to watch for something to happen
minstrel;a singer of folk songs
namtaru;(sumerian and akkadian) a demon personifying death. messenger of the underworld goddess ereshkigal bringing death to mankind
arbiter;someone with the power to settle matters at will. 'she was the final arbiter on all matters of fashion'
buffoon;a rude or vulgar fool
lug;(irish) ancient irish god (probably a god of the sun)
frederick barbarossa;(1123-1190) holy roman emperor from 1152 to 1190. conceded supremacy to the pope. drowned leading the third crusade
doubter;someone who habitually doubts accepted beliefs
beginner;someone new to a field or activity
respondent;the defendant (especially in a divorce proceeding who is accused of adultery with the corespondent)
bar girl;a woman employed by a bar to act as a companion to men customers
shipping clerk;an employee who ships and receives goods
uniate;a member of the uniat church
metallurgical engineer;an engineer trained in the extraction and refining and alloying and fabrication of metals
pantomimer;an actor who communicates entirely by gesture and facial expression
bluffer;a person who tries to bluff other people
buckeye;a resident of ohio
pitching coach;an assistant baseball coach in charge of pitchers
godfather;any man who serves as a sponsor for a child at baptism
conciliator;someone who tries to bring peace
spinster;an elderly unmarried woman
sailmaker;a maker of sails
aesthete;one who professes great sensitivity to the beauty of art and nature
jehovah;the christian god
cynic;someone who is critical of the motives of others
womanizer;a man who likes many women and has short sexual relationships with them
senior;an undergraduate student during the year preceding graduation
retail merchant;a merchant who sells goods at retail
daddy;an informal term for a father. probably derived from baby talk
hobbledehoy;an awkward bad-mannered adolescent boy
registrar;a person employed to keep a record of the owners of stocks and bonds issued by the company
john;a prostitute's customer
boole;(1815-1864) english mathematician. creator of boolean algebra
headman;the head of a tribe or clan
gottfried wilhelm leibnitz;1646-1716
giovanni da verrazano;florentine explorer of the eastern coast of north america (circa 1485-1528)
brain doctor;a medical specialist in the nervous system and the disorders affecting it
enlistee;any new member or supporter (as in the armed forces)
appellant;the party who appeals a decision of a lower court
athabascan;a member of any of the north american indian groups speaking an athapaskan language and living in the subarctic regions of western canada and central alaska
mother in law;the mother of your spouse
female parent;a woman who has given birth to a child (also used as a term of address to your mother). 'the mother of three children'
pi;the scientist in charge of an experiment or research project
scholar;a learned person (especially in the humanities). someone who by long study has gained mastery in one or more disciplines
geb;god of the earth. father of osiris and isis
muggins;a person who lacks good judgment
orator;a person who delivers a speech or oration
republican;an advocate of a republic (usually in opposition to a monarchy)
hedonist;someone motivated by desires for sensual pleasures
transvestite;someone who adopts the dress or manner or sexual role of the opposite sex
jefferson;3rd president of the united states. chief drafter of the declaration of independence. made the louisiana purchase in 1803 and sent out the lewis and clark expedition (1743-1826)
desk clerk;a hotel receptionist
franz kafka;1883-1924
guinevere;(arthurian legend) wife of king arthur. in some versions of the legend she became lancelot's lover and that led to the end of the knights of the round table
starets;a religious adviser (not necessarily a priest) in the eastern orthodox church
tolltaker;someone employed to collect tolls
anglo indian;a person of english citizenship born or living in india
individual;"a human being. 'there was too much for one person to do'"
catherine of aragon;(1485-1536) first wife of henry viii of england. henry's divorce from her marked an initial step in the english reformation
teaching fellow;a graduate student with teaching responsibilities
aeon;(in gnosticism) a divine power or nature emanating from the supreme being and playing various roles in the operation of the universe
napier;scottish mathematician. invented logarithms. introduced the use of the decimal point in writing numbers (1550-1617)
dyke;a lesbian who is noticeably masculine
double crosser;a person who says one thing and does another
flapper;a young woman in the 1920s who flaunted her unconventional conduct and dress
celebrant;a person who is celebrating
chaplain;a clergyman ministering to some institution
dionysus;(greek mythology) god of wine and fertility and drama. the greek name of bacchus
guardsman;a soldier who is a member of a unit called 'the guard' or 'guards'
peewee;disparaging terms for small people
shaper;a person who makes things
common scold;someone (especially a woman) who annoys people by constantly finding fault
punter;(football) a person who kicks the football by dropping it from the hands and contacting it with the foot before it hits the ground
bouncer;a person whose duty is to throw troublemakers out of a bar or public meeting
ultraconservative;an extreme conservative. an opponent of progress or liberalism
angus;(irish) god of love and beauty. patron deity of young men and women
langobard;a member of a germanic people who invaded northern italy in the 6th century
henry i;(1068-1135) king of england from 1100 to 1135. youngest son of william the conqueror. conquered normandy in 1106
confederate;someone who assists in a plot
electrocutioner;an executioner who uses electricity to kill the condemned person
house husband;a husband who keeps house while his wife earns the family income
henry james;1843-1916
marathon runner;someone who participates in long-distance races (especially in marathons)
paymaster;a person in charge of paying wages
do gooder;someone devoted to the promotion of human welfare and to social reforms
semiprofessional;an athlete who plays for pay on a part-time basis
informer;one who reveals confidential information in return for money
illusionist;a person with unusual powers of foresight
paddy;ethnic slur. a person of irish descent
tippler;someone who drinks liquor repeatedly in small quantities
wop;ethnic slur. offensive terms for a person of italian descent
macushla;(an irish term of address expressing affection) darling
shrink;a physician who specializes in psychiatry
theologian;someone who is learned in theology
semifinalist;one of four competitors remaining in a tournament by elimination
chief executive;the person who holds the office of head of state of the us government. 'the president likes to jog every morning'the person who holds the office of head of state of the us government. 'the president likes to jog every morning'
patron;someone who supports or champions something
educationalist;a specialist in the theory of education
diabolist;an adherent of satan or satanism
tenno;(archaic) the emperor of japan. when regarded as a religious leader the emperor is called tenno
tartufe;a hypocrite who pretends to religious piety (after the protagonist in a play by moliere)
leaseholder;a tenant who holds a lease
geezer;(informal) a man who is (usually) old and/or eccentric
crown princess;a female heir apparent to a throne
school teacher;a teacher in a school below the college level
vaccinee;a patient who has been vaccinated
geneticist;a scientist who specializes in genetics
dalmatian;a native or inhabitant of dalmatia
countess;female equivalent of a count or earl
neophyte;any new participant in some activity
proxy;a person authorized to act for another
sharecropper;small farmers and tenants
santa claus;the legendary patron saint of children
border patrolman;someone who patrols the borders of a country
stepfather;the husband of your mother by a subsequent marriage
timeserver;one who conforms to current ways and opinions for personal advantage
initiate;someone who has been admitted to membership in a scholarly field
ormuzd;chief deity of zoroastrianism. source of light and embodiment of good
extremist;a person who holds extreme views
serbian;a member of a slavic people who settled in serbia and neighboring areas in the 6th and 7th centuries
boehm;(1575-1624) german mystic and theosophist who founded modern theosophy. influenced george fox
shoshoni;a member of the north american indian people (related to the aztecs) of the sw us
humphrey bogart;(1899-1957) american film actor
acceptor;the person (or institution) who accepts a check or draft and becomes responsible for paying the party named in the draft when it matures
contralto;a woman singer having a contralto voice
sarpanitu;(babylonian) consort of marduk
lay reader;a layman authorized to read sermons
stutterer;someone who speaks with involuntary pauses and repetitions
zulu;a member of the tall negroid people of se africa living in n natal
trouper;an actor who travels around the country presenting plays
hernando cortez;(1485-1547) spanish conquistador who defeated the aztecs and conquered mexico
eulogist;an orator who delivers eulogies or panegyrics
stalin;russian soviet leader (1879-1953)
captain;a diningroom attendant who is in charge of the waiters and the seating of customers
stockbroker;an agent in the buying and selling of stocks and bonds
bellyacher;a person given to excessive complaints and crying
patentee;the inventor to whom a patent is issued
gaius cassius longinus;prime mover in the conspiracy against julius caesar (died in 42 bc)
artemis;(greek mythology) the virgin goddess of the hunt and the moon. daughter of leto and twin sister of apollo. identified with roman diana
dissembler;a person who professes beliefs and opinions that they do not hold
betrayer;one who reveals confidential information in return for money
harpooneer;someone who launches harpoons
androgyne;one having both male and female sexual characteristics and organs
old geezer;an elderly man
north dakotan;a resident of north dakota
physioltherapist;a therapist who treats injury or dysfunction with exercises and other physical treatments of the disorder
sensationalist;someone who uses exaggerated or lurid material in order to gain public attention
black woman;a woman who is black
trinidadian;inhabitant or native of trinidad
bandmaster;the conductor of a band
shadow;a detective employed to follow someone and report their movements
stumblebum;a second-rate prize fighter
stage manager;someone who supervises the physical aspects in the production of a show and who is in charge of the stage when the show is being performed
carmelite;a catholic friar wearing the white cloak of the carmelite order
snorer;someone who snores while sleeping
ahura mazda;chief deity of zoroastrianism. source of light and embodiment of good
antediluvian patriarch;any of the early patriarchs who lived prior to the deluge
protestant;an adherent of protestantism
hundred percenter;an extreme bellicose nationalist
hispanic;an american whose first language was spanish
black man;a man who is black
native american;any member of the peoples living in north or south america before the europeans arrived
flaminius;roman statesman and general who built the flaminian way. was defeated by hannibal at trasimene (died 217 bc)
slut;a dirty untidy woman
murderer;a criminal who performs unlawful premeditated killing of a human being
nympholept;a person seized by nympholepsy
oto;a member of the siouan people inhabiting the valleys of the platte and missouri rivers in nebraska
employee;a worker who is hired to perform a job
plugger;someone who is an active supporter and advocate
great uncle;an uncle of your father or mother
great niece;a daughter of your niece or nephew
achaian;a member of one of the four divisions of the prehistoric greeks
general practitioner;a physician who is not a specialist but treats all illnesses
william shakspere;1564-1616
tsimshian;a member of a penutian people who lived on rivers and a sound in british columbia
abandoned person;someone for whom hope has been abandoned
rip van winkle;a person oblivious to social changes
hawker;a seller of shoddy goods
bunyan;a legendary giant lumberjack of the north woods of us and canada. had a blue ox named babe. 'the lakes of minnesota began when paul bunyan and babe's footprints filled with water'
eon;(in gnosticism) a divine power or nature emanating from the supreme being and playing various roles in the operation of the universe
pa;an informal term for a father. probably derived from baby talk
maintenance man;a worker whose job is to repair things
gerhard gerhards;dutch renaissance scholar and roman catholic theologian who attacked the theology of martin luther (1466-1536)
white russian;a native or inhabitant of byelorussia
kalif;the civil and religious leader of a muslim state. a successor of muhammad
epigone;an inferior imitator of some distinguished writer or artist of musician
black friar;a catholic friar wearing the black mantle of the dominican order
colorist;a painter able to achieve special effects with color
practical joker;someone who plays practical jokes on others
kinsperson;a person having kinship with another or others. 'he's kin'. 'he's family'
press lord;a powerful newspaper proprietor
equerry;an official charged with the care of the horses of princes or nobles
behemoth;someone who is abnormally large
moderationist;a person who takes a position in the political center
political boss;a leader in a political party who controls votes and dictates appointments. 'party bosses have a reputation for corruption'
pesterer;a persistently annoying person
receiver;a person (usually appointed by a court of law) who liquidates assets or preserves them for the benefit of affected parties
war hawk;an advocate of an aggressive policy on foreign relations
plato;ancient athenian philosopher (428-347 bc). pupil of socrates. teacher of aristotle
revisionist;a communist who tries to rewrite marxism to justify a retreat from the revolutionary position
ward heeler;a politician who belongs to a small clique that controls a political party for private rather than public ends
sixth former;(british) a student in the sixth form
ceo;the corporate executive responsible for the operations of the firm. reports to a board of directors. may appoint other managers (including a president)
barterer;a trader who exchanges goods and not money
highjacker;a holdup man who stops a vehicle and steals from it
boy wonder;an extremely talented young man
body servant;a valet or personal maid
cebuan;inhabitant of the island of cebu. a member of the visayan people of the philippines
witch;a female sorcerer or magician
pedestrian;a person who travels by foot
medical examiner;a public official who investigates by inquest any death not due to natural causes
shoshone;a member of the north american indian people (related to the aztecs) of the sw us
cataloger;a librarian who classifies publication according to a categorial system
chuvash;a member of a people of turkic speech and mongolian race living in the volga region in e russia
tammuz;sumerian and babylonian god of pastures and vegetation. consort of inanna
t man;a special law-enforcement agent of the us treasury
au pair;a young foreigner who lives with a family in return for doing light housework
betrothed;the person to whom you are engaged
shaver;a young person of either sex (between birth and puberty). 'she writes books for children'. 'they're just kids'. 'tiddler' is a british term for youngsters'
executrix;a woman executor
motorcycle cop;a policeman who rides a motorcycle (and who checks the speeds of motorists)
piute;a member of either of two shoshonean peoples (northern paiute and southern paiute) related to the aztecs and living in sw us
sahib;formerly a term of respect for important white europeans in colonial india. used after the name
koto player;a (japanese) musician who plays the koto
ogre;a cruel wicked and inhuman person
nevadan;a resident of nevada
cacodemon;(greek) an evil spirit
medallist;(golf) the winner at medal play of a golf tournament
leakey;british paleontologist who worked in tanzania (1903-1972)
steward;an attendant on an airplane
burmese;a native or inhabitant of myanmar
scrivener;someone employed to make written copies of documents and manuscripts
panofsky;1892-1968
imaum;(islam) the man who leads prayers in a mosque
pathan;a native or inhabitant of afghanistan
guatemalan;a native or inhabitant of guatemala
scenarist;a writer of screenplays
viscount st. albans;1561-1626
coconspirator;a member of a conspiracy
tallyman;one who keeps a tally of quantity or weight of goods produced or shipped or received
questioner;someone who asks a question
delilah;a woman who is considered to be dangerously seductive
aerialist;an acrobat who performs in the air (as on a rope or trapeze)
tooth doctor;a person qualified to practice dentistry
freelance;a writer or artist who sells services to different employers without a long-term contract with any of them
shaktist;worshipper of shakti
peasant;a country person
faerie;small, human in form, playful, having magical powers
eclecticist;someone who selects according to the eclectic method
donne;1572-1631
apostle paul;a christian missionary to the gentiles. author of several epistles in the new testament. even though paul was not present at the last supper he is considered an apostle
fireball;a highly energetic and indefatigable person
stamp collector;a collector and student of postage stamps
pivot man;the person in a line around whom the others wheel and maneuver
northerner;an inhabitant of the north
autocrat;a dictator or dictatorial person
recusant;someone who refuses to conform to established standards of conduct
orderly;a male hospital attendant who has general non-medical duties
polo;venetian traveler who explored asia in the 13th century and served kublai khan (1254-1324)
missionary;someone sent on a mission--especially a religious or charitable mission to a foreign country
brahman;a member of a social and cultural elite especially a descendant of an old new england family: 'a boston brahmin'
officeholder;someone who is appointed or elected to an office and who holds a position of trust. 'he is an officer of the court'. 'the club elected its officers for the coming year'
government man;a special law-enforcement agent of the federal bureau of investigation
basque;a member of a people of unknown origin living in the w pyrenees in france and spain
aristocrat;a member of the aristocracy
swot;a student who studies excessively
ethiopian;a native or inhabitant of ethiopia
sleeping beauty;a person who is sleeping soundly
personage;another word for person. a person not meriting identification. 'a strange personage appeared at the door'
galley slave;a laborer who is obliged to do menial work
mossback;an elderly man
thrush;(informal) a woman who sings popular songs
locum;someone (physician or clergyman) who substitutes temporarily for another member of the same profession
dumuzi;sumerian and babylonian god of pastures and vegetation. consort of inanna
acadian;an early french settler in the maritimes
vulture;someone who attacks in search of booty
deity;any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force
east german;a native or inhabitant of the former republic of east germany
fashionmonger;someone who advises you about fashionable clothing
dewey;1859-1952
montfort;(1208-1265) an english nobleman who led the baronial rebellion against henry iii
mommy;informal terms for a mother
floridian;a resident of florida
hernando cortes;(1485-1547) spanish conquistador who defeated the aztecs and conquered mexico
tyler;elected vice president and became the 10th president of the united states when harrison died (1790-1862)
german;a native or inhabitant of germany
federal soldier;a member of the union army during the american civil war
birder;a person who identifies and studies birds in their natural habitats
embroideress;a woman embroiderer
the desert fox;german field marshal noted for brilliant generalship in north africa during world war ii (1891-1944)
cabin boy;a young man acting as a servant on a ship
rowdy;a cruel and brutal fellow
swaggerer;someone who walks in an arrogant manner
envoy;someone sent on a mission to represent the interests of someone else
hypostasis;any of the three persons of the godhead constituting the trinity especially the person of christ in which divine and human natures are united
cattle thief;someone who steals livestock (especially cattle)
shakti;the female or generative principle. wife of siva and a benevolent form of devi
young girl;a girl or young woman who is unmarried
cocotte;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
sioux;a member of a group of north american indian peoples who spoke a siouan language and who ranged from lake michigan to the rocky mountains
egalitarian;a person who believes in the equality of all people
blessed trinity;the union of the father and son and holy ghost in one godhead
craftsman;a creator of great skill in the manual arts. 'the jewelry was made by internationally famous craftsmen'
water dog;a person who enjoys being in or on the water
misbeliever;a person who holds religious beliefs in conflict with the dogma of the roman catholic church
prognosticator;someone who makes predictions of the future
lucifer;(judeo-christian religion) chief spirit of evil and adversary of god. tempter of mankind. master of hell
dwarf;a person who is abnormally small
scapegrace;a reckless and unprincipled reprobate
mutineer;a person who takes part in a rebellion in the hope of improving conditions
cavalier;a supporter of charles i during the english civil war
realist;a painter who represents the world realistically and not in an idealized or romantic style
manchu;a member of the manchu speaking people of mongolian race of manchuria. related to the tungus. conquered china in the 17th century
census taker;someone who collects census data by visiting individual homes
buddy;a close friend who accompanies his buddies in their activities
clansman;a member of a clan
flyer;someone who operates and aircraft
department head;the head of a department
designated hitter;a ballplayer who is designated to bat in place of the pitcher
ionian;a member of one of the four divisions of the prehistoric greeks
pledge;someone accepted for membership but not yet fully admitted to the group
afro american;an american whose ancestors were born in africa
hospital attendant;a male hospital attendant who has general non-medical duties
witch;an ugly evil-looking old woman
victualler;a supplier of victuals or supplies to an army
girl;a friendly informal reference to a grown woman. 'mrs. smith was just one of the girls'
traffic cop;a policeman who controls the flow of automobile traffic
promisor;a person who makes a promise
barkeeper;an employee who mixes and serves alcoholic drinks at a bar
wing commander;(raf rank) one who is next below a group captain
chair;the officer who presides at the meetings of an organization
conformist;someone who conforms to established standards of conduct (especially in religious matters)
monologist;an entertainer who performs along
kansa;a member of the siouan people of the kansas river valley in kansas
wordsmith;a fluent and prolific writer
freya;goddess of love and fecundity. daughter of njorth and sister of frey
gleaner;someone who gather something in small pieces (e.g. information) slowly and carefully
cutpurse;a thief who steals from the pockets or purses of others in public places
polygynist;a man with two or more wives
amateur;someone who pursues a study or sport as a pastime
cutter;someone who carves the meat
brawler;a fighter (especially one who participates in brawls)
pilferer;a thief who steals without using violence
initiator;a person who initiates a course of action
repairman;a worker whose job is to repair things
taoist trinity;the three pure ones: 3 chief gods of taoism
boomer;a member of the baby boom generation in the 1950s. 'they expanded the schools for a generation of baby boomers'
reformer;a disputant who advocates reform
gangster s moll;the girl friend of a gangster
rescuer;a person who rescues you from harm or danger
wage earner;someone who earn wages in return for their labor
precentor;the musical director of a choir
thinker;an intellectual being. 'the great minds of the 17th century'
guide;someone who can find paths through unexplored territory
avatar;ny new embodiment of a familiar idea. 'the incarnation of evil'. 'the very avatar of cunning'
pinchgut;a niggardly person who starves himself (and others)
middle of the roader;a person who takes a position in the political center
grumbler;a person given to excessive complaints and crying
texan;a resident of texas
satyr;man with strong sexual desires
mainstay;a prominent supporter. 'he is a pillar of the community'
thin person;a person who is unusually thin
cigarette smoker;a smoker of cigarettes
zarathustra;(circa 628-551 bc) persian prophet who founded zoroastrianism
levi;disciple of jesus. author of the first gospel
van gogh;1853-1890
treasury;the british cabinet minister responsible for economic strategy
fox;a shifty deceptive person
franklin;(england) a landowner (14th and 15th centuries) who was free but not of noble birth
classicist;an artistic person who adheres to classicism
fishmonger;someone who sells fish
jean baptiste pierre antoine de monet;french naturalist who proposed that evolution resulted from the inheritance of acquired characteristics (1744-1829)
theater prompter;someone who assists a performer by providing the next words of a forgotten speech
azerbaijani;a native or inhabitant of azerbaijan
dearest;a beloved person. used as terms of endearment
archeologist;an anthropologist who studies prehistoric people and their culture
priest;a spiritual leader in a non-christian religion
hired man;a hired laborer on a farm or ranch. 'the hired hand fixed the railing'. 'a ranch hand'
golden boy;a man who is unusually successful at an early age
second baseman;(baseball or softball) the person who plays second base
talker;someone who talks (especially someone who delivers a public speech)
walk on;plays a small part in a dramatic production
fogy;(informal) someone whose style is out of fashion
catholic deacon;a cleric ranking just below a priest in roman catholic churches
insurgent;a member of an irregular armed force that fights a stronger force by sabotage and harassment
grayback;(informal) 'johnny' was applied as a nickname for confederate soldiers by the federal soldiers in the american civil war. 'grayback' derived from their gray confederate uniforms
employment agent;someone who runs an employment agency
ruler;a person who rules or commands
conservativist;a person who has conservative ideas or opinions
lowlife;a person who is deemed to be despicable or contemptible. 'only a rotter would do that'. 'kill the rat'. 'throw the bum out'. 'you cowardly little pukes!'
juror;someone who serves (or waits to be called to serve) on a jury
vicereine;wife of a viceroy
judas;the apostle who betrayed jesus to his enemies for 30 pieces of silver
oil tycoon;a powerful person in the oil business
lady in waiting;a lady appointed to attend to a queen or princess
vampire;(folklore) a corpse that rises at night to drink the blood of the living
photographer s model;a model who poses for photographers
kennedy;35th president of the united states. established the peace corps. assassinated in dallas (1917-1963)
nitwit;(informal) a stupid incompetent person
anabaptist;adherent of anabaptism
prophet;an authoritative person who divines the future
motorcycle policeman;a policeman who rides a motorcycle (and who checks the speeds of motorists)
place kicker;(football) a kicker who makes a place kick for a goal
propman;member of the stage crew in charge of properties
cyril northcote parkinson;british historian noted for ridicule of bureaucracies (1909- )
yellow man;offensive term for an oriental man
dramatist;someone who writes plays
sicilian;a resident of sicily
loony;someone deranged and possibly dangerous
edwardian;someone belonging to (or as if belonging to) the era of edward vii
ishtar;(babylonian and assyrian) goddess of love and fertility ad war. counterpart of ashtoreth and astarte
crow;a member of the siouan people formerly living in e montana
queer duck;someone regarded as eccentric or crazy
neighbor;a person who lives (or is located) near another
trickster;someone who plays practical jokes on others
artaxerxes i;king of persia who sanctioned the practice of judaism in jerusalem (?-424 bc)
neurologist;a medical specialist in the nervous system and the disorders affecting it
lookout;a person employed to watch for something to happen
positivist;someone who emphasizes observable facts and excludes metaphysical speculation about origins or ultimate causes
maurice utrillo;1883-1955
ogler;a viewer who gives a flirtatious or lewd look at another person
light heavyweight;a boxer who weighs no more than 175 pounds
duffer;an incompetent or clumsy person. 'as a golfer he was only a duffer'
comanche;a member of the shoshonean people who formerly lived between wyoming and the mexican border but are now chiefly in oklahoma
ranger;a member of the texas state highway patrol. formerly a mounted lawman who maintained order on the frontier
spik;ethnic slur. offensive terms for persons of latin american descent
fiend;a person motivated by irrational enthusiasm (as for a cause)
arab;an arabic speaking person who lives in arabia or n africa
ulysses s grant;18th president of the united states. commander of the union armies in the american civil war (1822-1885)
sphinx;an inscrutable person who keeps his thoughts and intentions secret
colleen;an irish girl
sewing machine operator;someone who sews by operating a sewing machine
algebraist;a mathematician whose specialty is algebra
sprite;small, human in form, playful, having magical powers
sarasvati;goddess of learning and arts
exterminator;someone who exterminates. someone whose occupation is the extermination of troublesome rodents and insects
harvester;someone who helps to gather the harvest
faery;small, human in form, playful, having magical powers
trainee;someone who is being trained
padrone;an owner or proprietor of an inn in italy
black african;an african who is black
fox;a member of an algonquian people formerly living w of lake michigan along the fox river
ptolemy;(2nd century ad) proposed a geocentric system of astronomy that was undisputed until copernicus
reader;someone who contracts to receive and pay for a certain number of issues of a publication
schoolmarm;a woman schoolteacher
toolmaker;someone skilled in making or repairing tools
henry vii;(1457-1509) first tudor king of england from 1485 to 1509. head of the house of lancaster in the war of the roses. defeated richard iii at bosworth field and was proclaimed king. married the daughter of edward iv and so united the houses of york and lancaster
dreamer;someone who is dreaming
scrimshanker;(british) a shirker
babyminder;a woman who looks after babies in her own home while their parents are working
george iii;(1738-1820) king of great britain and ireland from 1760 to 1820. the american colonies were lost during his reign. he became insane in 1811 and his son (later george iv) acted as regent until 1820
lobsterman;a person whose occupation is catching lobsters
avalokitesvara;a male bodhisattva. widely associated with various gods and people
boaster;a very boastful and talkative person
gandy dancer;a laborer in a railroad maintenance gang
seamstress;someone who makes or mends dresses
gold digger;a woman who associates with or marries a rich man in order to get valuables from him through gifts or a divorce settlement
attendant;one who attends or waits on another
horseman;a man skilled in equitation
carib;a member of an american indian peoples of ne south america and the lesser antilles
supercargo;an officer on a merchant ship in charge of the cargo and its sale and purchase
vaisya;a member of the mercantile and professional hindu caste. the third of the four main castes
sergeant at law;an english barrister of the highest rank
fuller;a worker who fulls (cleans and thickens) freshly woven cloth for a living
dagon;(phoenician and philistine) god of agriculture and the earth. national god of philistines
viscountess;a noblewoman holding the rank of viscount in her own right
tamerlane;mongolian ruler of samarkand who led his nomadic hordes to conquer an area from turkey to mongolia (1336-1405)
shasta;a member of the indian people of n california and s oregon
bridget;irish abbess. a patron saint of ireland
goblin;(folklore) a small grotesque supernatural creature that makes trouble for human beings
thomas jefferson;3rd president of the united states. chief drafter of the declaration of independence. made the louisiana purchase in 1803 and sent out the lewis and clark expedition (1743-1826)
angus og;(irish) god of love and beauty. patron deity of young men and women
testate;a person who makes a will
faulkner;(1897-1962) novelist who wrote about people in the southern u.s.
jakob bohme;(1575-1624) german mystic and theosophist who founded modern theosophy. influenced george fox
transalpine;one living on or coming from the other side of the alps from italy
marcus antonius;roman general under julius caesar in the gallic wars. repudiated his wife for the egyptian queen cleopatra. they were defeated by octavian at actium (83-30 bc)
linkboy;(formerly) an attendant hired to carry a torch for pedestrians in dark streets
pirate;someone who uses another person's words or ideas is they were his own
exile;expelled from home or country by authority
kichai;a member of a caddo people formerly living in north central texas
norman;an inhabitant of normandy
pup;an inexperienced young person
lao;a member of a buddhist people inhabiting the area of the mekong river in laos and thailand and speaking the lao language. related to the thais
night rider;member of a secret mounted band in us south after the civil war. committed acts of intimidation and revenge
plainclothesman;a detective who wears civilian clothes on duty
zeno of citium;(ca 335-263 bc) greek philosopher who found the stoic school
scullion;a kitchen servant employed to do menial tasks (especially washing)
manicurist;a beautician who cleans and trims and polishes the fingernails
cleopatra;(69-30 bc) queen of egypt
graybeard;a man who is older and higher in rank than yourself
landsman;a person who lives and works on land
sailor;any member of a ship's crew
panelist;a member of a panel
wine maker;someone who makes wine
octavian;63 bc - 14 ad
cornishwoman;a woman who is a native or resident fo cornwall
bad fairy;a fairy that tends to cause harm
dagan;(mesopotamia) god of agriculture and earth. counterpart of phoenician dagon
tub thumper;a noisy and vigorous or ranting public speaker
kamia;a member of a north american indian people of se california and nw mexico
social worker;someone employed to provide social services (especially to the disadvantaged)
somebody;"a human being. 'there was too much for one person to do'"
white woman;a woman who is white
sparring mate;a boxer who spars with another boxer who is training for an important fight
ex;a woman who was formerly a particular man's wife. 'all his exes live in texas'
bank commissioner;a commissioner appointed to supervise banks. a state superintendent of banks
changeling;a child secretly exchanged for another in infancy
don quixote;any impractical idealist (after cervantes' hero)
cleaning woman;a human female who does housework. 'the char will clean the carpet'
jack kennedy;35th president of the united states. established the peace corps. assassinated in dallas (1917-1963)
eccentric;a person with an unusual or odd personality
nike;winged goddess of victory. identified with roman victoria
abbess;the superior of a group of nuns
ganesa;god of wisdom or prophesy. remover of obstacles
dietician;a specialist in the study of nutrition
shadow;an inseparable companion. 'the poor child was his mother's shadow'
oboist;a musician who plays the oboe
representative;a person who represents others
mahatma gandhi;(1869-1948) political and spiritual leader during india's struggle with great britain for home rule. an advocate of passive resistance
social drinker;someone who drinks liquor repeatedly in small quantities
goatherd;a person who tends a flock of goats
ichthyologist;a zoologist who studies fishes
tempter;a person who tempts others. 'satan is the great tempter of mankind'
bacon;1561-1626
bogey;(1899-1957) american film actor
countryman;a man who lives in the country and has country ways
ningirsu;(babylonian) in older pantheon: god of war and agriculture
kinswoman;a female relative
lout;an awkward stupid person
parlormaid;a maid in a private home whose duties are to care for the parlor and the table and to answer the door
builder;someone who contracts for and supervises the construction of a building
desk officer;a military officer who is not assigned to active duty
top dog;a person who is in charge. 'the head of the whole operation'
chief assistant;the most helpful assistant
mummer;an actor who communicates entirely by gesture and facial expression
midwife;a woman skilled in aiding the delivery of babies
controller;someone who maintains and audits business accounts
captain;the pilot ins charge of an airship
doris;(greek mythology) wife of nereus and mother of the nereids
queen s counsel;counsel to the crown when the british monarch is a queen
senior vice president;the ranking vice president in a firm that has more than one
gladiator;a professional boxer
besieger;an enemy who lays siege to your position
color guard;a ceremonial escort for the (regimental) colors
bandit;an armed thief who is (usually) a member of a band
coon;ethnic slur. offensive name for black person
mate;a person's partner in marriage
missis;informal term of address for someone's wife
student;a learner who is enrolled in an educational institution
suborner;someone who pays (or otherwise incites) you to commit a wrongful act
poor fish;a person who is not very bright: 'the economy, stupid!'
laird;(scotland) a landowner
censor;a person who is authorized to read publications or correspondence or to watch theatrical performances and suppress in whole or in part anything considered obscene or politically unacceptable
cowgirl;a woman cowboy
loser;a person with a record of failing
market strategist;someone skilled in planning marketing campaigns
rosebud;(a literary reference to) a pretty young girl
nudist;a person who practices nudity for reasons of health or religion
william mckinley;25th president of the united states. was assassinated by an anarchist (1843-1901)
idahoan;a resident of idaho
handicapped person;a person who has some handicap that interferes with normal functions
crier;a person who weeps
ike;as supreme commander of the allied expeditionary force he supervised the invasion of normandy and the defeat of nazi germany. 34th president of the united states (1890-1961)
richard wagner;(1813-1883) german composer
assistant professor;a teacher or lower rank than an associate professor
aphrodite;goddess of love and beauty and daughter of zeus in ancient mythology. identified with roman venus
coloradan;a resident of colorado
macebearer;an official who carries a mace of office
wrongdoer;a person who transgresses moral or civil law
ruffian;a cruel and brutal fellow
gnostic;an advocate of gnosticism
james i;(1566-1625) king of england and ireland from 1603 to 1925 and (as james vi) of scotland from 1567 to 1625. alienated parliament by claiming the divine right of kings
nabob;a wealthy man (who made his fortune in the orient)
sharecrop farmer;small farmers and tenants
scene painter;a painter of theatrical scenery
insurance agent;an agent who sells insurance
number theorist;a mathematician specializing in number theory
carl gustav jung;1875-1961
erasmus;dutch renaissance scholar and roman catholic theologian who attacked the theology of martin luther (1466-1536)
sourpuss;(informal) someone with a habitually sullen or gloomy expression
a. conan doyle;(1859-1930) english author who created sherlock holmes
greek;a native or inhabitant of greece
weaver;a craftsman who weaves cloth
chaperone;one who accompanies and supervises a young woman or gatherings of young people
batman;an orderly assigned to serve a british military officer
aper;someone who copies the words or behavior of another
monastic;a male religious living in a cloister and devoting himself to contemplation and prayer and work
modeler;a person who creates models
federal official;any federal law-enforcement officer
mnemosyne;the titaness who was goddess of memory in ancient mythology. mother of the muses
games mistress;the teacher in charge of games at a school
inspector;a high ranking police officer
columbus;1451-1506
trombone player;a musician who plays the trombone
ningishzida;(babylonian) an underworld deity. patron of medicine
shooter;a person who shoots (as regards their ability). 'he is a crack shot'. 'a poor shooter'
abnegator;one who gives up or relinquishes or renounces something
pushover;someone who is easily taken advantage of
surety;one who provides a warrant or guarantee to another
clerk;an employee who performs clerical work (e.g., keeps records or accounts)
rewriter;someone who puts text into appropriate form for publication
silenus;the chief satyr in the service of bacchus. father of dionysus. usually depicted as drunk and jolly and riding a donkey
pardner;an associate who works with others toward a common goal
fat person;a rotund individual
finisher;a garmentmaker who performs the finishing steps
inhabitant;a person who lives in a particular place
mole;a spy who works against enemy espionage
aboriginal;a dark-skinned member of a race of people living in australia when europeans arrived
lutist;a musician who plays the lute
peddler;someone who sells illegal drugs
luddite;any opponent of technological progress
anchorman;a television reporter who coordinates a broadcast to which several correspondents contribute
habitual criminal;someone who is repeatedly arrested for criminal behavior (especially for the same criminal behavior)
nude person;a naked person
literate person;a person who can read and write
pr man;someone employed to arrange publicity (for a firm or a public figure)
adapa;(babylonian) a demigod or first man: 'seed of mankind'. sometimes identified with adam
disciplinarian;someone who demands exact conformity to rules and forms
postillion;someone who rides the near horse of a pair in order to guide the horses pulling a carriage (especially a carriage without a coachman)
groundling;in elizabethan theater: a playgoer in the cheap standing section
gatekeeper;someone who guards the entrance to a building
alderman;a member of a municipal legislative body (as a city council). 'aldermen usually represent city wards'
mugwump;a neutral or uncommitted person (especially in politics)
ritualist;an advocate of strict observance of ritualistic forms
vladimir lenin;russian founder of the bolsheviks and leader of the russian revolution and first head of the ussr (1870-1924)
homo;someone who practices homosexuality. having a sexual attraction to persons of the same sex
hoosier;a resident of indiana
beholder;a person who becomes aware of through the senses
breton;a native or inhabitant of brittany (especially one who speaks the breton language)
pothunter;someone who participates in contests in order to collect trophies
amicus curiae;an adviser to the court on some matter of law. usually someone who wants to influence the outcome of a lawsuit but is not a party to it
heavyweight;a wrestler who weighs more than 214 pounds
minor leaguer;a player on a minor-league baseball team
prayer;someone who prays to god
man child;a child who is male
subscriber;someone who expresses strong approval
ka;unknown god. an epithet of prajapati and brahma
raw recruit;an inexperienced and untrained recruit
vesta;(roman mythology) goddess of the hearth and its fire whose flame was tended by vestal virgins. counterpart of greek hestia
visiting professor;a professor visiting another college or university to teach for a limited time
uniat;a member of the uniat church
modeller;a person who creates models
menial;a domestic servant
fucker;a stupid despised man
right hand man;the most helpful assistant
conoy;a member of an algonquian people formerly living in maryland between chesapeake bay and the potomac river. allies of the nanticoke people
griever;a person who is grieving over someone who has died
american;a native or inhabitant of america
benefactor;a person who helps people or institutions
house painter;a painter of houses a similar buildings
brownie;(folklore) fairies that are somewhat mischievous
upstart;a person who has suddenly risen to a higher economic status but has not gained social acceptance of others in that class
linguist;a person who speaks more than one language
interpreter;someone who uses art to represent something. 'his paintings reveal a sensitive interpreter of nature'. 'she was famous as an interpreter of shakespearean roles'
inheritor;a person who is entitled by law or by the terms of a will to inherit the estate of another
louse;has a nasty or unethical character undeserving of respect
mental telepathist;someone with the power of communicating thoughts directly
gujerati;a member of the people of gujarat
horseman;a person who breeds and cares for horses
match;a person who is of equal standing with another in a group
nightbird;a person who likes to be active late at night
comte donatien alphonse francois de sade;(1740-1814) french soldier and writer whose descriptions of sexual perversion gave rise to the term 'sadism'
priapus;god of male procreative power and guardian of gardens and vineyards
domestic help;a household servant
peasant;one of a (chiefly european) class of agricultural laborers
songster;a person who sings
deliveryman;someone employed to make deliveries
carpetbagger;an outsider who seeks power or success presumptuously. 'after the civil war the carpetbaggers from the north tried to take over the south'
evenk;a member of the tungus speaking people of mongolian race who are a nomadic people widely spread over e siberia. related to the manchu
lieutenant commander;a commissioned officer in the navy ranking above a lieutenant and below a commander
member;one of the persons who compose a social group (especially individuals who have joined and participates in a group organization). 'only members will be admitted'. 'a member of the faculty'. 'she was introduced to all the members of his family'
marksman;someone skilled in shooting
military engineer;a member of the military who is trained in engineering and construction work
sabahan;a malaysian from sabah
supporter;a person who backs a politician or a team etc.. 'all their supporters came out for the game'. 'they are friends of the library'
chump;a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
gun moll;the girl friend of a gangster
dishwasher;someone who washes dishes
secretary of state;a government minister for foreign relations
moghul;a member of the moslem dynasty that ruled india until 1857
warren gamaliel harding;29th president of the united states. two of his appointees were involved in the teapot dome scandal (1865-1823)
achiever;a person with a record of successes. 'his son would never be the achiever that his father was'. 'only winners need apply'. 'if you want to be a success you have to dress like a success'
george bush;vice president under reagan and 41st president of the united states (1924- )
mohandas karamchand gandhi;(1869-1948) political and spiritual leader during india's struggle with great britain for home rule. an advocate of passive resistance
warrantor;one who provides a warrant or guarantee to another
bhutani;a native or inhabitant of bhutan
ubermensch;a person with great powers and abilities
stunt woman;a stand-in for movie stars to perform dangerous stunts. 'his first job in hollywood was as a double for clrak gable'
huguenot;a french calvinist of the 16th or 17th centuries
recorder player;someone who plays the recorder
intellect;a person who uses the mind creatively
hiker;someone who goes on an extended walk (for pleasure)
ninny;a stupid foolish person
phoner;the person initiating a telephone call
seeded player;one of the outstanding players in a tournament
albanian;a native or inhabitant of albania
grower;someone concerned with the science or art or business of cultivating the soil
stagehand;an employee of a theater who performs work involved in putting on a theatrical production
bricklayer;a craftsman skilled in building with bricks
man;a manservant who acts as a personal attendant to his employer. 'jeeves was bertie wooster's man'
ras tafari makonnen;(1892-1975) emperor of ethiopia. worshipped by rastafarians
batter;a ballplayer who is batting
shop girl;a young female shop assistant
goon;an aggressive young criminal
demander;a person who makes demands
salvager;someone who salvages
shipper;someone who ships goods
moll;the girl friend of a gangster
angler;a scheming person. someone who schemes to gain an advantage
conspirator;a member of a conspiracy
jewel;a person who is a brilliant and precious as a piece of jewelry
vogul;a member of a nomadic people of the northern ural mountains
bachelor girl;an unmarried girl who lives alone
acrobat;an athlete who performs acts requiring skill and agility and coordination
slovenly person;a coarse obnoxious person
brunet;a person with dark (brown) hair
entrant;any new participant in some activity
probability theorist;a mathematician who specializes in probability theory
imbiber;a person who drinks alcoholic beverages (especially to excess)
oaf;an awkward stupid person
sugar daddy;a wealthy older man who gives a young person expensive gifts in return for friendship or intimacy
mountebank;a flamboyant deceiver. one who attracts customers with tricks or jokes
chicken;a person who lacks confidence, is irresolute and wishy-washy
caffer;(south africa) an offensive term for any black african
sadomasochist;someone who enjoys both sadism and masochism
suffragan bishop;an assistant or subordinate bishop of a diocese
pendragon;the supreme war chief of the ancient britons
illegitimate;the illegitimate offspring of unmarried parents
bride;a woman who has recently been married
dealer;the major party to a financial transaction. buys and sells for his own account
freewoman;a person who is not a serf or a slave
winner;a person with a record of successes. 'his son would never be the achiever that his father was'. 'only winners need apply'. 'if you want to be a success you have to dress like a success'
prattler;someone who speaks in a childish way
signaler;someone who communicates by signals
marcus vipsanius agrippa;roman general who commanded the fleet that defeated the forces of antony and cleopatra at actium (63-12 bc)
house agent;a person who is authorized to act as an agent for the sale of land. 'in england they call a realtor a land agent'
euterpe;(greek mythology) the muse of music (or the flute)
baudelaire;a french poet noted for macabre imagery and evocative language (1821-1867)
silent partner;a partner (who usually provides capital) whose association with the enterprise is not public knowledge
timekeeper;(sports) an official who keeps track of the time elapsed in a game
maniac;an insane person
jakob ludwig karl grimm;the older of the two grimm brothers remembered best for their fairy stories. also author of grimm's law describing consonant changes in germanic languages (1785-1863)
roommate;an associate who shares a room with you
giver;someone who devotes themselves completely. 'there are no greater givers than those who give themselves'
teuton;a member of the ancient germanic people who migrated from jutland to southern gaul and were annihilated by the romans
chieftain;the leader of a group of people. 'a captain of industry'
leveller;a radical who advocates the abolition of political or economic or social inequalities
tanker;a soldier who drives a tank
mollah;a muslim trained in the doctrine and law of islam. the head of a mosque
pilgrim;one who journeys to a sacred place
word painter;a writer of vivid or graphic descriptive power
duchess;the wife of a duke or a woman holding ducal title in her own right
ship chandler;a dealer in equipment and supplies for ships
traitor;a person who says one thing and does another
chewa;a member of a negro people of malawi and eastern zambia and northern rhodesia
sexagenarian;someone whose age is in the sixties
dakoit;(in india and burma) a member of an armed gang of robbers
caffeine addict;someone addicted to caffeine
scuba diver;an underwater diver who uses scuba gear
geert geerts;dutch renaissance scholar and roman catholic theologian who attacked the theology of martin luther (1466-1536)
gondoliere;a (venetian) boatman who propels a gondola
kalki;the 10th and last incarnation of vishnu
ball carrier;the football carrier who is carrying (and trying to advance) the ball
miscreant;a person without moral scruples
runner up;the competitor who finishes second
political scientist;a social scientist specializing in the study of government
lapp;an inhabitant of lappland
singhalese;a native or inhabitant of sri lanka
publius vergilius maro;(70-19 bc) a roman poet. author of the epic poem 'aeneid'
cameraman;a photographer who operates a movie camera
floozie;a prostitute who attracts customers by walking the streets
liechtensteiner;a native or inhabitant of liechtenstein
vicar of christ;the head of the roman catholic church
hellene;a native or inhabitant of greece
council member;a member of a council
gadabout;a restless seeker after amusement or social companionship
basketball coach;a coach of basketball players
pyromaniac;a person with a mania for setting things on fire
psychoanalyst;a licensed practitioner of psychoanalysis
stripper;a performer who provides erotic entertainment by undressing to music
commercial traveler;a salesman who travels to call on customers
henry tudor;(1457-1509) first tudor king of england from 1485 to 1509. head of the house of lancaster in the war of the roses. defeated richard iii at bosworth field and was proclaimed king. married the daughter of edward iv and so united the houses of york and lancaster
snoop;a secret listener to private conversations
light;a person regarded very fondly. 'the light of my life'
pornographer;someone who presents shows or sells writing or pictures that are sexually explicit in violation of the community mores
exboyfriend;a man who is no longer a woman's boyfriend
laotian;a member of a buddhist people inhabiting the area of the mekong river in laos and thailand and speaking the lao language. related to the thais
nativist;a philosopher who subscribes to nativism
cropper;small farmers and tenants
dybbuk;(jewish folklore) a demon that enters the body of a living person and controls that body's behavior
provost marshal;the supervisor of the military police
luxemburger;a native or inhabitant of luxembourg
scallywag;one who is playfully mischievous
materialist;someone who thinks that nothing exists but physical matter
committee member;a member of a committee
independent;a writer or artist who sells services to different employers without a long-term contract with any of them
sports announcer;an announcer who reads sports news or describes sporting events
bibliopolist;a dealer in secondhand books (especially rare or curious books)
fresher;a first-year undergraduate
pressman;a journalist employed to provide news stories for newspapers or broadcast media
testee;someone who is tested (as by an intelligence test)
guard;the person who plays the position of guard on a basketball team
weird;fate personified. one of the three weird sisters
bondsman;someone who signs a bond as surety for someone else
principal;the major party to a financial transaction. buys and sells for his own account
lucius cornelius sulla felix;roman general and dictator (138-78 bc)
fedor dostoyevsky;russian novelist (1821-1881)
shareowner;someone who holds shares of stock in a corporation
traitress;female traitor
lazarus;the person who jesus raised from the dead after four days in the tomb. this miracle caused the enemies of jesus to begin the plan to put him to death
plug ugly;someone who bullies weaker people
cotter;a peasant farmer in the scottish highlands
nasser;egyptian statesman who nationalized the suez canal (1918-1870)
nehru;(1889-1964) indian statesman and leader with gandhi in the struggle for home rule. was the first prime minister of the republic of india from 1947 to 1964
snitch;someone acting as an informer or decoy for the police
don;(british) teacher at a university of college (especially at cambridge or oxford)
lady killer;a man who takes advantage of women
night owl;a person who likes to be active late at night
warrantee;one to whom a warrant or guarantee is given
surrogate;a person appointed to represent or act on behalf of others
utahan;a resident of utah
ratiocinator;someone who reasons logically
sloganeer;someone who coins and uses slogans to promote a cause
signor;used as an italian courtesy title. can be prefixed to the name or used separately
rotarian;a member of a rotary club
lender;someone who lends money or gives credit in business matters
coiffeur;a man hairdresser
celebrity;a widely known person. 'he was a baseball celebrity'
arbiter;someone chosen to judge and decide a disputed issue
linkman;(formerly) an attendant hired to carry a torch for pedestrians in dark streets
political commissar;an official of the communist party who was assigned to teach party principles to a military unit
scaremonger;a person who spreads frightening rumors
grandpa;the father of your father or mother
committeewoman;a woman who is a member of a committee
servant girl;a girl who is a servant
intelligence officer;a person secretly employed in espionage for a government
idol;someone who is adored blindly and excessively
loafer;person who does no work
tout;a seller of shoddy goods
sea scout;a boy scout enrolled in programs for water activities
deviser;a person who makes plans
ship broker;an agent for the ship owner. obtains cargo and may arrange for its loading or discharge
lieder singer;a singer of lieder
etymologist;a lexicographer who specializes in etymology
kusan;a member of the north american indian people of oregon
apostle;an ardent early supporter of a cause or reform
state s attorney;a prosecuting attorney for a state
ingenue;an actress who specializes in playing the role of an artless innocent young girl
shepherdess;a woman shepherd
varuna;supreme cosmic deity. god of natural and moral law. ancient sky god
paiute;a member of either of two shoshonean peoples (northern paiute and southern paiute) related to the aztecs and living in sw us
joseph haydn;1732-1809
accomplice;someone who helps another person commit a crime
charlemagne;(742-814) king of the franks. conqueror of the lombards and saxons
father;the founder of a family. 'keep the faith of our forefathers'
uma;a benevolent aspect of devi. 'splendor'
bodybuilder;someone who does special exercises to develop the musculature
gopher;a zealously energetic person (especially a salesman)
midinette;a parisian salesgirl
official emissary;a member of a legation
edger;a person who puts finishing edges on a garment
rheumatic;a person suffering with rheumatism
pipe smoker;a smoker who uses a pipe
numen;a spirit believed to inhabit an object or preside over a place (especially in ancient roman religion)
tupi;a member of the south american indian people living in brazil and paraguay
ploughman;a man who plows
tartar;a member of the mongolian people of central asia who invaded russia in the 13th century
beloved;a beloved person. used as terms of endearment
egyptian;a native or inhabitant of egypt
majority leader;leader of the majority party in a legislature
manual laborer;someone who works with their hands
emptor;a person who buys
cultural attache;an attache who is a specialist in cultural matters
co ed;a female student at a coeducational college or university
math teacher;someone who teaches mathematics
persuader;someone who tries to persuade
supplanter;one who wrongfully or illegally seizes and holds the place of another
numskull;these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
dyaus;god of the sky
leibniz;1646-1716
artaxerxes ii;king of persia who subdued numerous revolutions and made peace with sparta (?-359 bc)
suicide;a person who kills himself intentionally
chinese deity;a deity worshipped by the ancient chinese
townee;(brit. informal) townsman unacquainted with country life especially a slick and flashy male city dweller
organ grinder;a street musician who plays a hand organ or hurdy-gurdy
advocate;a lawyer who pleads cases in court
skydiver;a person who jumps from a plane and performs various gymnastic maneuvers before pulling the parachute cord
buck private;an enlisted man of the lowest rank. 'our prisoner was just a private and knew nothing of value'
booster;a person who backs a politician or a team etc.. 'all their supporters came out for the game'. 'they are friends of the library'
double;someone who closely resembles a famous person (especially an actor). 'he could be gingrich's double'. 'she's the very image of her mother'
knight errant;a wandering knight travelling in search of adventure
promoter;someone who is an active supporter and advocate
limner;a painter of portraits
doctor;a licensed medical practitioner. 'i felt so bad i went to see my doctor'
dharma;basic principles of the cosmos. also: an ancient sage in hindu mythology worshipped as a god by some lower castes.
arthur seymour sullivan;english composer (1842-1900)
mime;an actor who communicates entirely by gesture and facial expression
politician;a person active in party politics
neonate;a baby from birth to four weeks
geophysicist;a specialist in geology
groupie;an enthusiastic young fan (especially a young woman who follows rock groups around)
von bismarck;(1815-1898) german statesman under whose leadership germany was united
michael faraday;the english physicist nd chemist who discovered electromagnetic induction (1791-1867)
officer;a member of a police force. 'it was an accident, officer'
old salt;a man who serves as a sailor
neurosurgeon;someone who does surgery on the nervous system (especially the brain)
oscan;an oscan-speaking member of an ancient people of campania
nonparticipant;a person who does not participate
drawee;the person (or bank) who is expected to pay a check or draft when it is presented for payment
undine;any of various water spirits
mystic;someone who believes in the existence of realities beyond human comprehension
coolidge;elected vice president and succeeded as 30th president of the united states when harding died in 1923 (1872-1933)
hodman;a laborer who carries supplies to masons or bricklayers
jackanapes;someone who is unimportant but cheeky and presumptuous
tagalog;a member of a people native to the philippines chiefly inhabiting central luzon around and including manila
poor man;a person who is very poor
creek;any member of the creek confederacy of muskhogean peoples (especially the muskogee) formerly living in georgia and alabama but now chiefly in oklahoma
faun;ancient italian deity in human shape, with horns, pointed ears and a goat's tail. equivalent to greek satyr
retiree;someone who has retired from active working
shah;title for the former hereditary monarch of iran
headliner;a performer who receives prominent billing
vulcan;(roman mythology) god of fire and metal working. counterpart of greek hephaestus
signaller;someone who communicates by signals
roughrider;a horseman skilled at breaking wild horses to the saddle
denizen;a person who lives in a particular place
down and out;a person who is destitute. 'he tried to help the down-and-out'
commentator;an expert who observes and comments on something
best man;the principal groomsman at a wedding
car mechanic;someone whose occupation is repairing and maintaining automobiles
scrooge;a selfish person who is unwilling to give or spend
spaceman;a person trained to travel in a spacecraft. 'the russians called their astronauts cosmonauts'
hired hand;a hired laborer on a farm or ranch. 'the hired hand fixed the railing'. 'a ranch hand'
research director;a supervisor in a research center
correspondent;a journalist employed to provide news stories for newspapers or broadcast media
military governor;the head of a government established by the military (as in a defeated country)
st andrew;disciple of jesus. brother of peter. patron saint of scotland
marriage broker;someone who arranges (or tries to arrange) marriages for others
atsugewi;a member of the north american indian people of the pit river valley in n california
renter;someone who pays rent to use land or a building owned by someone else. 'the landlord can evict a tenant who doesn't pay the rent'
john pierpont morgan;1837-1913
veteran;a serviceman who has seen considerable active service. 'the veterans laughed at the new recruits'
scoffer;someone who eats food rapidly and greedily
grandson;a male grandchild
pilgrim;journeys in foreign lands
rhinolaryngologist;a specialist in the disorders of the ear or nose or throat
townsman;a person from the same town as yourself: 'a fellow townsman'
welterweight;a boxer who weighs no more than 147 pounds
trinitarian;adherent of trinitarianism
hand;a card player in a game of bridge. 'we need a 4th hand for bridge'
prince charming;a suitor who fulfills the dreams of his beloved
transcendentalist;advocate of transcendentalism
commander;an officer in the airforce
handler;one who trains or exhibits animals
gregory i;(circa 540-604) the pope for whom gregorian chants were named
ugly duckling;an ugly or unpromising child who grows into a beautiful or worthy person
double dealer;a person who says one thing and does another
fancy woman;a woman who has an ongoing extramarital sexual relationship with a man
holdover;an official who remains in office after his term
debtor;someone who owes money
boot maker;a maker of boots
passive resister;a reformer who believes in passive resistance
pain;a bothersome annoying person. 'that kid is a terrible pain'
kiddy;a young child
fiddler;a musician who plays the violin
john philip sousa;a us bandmaster and composer of military marches (1854-1932)
mother s son;a male person. 'every mother's son who could walk was there'
tearaway;(british) a reckless and impetuous person
phoney;a person who professes beliefs and opinions that they do not hold
dakota;a member of the siouan people of the n mississippi valley. commonly called the sioux
celebrator;a person who is celebrating
administrative official;an official of a bureaucracy
mortal enemy;an enemy who wants to kill you
stooge;a victim of ridicule or pranks
earthling;an inhabitant of the earth
fire swallower;a performer who pretends to swallow fire
white trash;an offensive term for white people who are impoverished
life scientist;a scientist who studies living organisms
norn;any of the three fates or goddesses of destiny. identified with anglo-saxon wyrd. similar to greek moirae and roman parcae
stripling;a juvenile between the onset of puberty and maturity
subscriber;someone who contracts to receive and pay for a certain number of issues of a publication
vestal virgin;(roman mythology) one of the virgin priestesses consecrated to the roman goddess vesta and to maintaining the sacred fire in her temple
rastafarian;follower of rastafarianism
moderate;a person who takes a position in the political center
spiritual being;"an incorporeal being with powers to affect the course of human events"
miler;a runner in a one-mile race
utu;(sumerian) sun god. counterpart of akkadian shamash
art editor;a editor who is responsible for illustrations and layouts in printed matter
hatchet man;a professional killer
fancy man;someone who procures customers for whores (in england they call a pimp a ponce)
exotic dancer;a performer who provides erotic entertainment by undressing to music
south korean;a korean from south korea
instrumentalist;someone who plays a musical instrument (as a profession)
harpooner;someone who launches harpoons
bootblack;a person who polishes shoes and boots
chucker out;a person whose duty is to throw troublemakers out of a bar or public meeting
human dynamo;a highly energetic and indefatigable person
druid;a pre-christian priest among the celts of ancient gaul and britain and ireland
matrikin;one related on the mother's side
attache;a specialist assigned to the staff of a diplomatic mission
george herman ruth;(1895-1948) us professional baseball player famous for hitting home runs
tzarina;the wife or widow of a czar
inca;a member of the small group of quechuan people living in the cuzco valley in peru who established hegemony over their neighbors to create the great inca empire that lasted from about 1100 until the spanish conquest in the early 1530s
epistemologist;a specialist in epistemology
thane;a feudal lord or baron in scotland
light heavyweight;a wrestler who weighs 192-214 pounds
underling;someone subject to the authority or control of another
rhymster;a term of contempt for a poor poet. a maker of poor verses
moloch;god of the ammonites and phoenicians to whom parents sacrificed their children
trader;someone who purchases and maintains an inventory of goods to be sold
scorer;a logger who marks trees to be felled
marshal;(in some countries) a military officer of highest rank
gospeler;a preacher of the christian gospel
edward thatch;an english pirate who operated in the caribbean and off the atlantic coast of north america (died in 1718)
anna eleanor roosevelt;wife of franklin roosevelt (1884-1962)
pickup;a casual acquaintance. often made in hope of sexual relationships
aggressor;a confident assertive person who acts as instigator
jansen;roman catholic theologian (1585-1638)
sleuth;a detective who follows a trail
groundskeeper;someone who maintains the grounds (of an estate or park or athletic field)
piano player;a person who plays the piano
cornetist;a musician who plays the trumpet or cornet
gaius julius caesar octavianus;63 bc - 14 ad
mill agent;the responsible official at a mill that is under absentee ownership
simpson;american divorcee whose marriage to edward viii created a constitutional crisis leading to his abdication
st peter;disciple of jesus. regarded by catholics as the vicar of christ on earth
black belt;a person who attained the rank of expert in the martial arts (judo or karate)
sarawakian;a native or inhabitant of sarawak
ashur;(assyrian) chief god of the assyrians. god of military prowess and empire. identified with babylonian anshar
mourner;a person who is grieving over someone who has died
mediator;a negotiator who acts as a link between parties
ballerina;a female ballet dancer
peeler;a performer who provides erotic entertainment by undressing to music
next friend;a person who acts on behalf of an infant or disabled person (in law)
sociolinguist;a linguist who studies the social and cultural factors that influence linguistic communication
conveyancer;a lawyer who specializes in the business of conveyancing properties
football official;an official who enforces the rules at a football game
omnivore;a person who eats all kinds of foods
proposer;(parliamentary procedure) someone who makes a formal motion
handler;someone in charge of training an athlete or a team
pillar;a prominent supporter. 'he is a pillar of the community'
golf caddie;an attendant who carries the golf clubs for a player
wanton;lewd or lascivious woman
frog;a person of french descent
county agent;an advisor employed by the government to assist people in rural areas with methods of farming and home economics
richard ii;(1367-1400) king of england from 1377 to 1399. he suppressed the peasant's revolt in 1381 but his reign was marked by popular discontent and baronial opposition in parliament and he was forced to abdicate in 1399
master at arms;the senior petty officer. responsible for discipline aboard ship
pluralist;a philosopher who believes that no single explanation can account for all the phenomena of nature
drug user;someone who consumes drugs
sir robert walpole;(1676-1745) english whig statesman who (under george i) was effectively the first british prime minister
impresario;a sponsor who books and stages public entertainments
aviator;someone who operates and aircraft
jesus christ;a prophet of the first century (circa 8 bc - 29 ad). to christians he was both god and man--the messiah sent to save the human race from the sin it inherited through the fall of man
unmarried man;a man who has never been married
saleslady;a woman salesperson
saint benedict;italian monk who founded the benedictine order about 540 (480-547)
adjuster;one who investigates insurance claims or claims for damages and recommends an effective settlement
charmer;a person who charms others (usually by personal attractiveness)
housemother;a woman employed as a chaperon in a residence for young people
peon;a laborer who is obliged to do menial work
conscript;a serviceman who is drafted
flatmate;an associate who shares an apartment with you
music director;the person who leads a musical group
half breed;half-caste offspring of parents of different races (especially of white and indian parents)
counsellor;gives advice about personal problems
blond;a person with fair skin and hair
postmistress;a woman postmaster
gunsmith;someone who makes or repairs guns
peeping tom;a viewer who enjoys seeing the sex acts or sex organs of others
anshar;(babylonian) father of the gods. identified with assyrian ashur. in sumerian the name signifies 'the totality of the upper world'
running mate;a nominee for the lesser of two closely related political offices
savage;a cruelly rapacious person
south dakotan;a resident of south dakota
confidant;someone to whom private matters are confided
helpmate;a helpful partner
dogsbody;a domestic servant
lamaist;an adherent of lamaism (tibetan buddhism)
saint;model of excellence or perfection of a kind. one having no equal
graduate;a person who has received a degree from a school (high school or college or university)
middleman;someone who buys large quantities of goods and resells to merchants rather than to the ultimate customers
do nothing;person who does no work
gregory the great;(circa 540-604) the pope for whom gregorian chants were named
agni;god of fire. one of the 3 chief deities of the vedas
all arounder;a versatile person who is expert at many things. 'she's the best all-rounder they've seen in years'
honore balzac;french novelist. he portrays the complexity of 19th century french society (1799-1850)
paratrooper;a soldier in the paratroops
donee;the recipient of funds or other benefits
down easter;a resident of maine
parsee;a member of a monotheistic sect of zoroastrian origin. descended from the persians. now found in western india
bimbo;a young woman indulged by rich and powerful older men
blackmailer;a criminal who extorts money from someone by threatening to expose embarrassing information about them
strategist;an expert in strategy (especially in warfare)
supremacist;a person who advocates the supremacy of some particular group over all others
oncologist;a specialist in oncology
researcher;a scientist who devotes himself to doing research
insider;an officer of a corporation or others who have access to private information about the corporation's operations
instigator;a person who initiates a course of action
vaishnava;worshipper of vishnu
percussionist;a musician who plays percussion instruments
depositor;a person who has deposited money in a bank or similar institution
police chief;a policeman in charge of a precinct
estimator;an expert at calculation (or at operating calculating machines)
bachelor at arms;a knight of the lowest order. could display only a pennon
san marinese;a native or inhabitant of san marino
dud;(informal) someone who is unsuccessful
gambler;someone who risks loss or injury in the hope of gain or excitement
student nurse;a nurse in training who is undergoing a trial period
zeno;(ca 335-263 bc) greek philosopher who found the stoic school
investigator;a police officer who investigates crimes
edward vii;(1841-1910) king of england from 1901 to 1910. son of victoria. famous for his elegant sporting ways
ecuadorian;a native or inhabitant of ecuador
bionic woman;a human being whose body has been taken over in whole or in part by electromechanical devices. 'a cyborg is a cybernetic organism'
comrade;used as a term of address for those male persons engaged in the same movement. 'greetings, comrade!'
mandatory;the recipient of a mandate
shopwalker;an employee of a retail store who supervises sales personnel and helps with customer problems. 'a floorwalker is called a shopwalker in england'
baron;a british peer of the lowest rank
dwight eisenhower;as supreme commander of the allied expeditionary force he supervised the invasion of normandy and the defeat of nazi germany. 34th president of the united states (1890-1961)
policyholder;an insured person. the client in whose name an insurance policy is written
drum majorette;a female baton twirler who accompanies a marching band
sightseer;a tourist who is visiting sights of interest
child;a youthful male person. 'the baby was a boy'. 'she made the boy brush his teeth every night'. 'most soldiers are only boys in uniform'
marx;founder of modern communism. wrote the communist manifesto with engels in 1848. wrote das kapital in 1867 (1818-1883)
illinois;a member of the algonquian people formerly of illinois and regions to the west
prioress;the superior of a group of nuns
accuser;someone who imputes guilt or blame
tien pao;a member of the taoist trinity
surveyor;someone who conducts a statistical survey
endomorph;a heavy person with a soft and rounded body
wise guy;an upstart who makes conceited, sardonic, insolent comments
silent person;a person who does not talk
austin friar;one of the catholic hermits of saint augustine
shot;a person who shoots (as regards their ability). 'he is a crack shot'. 'a poor shooter'
hell rooster;someone who is a very fierce fighter
saddler;a maker and repairer and seller of equipment for horses
lens maker;a worker who makes glasses for remedying defects of vision
tatterdemalion;a dirty shabbily clothed urchin
awol;one who is away or absent without leave
suppliant;one praying humbly for something: 'a suppliant for her favors'
convalescent;a person who is recovering from illness
anaesthetist;a specialist who administers an anesthetic to a patient before he is treated
sophomore;a second-year undergraduate
careerist;a professional who follows a career
da;an official prosecutor for a judicial district
publicizer;someone who publicizes
fibber;someone who tells lies
serial murderer;someone who murders more than three victims one at a time in a relatively short interval
hesitator;one who hesitates (out of fear)
waif;a homeless child especially one forsaken or orphaned
paralegal;a person with specialized training who assists lawyers
husbandman;a person who operates a farm
seignior;a man of rank in the ancien regime
subscriber;someone who contributes (or promises to contribute) a sum of money
bondswoman;a female bound to serve without wages
hoodoo;a practitioner of voodoo
potawatomi;a member of the algonquian people originally of michigan and wisconsin
good guy;any person who is on your side
metallurgist;an engineer trained in the extraction and refining and alloying and fabrication of metals
ras tafari;(1892-1975) emperor of ethiopia. worshipped by rastafarians
suffragette;a woman advocate of women's right to vote
tollgatherer;someone employed to collect tolls
aristotelean;a follower of aristotle or an adherent of aristotelianism
chekhov;russian dramatist (1860-1904)
press photographer;a photographer who works for a newspaper
pygmy;any member of various peoples having an average height of less than five feet
momma;informal terms for a mother
working girl;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
tahitian;a native or inhabitant of tahiti
confidence man;a swindler who exploits the confidence of his victim
fagot;a disparaging term for an openly homosexual man
deserter;a person who abandons their duty (as on a military post)
thea;the titaness who was mother of helios and selene and eos in ancient mythology
gourmet;a person devoted to refined sensuous enjoyment (especially good food and drink)
buttinsky;a meddler who tends to butt in
cadet;a military trainee (as at a military academy)
stager;someone who supervises the physical aspects in the production of a show and who is in charge of the stage when the show is being performed
customer agent;a foreign purchaser who buys goods outright for resale
mythologist;an expert on mythology
familiar;a person who is frequently in the company of another. 'drinking companions'. 'comrades in arms'
ski jumper;a skier who leaps through the air (especially on a ski jump)
shi ite muslim;a member of the branch of islam that regards ali as the legitimate successor to mohammed and rejects the first three caliphs
librettist;author of words to be set to music
simeon;(old testament) the 2nd son of jacob and one of the 12 patriarchs of israel
lighterman;someone who operates a barge
jesuit;a member of the a roman catholic religious order founded by ignatus loyola in 1534
street fighter;a contestant who is very aggressive and willing to use underhand methods
progeny;the immediate descendants of a person. 'she was the mother of many offspring'. 'he died without issue'
behaviorist;a psychologist who subscribes to behaviorism
george herbert walker bush;vice president under reagan and 41st president of the united states (1924- )
roosevelt;wife of franklin roosevelt (1884-1962)
zambian;a native or inhabitant of zambia
bondman;a male slave
clovis i;king of the franks and founder of the frankish monarchy (466-511)
tuscan;a resident of tuscany
kelt;a member of a european people who occupied britain and spain and gaul in pre-roman times
arbitrageur;someone who engages in arbitrage (who purchases securities in one market for immediate resale in another in the hope of profiting from the price differential)
breadwinner;one whose earnings are the primary source of support for their dependents
stockholder;someone who holds shares of stock in a corporation
consignee;the person to whom merchandise is consigned
irridentist;an advocate of irredentism
cosmetic surgeon;a surgeon who beautifies the body (especially the face)
persona non grata;a diplomat who is unacceptable to the government to which he is sent
njord;chief of the vanir. god of the sea and winds and prosperity. father of frey and freya. sometimes subsumes teutonic nerthus
riding master;someone who teaches horsemanship
planter;the owner or manager of a plantation
chorine;a woman who dances in a chorus line
churchman;a clergyman or other person in religious orders
malfeasant;one guilty of malfeasance
diplomat;a person who deals tactfully with others
straight;a heterosexual person. someone having a sexual orientation to persons of the opposite sex
acquaintance;a person with whom you are acquainted. 'i have trouble remembering the names of all my acquaintances'. 'we are friends of the family'
couturier;someone who designs clothing
demosthenes;circa 385-322 bc
algonquin;a member of any of the north american indian groups speaking an algonquian language and originally living in the subarctic regions of e canada. many algonquian tribes migrated south into the woodlands from the mississippi river to the atlantic coast
pivot;the person in a line around whom the others wheel and maneuver
pro;an athlete who plays for pay
modiste;someone who makes or mends dresses
logger;a lumberman who cuts logs into lengths after the trees have been felled
scene stealer;an actor who draws more attention than other actors in the same scene. 'babies are natural scene-stealers'
sentry;a person employed to watch for something to happen
linendraper;(british) a retail dealer in yard goods
colonial;a resident of a colony
guest;a customer of a hotel or restaurant etc.
psephologist;a sociologist who studies election trends
pervert;a person whose behavior deviates from what is acceptable especially in sexual behavior
hosteller;a traveler who lodges in hostels: 'a youth hosteller'
groomsman;a male attendant of the bridegroom at a wedding
trappist;member of an order of monks noted for austerity and a vow of silence
churl;a selfish person who is unwilling to give or spend
arabian;an arabic speaking person who lives in arabia or n africa
jansenist;an advocate of jansenism
fire eater;a belligerent grouch
intimate;someone to whom private matters are confided
epimetheus;(greek mythology) brother of prometheus and father of pyrrha. despite prometheus's warning against gifts from zeus he accepted pandora as his wife
kore;daughter of zeus and demeter. made queen of the underworld by pluto in ancient mythology. identified with roman proserpina
agdistis;asiatic epithet for rhea or cybele
turner;a tumbler who is a member of a turnverein
plunger;someone who gambles extravagantly
wife;a married woman. a man's partner in marriage
trinity;the union of the father and son and holy ghost in one godhead
minos;son of zeus and europa. king of ancient crete. ordered daedalus to build the labyrinth. after death minos became a judge in the underworld
confucian;a believer in the teachings of confucius
foreign agent;a spy for a foreign country
teetotalist;a total abstainer
animal scientist;a specialist in the branch of biology dealing with animals
justiciary;(british) formerly a high judicial officer
harpist;someone who plays the harp
electrician;a person who installs or repairs electrical or telephone lines
einstein;physicist who formulated the special theory of relativity and the general theory of relativity (1879-1955)
copywriter;a person employed to write advertising or publicity copy
steward;one having charge of buildings or grounds or animals
anchor;a television reporter who coordinates a broadcast to which several correspondents contribute
teller;an official appointed to count the votes (especially in legislative assembly)
lutanist;a musician who plays the lute
ball boy;a boy who retrieves balls for tennis players
primigravida;a woman who is pregnant for the first time
enforcer;one whose job it is to execute unpleasant tasks for a superior
bornean;a native or inhabitant of borneo
pauper;a person who is very poor
adapter;a musician who adapts a composition for particular voices or instruments or for another style of performance
conan doyle;(1859-1930) english author who created sherlock holmes
male monarch;a male sovereign. ruler of a kingdom
psychologist;a scientist trained in psychology
donor;(medicine) someone who gives blood or tissue or an organ to be used in another person
daygirl;a day boarder who is a girl
jew;a person belonging to the worldwide group descended from the ancient israelites (or converted to it) and connected by cultural or religious ties
hulk;a very large person. impressive in size or qualities
savoyard;a resident of savoy
anesthetist;a specialist who administers an anesthetic to a patient before he is treated
pontiff;the head of the roman catholic church
party whip;a legislator appointed by the party to enforce discipline
cotenant;one of two or more tenants holding title to the same property
psychopath;someone with a sociopathic personality. a person with an antisocial personality disorder ('psychopath' was once widely used but has now been superseded by 'sociopath')
ballplayer;an athlete who plays baseball
gun;a professional killer who uses a gun
gillie;a young male attendant on a scottish highland chief
dutchman;a native or inhabitant of holland
purchaser;a person who buys
prince otto von bismarck;(1815-1898) german statesman under whose leadership germany was united
swindler;a person who swindles you by means of deception or fraud
charles franklin peirce;(1839-1914) a pioneer of pragmatism
esquire;(in medieval england) an attendant and shield bearer to a knight. a candidate for knighthood
dart player;someone who plays the game of darts
heathen;a person who does not acknowledge your god
bluestocking;a woman having literary or intellectual interests
ape;person who resembles a non-human primate
bumbler;someone who makes mistakes because of incompetence
cosmopolite;a sophisticated person who has travelled in many countries
doll;informal terms for a (young) woman
wench;informal terms for a (young) woman
student;a learned person (especially in the humanities). someone who by long study has gained mastery in one or more disciplines
sir;(british) a title used before the name of knight or baronet
arianist;an adherent of arianism (the belief that jesus christ was not truly god)
nautch girl;a professional dancing girl in india
skilled worker;a worker who has acquired special skills
yenta;a woman gossip
blacksmith;a smith who forges and shapes iron with a hammer and anvil
epicure;a person devoted to refined sensuous enjoyment (especially good food and drink)
wannabee;an aspiring young person. 'two executive hopefuls joined the firm'. 'the audience was full of madonna wannabes'
first rater;one who is first-rate
postman;a man who delivers the mail
physician;a licensed medical practitioner. 'i felt so bad i went to see my doctor'
bragi;god of poetry and music. son of odin
promisee;a person to whom a promise is made
newlywed;someone recently married
reconciler;someone who tries to bring peace
symbolist;a member of an artistic movement that expressed ideas indirectly via symbols
mineralogist;a scientist trained in mineralogy
carelian;a member of the finnish people living in karelia in nw european russia
divorced man;a man who is divorced from (or separated from) his wife
dodo;(informal) someone whose style is out of fashion
enterpriser;someone who organizes a business venture and assumes the risk for it
chauvinist;a person with a prejudiced belief in the superiority of his or her own kind
chaser;the person who is pursuing and trying to overtake someone. 'always before he had been able to outwit his pursuers'
seigneur;a man of rank in the ancien regime
chippewa;a member of an algonquian people who lived w of lake superior
gossip;a person given to gossiping
growler;a speaker whose voice sounds like a growl
franklin roosevelt;32nd president of the united states. elected four times. instituted new deal to counter the great depression and led country during world war ii (1882-1945)
seeker;someone making a search or inquiry. 'they are seekers after truth'
anglo american;an american who was born in england or whose ancestors were english
favourite son;a politician favored mainly in his or her home state
conjure man;a witch doctor who practices conjury
spade;ethnic slur. offensive name for black person
heel;someone who is morally reprehensible. 'you dirty dog'
tipster;one who sells advice about gambling or speculation
oceanid;(greek mythology) a daughter of the titans oceanus and tethys
sovereign;the ruler of a nation
dauber;an unskilled painter
practice teacher;a college student who is teaching under the supervision of a certified teacher in order to qualify for a degree in education
philologist;a humanist specializing in classical scholarship
amaterasu omikami;central deity of shinto. goddess personifying the sun and ancestress of the rulers of japan
crewman;a member of a work crew
politician;a schemer who tries to gain advantage in an organization in sly or underhanded ways
joseph smith;founded the mormon church in 1830
movie star;a star who plays leading roles in the cinema
lincoln;16th president of the united states. saved the union during the civil war and emancipated the slaves. was assassinated by booth (1809-1865)
flier;someone who operates and aircraft
gentleman s gentleman;a manservant who acts as a personal attendant to his employer. 'jeeves was bertie wooster's man'
becket;(1118-1170) archbishop of canterbury from 1162 to 1170. murdered following his opposition to henry ii concerning henry's attempts to control the clergy
exorciser;someone who practices exorcism
dacoit;(in india and burma) a member of an armed gang of robbers
bloke;(informal) a man who is (usually) old and/or eccentric
sundowner;(australia) a tramp who habitually arrives at sundown
boozer;a person who drinks alcohol to excess habitually
stewardess;a woman steward on an airplane
fiend;a cruel wicked and inhuman person
butterfly collector;an entomologist who specializes in the collection and study of butterflies and moths
fingerprint man;a specialist in identifying fingerprints
donna;an italian woman of rank
kraut;offensive terms for a person of german descent
charlatan;a flamboyant deceiver. one who attracts customers with tricks or jokes
burgher;a member of the middle class
remunerator;a person who pays money for something
bourbon;a reactionary politician in the united states (usually from the south)
hick;not very intelligent or interested in culture
noah webster;(1758-1843) american lexicographer
fellah;an agricultural laborer in arab countries
maharaja;a great raja. a hindu prince or king in india ranking above a raja
mars;(roman mythology) god of war and agriculture. father of romulus and remus. counterpart of greek ares
erwin schrodinger;(1887-1961) austrian physicist who discovered the wave equation
compiler;a person who compiles (or writes for) encyclopedias
experimenter;a research worker who conducts experiments
cochimi;a member of a north american indian people living in central baja california
crew member;a member of a flight crew
extra;a minor actor in crowd scenes
top banana;the most important person in a group or undertaking
ostyak;a member of the nomadic ugrian people living in nw siberia (east of the ural mountains)
temp;a worker especially in an office hired on a temporary basis
senegalese;a native or inhabitant of senegal
ungrateful person;a person who shows no gratitude
motherfucker;(obscene) insulting terms of address
eleanor roosevelt;wife of franklin roosevelt (1884-1962)
rugged individualist;an advocate of capitalism
lorelei;a siren of german legend who lured boatmen in the rhine to destruction
universal agent;someone authorized to transact every kind of business for the principal
taracahitian;a member of a group of peoples of mexico
man jack;a single individual. 'every man jack'
indonesian;a native or inhabitant of indonesia
logomachist;someone give to disputes over words
coordinator;someone whose task is to see that work goes harmoniously
phoebe;a titaness who became identified with artemis as goddess of the moon
conductress;a woman conductor
noblewoman;a woman of aristocratic family
brage;god of poetry and music. son of odin
haji;a pilgrim who journeys to mecca
client;a person who seeks the advice of a lawyer
aviatress;a woman aviator
jehovah;a name for the old testament god as transliterated from the hebrew yhvh
albert edward;(1841-1910) king of england from 1901 to 1910. son of victoria. famous for his elegant sporting ways
arguer;someone who engages in debate
toady;a person who tries to please someone in order to gain a personal advantage
grimm;the older of the two grimm brothers remembered best for their fairy stories. also author of grimm's law describing consonant changes in germanic languages (1785-1863)
bobbysocker;an adolescent girl wearing bobby socks (common in the 1940s)
cantor;the official of a synagogue who conducts the liturgical part of the service and sings or chants the prayers intended to be performed as solos
blood brother;a male sworn (usually by a ceremony involving the mingling of blood) to treat another as his brother
exponent;a person who pleads for a cause or idea
pseudo;a person who makes deceitful pretenses
midshipman;a temporary rank held by young naval officers in training
horseback rider;a man skilled in equitation
old master;a great european painter prior to 19th century
rambler;a person who takes long walks in the country
arthur;a legendary king of the britons (possibly based on a historical figure in the 6th century but the story has been retold too many times to be sure). said to have led the knights of the round table at camelot
snooper;a secret listener to private conversations
eschatologist;a theologian who specializes in eschatology
fox hunter;a mounted hunter who follows the hounds in pursuit of a fox
entertainer;a person who tries to please or amuse
left hander;a person who uses the left hand with greater skill than the right. 'their pitcher was a southpaw'
arianrhod;(welsh) goddess famous for her beauty. mother of dylan
parasite;a follower who hangs around in hope of gain or advantage
pansy;a timid man or boy considered childish or unassertive
ranker;(british) a commissioned officer who has been promoted from enlisted status
participant;a person who participates in or is skilled at some game
promulgator;one who promulgates laws (announces a law as a way of putting it into execution)
ancestress;a woman ancestor
helios;(greek mythology) ancient god of the sun. drove his chariot across the sky each day. identified with roman sol
honduran;a native or inhabitant of honduras
shepherd;a clergyman who watches over a group of people
interior decorator;a person who specializes in designing architectural interiors and their furnishings
forest god;one of a class of woodland deities. attendant on bacchus. identified with roman fauns
intern;an advanced student or graduate in medicine gaining supervised practical experience ('houseman' is a british term)
boy scout;a boy who is a member of the boy scouts of america
muscleman;a bully employed by a gangster
orthodontist;a dentist specializing in the prevention or correction of irregularities of the teeth
doctor;a person who holds ph.d. degree from an academic institution. 'she is a doctor of philosophy in physics'
second hand;an intermediate person. used in the phrase 'at second hand'. 'he could learn at second hand from books'
shirker;a person who shirks their work or duty
head of household;the head of family or tribe
lir;(irish) the sea personified. father of manannan. corresponds to welsh llyr
arikara;a member of the caddo people who formerly lived in the dakotas west of the missouri river
rwandan;a native or inhabitant of rwanda
resident commissioner;the representative of puerto rico in the us house of representatives
counsel to the crown;a barrister selected to serve as counsel to the british rulera barrister selected to serve as counsel to the british ruler
cow;a large unpleasant woman
mantrap;a very attractive or seductive looking woman
christian;a religious person who believes jesus is the christ and is a member of a christian denomination
hunger marcher;an unemployed person who participates in a hunger march
hosier;a tradesman who sells hosiery (and (in england) knitwear)
bandleader;the leader of a dance band
frigga;goddess of the heavens and married love. wife of odin
referee;someone who reads manuscripts and judges their suitability for publication
lunatic;an insane person
samoan;a native or inhabitant of the samoan islands
saint matthew the apostle;disciple of jesus. author of the first gospel
goaltender;the hockey player assigned to protect the goal
countryman;a man from your own country
kiowa;a member of a tanoan people living in the sw us
northerner;an american who lives in the north (especially during the american civil war)
superior;one of greater rank or station or quality
veterinary;a doctor who practices veterinary medicine
pansy;a disparaging term for an openly homosexual man
abstainer;practices self denial as spiritual discipline
cardsharper;a professional card player who makes a living by cheating at card games
electrotherapist;someone who specializes in the treatment of disease by electricity
polyglot;a person who speaks more than one language
mother s boy;a boy excessively attached to his mother. lacking normal masculine interests
scorekeeper;an official who records the score during the progress of a game
woman hater;someone who dislikes women in particular
slave;a person who is owned by someone
party;a person involved in legal proceedings. 'the party of the first part'
office bearer;(british) the person who holds an office
televangelist;an evangelist who conducts services on television
bunny girl;a young waitress in a night club whose costume includes a rabbit-tail and ears
specialist;an expert who is devoted to one occupation or branch of learning
little sister;a younger sister
barbarian;a member of an uncivilized people
harlot;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
housebuilder;someone who builds houses as a business
hearer;someone who listens attentively
compositor;one who sets written material into type
statistician;a mathematician who specializes in statistics
sketcher;someone who draws sketches
j p morgan;1837-1913
mother s daughter;a daughter who is favored by and similar to her mother
middlebrow;(informal) someone who is neither a highbrow nor a lowbrow
saracen;(historically) a member of the nomadic people of the syrian and arabian deserts at the time of the roman empire
civil servant;a public official who is a member of the civil service
kolam;a member of a formerly tribal people now living in south central india
examiner;someone who administers a test to determine your qualifications
punter;someone who propels a boat with a pole
shopper;someone who visits stores in search of articles to buy
stock trader;someone who buys and sells stock shares
payer;a person who pays money for something
new hampshirite;a resident of new hampshire
discussant;a member of a panel
sun god;a god associated with the sun
herald;(formal) a person who announces important news. 'the chieftain had a herald who announced his arrival with a trumpet'
postgraduate;a student who continues studies after graduation
gadfly;a persistently annoying person
frontbencher;a member of the house of commons of great britain who is a minister or an ex-minister
loader;a laborer who loads and unloads vessels in a port
pork butcher;(british) a vendor of pork and products made from pork
foreign minister;a government minister for foreign relations
passenger;a person traveling in a vehicle (a boat or bus or car or plane or train etc) who is not operating it
nikolai lenin;russian founder of the bolsheviks and leader of the russian revolution and first head of the ussr (1870-1924)
conductor;the person who collects fares on a public conveyance
wretch;performs some wicked deed
flag waver;an extreme bellicose nationalist
trainbearer;one who holds up the train of a gown or robe on a ceremonial occasion
amazon;a large strong and aggressive woman
predator;someone who attacks in search of booty
bearer;one of the mourners carrying the coffin at a funeral
mithras;ancient persian god of light and truth. sun god
homo erectus;a member of an extinct species of human being. probably an ancestor of modern man
maiden;an unmarried girl (especially a virgin)
book seller;a dealer in books. a merchant who sells books
pediatrist;a specialist in the care of babies
stalking horse;a candidate put forward to divide the opposition or to mask the true candidate
rama;avatar of vishnu. any of three incarnations: ramachandra or parashurama or balarama
dimwit;(informal) a stupid incompetent person
bach;(1685-1750) german composer and organist
sodbuster;a person who operates a farm
petitioner;one praying humbly for something: 'a suppliant for her favors'
rene descartes;1596-1650
freebooter;someone who takes spoils or plunder (as in war)
tactician;a person who is skilled at planning tactics
vincent van gogh;1853-1890
adams;2nd president of the united states (1735-1826)
saint nicholas;the legendary patron saint of children
jeweler;someone who makes jewelry
contestant;a person who dissents from some established policy
backup;someone who takes the place of another (as when things get dangerous or difficult). 'the star had a stand-in for dangerous scenes'. 'we need extra employees for summer fill-ins'
abecedarian;a novice learning the rudiments of some subject
warmonger;a person who advocates war or warlike policies
hesperides;group of 3 to 7 nymphs who guarded the golden apples that gaea gave as a wedding gift to hera
chief of staff;the senior officer of a service of the armed forces
sirdar;an important person in india
fieldhand;a hired hand on a farm
memorizer;a person who learns by rote
poacher;someone who hunts or fishes illegally on the property of another
luncher;someone who is eating lunch
gros ventre;a member of the sioux people formerly inhabiting an area along the missouri river in w north dakota
steward;the ship's officer who is in charge of provisions and dining arrangements
job candidate;an applicant who is being considered for a job
hermann;german hero. leader at the battle of teutoburger wald in 9 ad (circa 18 bc - 19 ad)
illusionist;someone who performs magic tricks to amuse an audience
tough;an aggressive young criminal
organ donor;someone from whom an organ is taken for transplantation
manservant;a man servant
hispanic american;an american whose first language was spanish
non christian priest;a spiritual leader in a non-christian religion
whig;a supporter of the american revolution
sapper;a military engineer who lays or detects and disarms mines
shamash;(assyrian and babylonian) the chief sun god. drives away winter and storms and brightens the earth with greenery. drives away evil and brings of justice and compassion
war god;a god worshipped as giving victory in war
ethnologist;an anthropologist who studies ethnology
stickler;someone who insists on something. 'a stickler for promptness'
piltdown hoax;a supposedly primitive man later proven to be a hoax
descendant;a person considered as descended from some ancestor or race
mate;the officer below the master on a commercial ship
cupid;(roman mythology) god of love. counterpart of greek eros
enologist;a specialist in wine making
calapuya;a member of the north american indian people of the wilamette basin in oregon
sun king;(1638-1715) king of france from 1643 to 1715. his long reign was marked by the expansion of french influence in europe and by the magnificence of his court and the palace of versailles
lineman;one of the players on the line of scrimmage
prohibitionist;opposes intoxicating beverages
television newscaster;someone who reports news stories via television
doofus;(informal) a stupid incompetent person
bechuana;a member of a bantu people living chiefly in botswana and western south africa
frenchwoman;a native or inhabitant of france
poof;a disparaging term for an openly homosexual man
beadle;a minor parish official who serves as an usher and preserves order at services
dressmaker;someone who makes or mends dresses
valedictorian;the student with the best grades who delivers the valedictory at graduation
sporting man;someone who leads a merry existence. especially a gambler on the outcome of sporting events
impostor;a person who makes deceitful pretenses
kentuckian;a resident of kentucky
gottfried wilhelm leibniz;1646-1716
sob sister;a journalist who specializes in sentimental stories
townsman;a resident of a town or city
perjurer;a person who deliberately gives false testimony
hoder;a blind god. misled by loki he kills balder by throwing a bough of mistletoe
mountain man;someone who lives on the frontier
speleologist;a person who explores caves
unknown;anyone who does not belong in the environment in which they are found
muhammedan;a believer or follower of islam
foot doctor;a specialist in care for the feet
visigoth;a member of the western group of goths who sacked rome and created a kingdom in present-day spain and southern france
bagger;a worker who packs things into containers
line backer;a defensive football player who takes a position close behind the linemen
forerunner;a person who goes before or announces the coming of another
detractor;one who disparages or belittles the worth of something
perpetrator;someone who perpetrates wrongdoing
prince of wales;the male heir apparent of the british sovereignthe male heir apparent of the british sovereign
empress;a woman emperor or the wife of an emperor
arrowsmith;a maker of arrows
violator;someone who violates the law
huntress;a woman hunter
gondolier;a (venetian) boatman who propels a gondola
princess royal;the eldest daughter of a british sovereign
role model;someone worthy of imitation. 'every child needs a role model'
drug peddler;someone who sells illegal drugs
cree;a member of an algonquian people living in central canada
walking delegate;a union representative who visits workers at their jobs to see whether agreements are observed
calapooya;a member of the north american indian people of the wilamette basin in oregon
auditor;someone who listens attentively
looney;someone deranged and possibly dangerous
customer;someone who pays for goods or services
gamecock;someone who is a very fierce fighter
alcoholic;a person who drinks alcohol to excess habitually
communicator;a person who communicates with others
escapologist;someone who is expert in the art of escaping
english teacher;someone who teaches english
durga;goddess of war. a malevolent aspect of devi. 'the inaccessible'
male chauvinist;a man with a chauvinistic belief in the inferiority of women
dyspeptic;a person suffering from indigestion
founding father;a person who founds or establishes some institution. 'george washington is the father of his country'
lamplighter;(when gas was used for streetlights) a person who lights and extinguishes streetlights
neoliberal;a liberal who subscribes to neoliberalism
grouch;a bad-tempered person
despoiler;someone who takes spoils or plunder (as in war)
princess;a female member of a royal family other than the queen (especially the daughter of a sovereign)
edward viii;(1894-1972) king of england and ireland in 1936. his marriage to wallis warfield simpson created a constitutional crisis leading to his abdication
cajun;a louisianian descended from acadian immigrants from nova scotia ('cajun' comes from 'acadian')
good for nothing;an idle worthless person
nomad;a member of a people how have no permanent home but move about according to the seasons
landscape architect;someone who arranges features of the landscape or garden attractively
secretary;a person who is head of an administrative department of government
theia;the titaness who was mother of helios and selene and eos in ancient mythology
savior;a prophet of the first century (circa 8 bc - 29 ad). to christians he was both god and man--the messiah sent to save the human race from the sin it inherited through the fall of man
rich person;a person who possesses great material wealth
manufacturer;someone who manufactures something
registrar;someone responsible for keeping records
roadman;a salesman who travels to call on customers
operative;a person secretly employed in espionage for a government
queen;a female sovereign ruler
gal;(informal) alliterative term for girl (or woman)
good spirit;(greek) a benevolent spirit
blaise pascal;french mathematician and philosopher. invented an adding machine. contributed (with fermat) to the theory of probability (1623-1662)
tallyman;(brit) one who sells goods on the installment plan
compeer;a person who is of equal standing with another in a group
whoremaster;a prostitute's customer
big sister;an older sister
yeoman;officer in the (ceremonial) bodyguard of the british monarch
prophet;someone who speaks by divine inspiration. someone who is an interpreter of the will of god
guttersnipe;a child who spends most of his time in the streets especially in slum areas
wrangler;someone who argues noisily or angrily
puppy;an inexperienced young person
secretary of health and human services;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of health and human services. 'the first secretary of health and human services was patricia roberts harris who was appointed by carter'
bunter;a batter who bunts
mail carrier;a man who delivers the mail
aesthetician;a philosopher who specializes in the nature of beauty
hatcheck girl;a female checker
belle;a young woman who is the most charming and beautiful of several rivals. 'she was the belle of the ball'
sulla;roman general and dictator (138-78 bc)
hound;someone who is morally reprehensible. 'you dirty dog'
road mender;a worker who repairs roads
bibliographer;someone trained in compiling bibliographies
believer;a person who has religious faith
boche;offensive terms for a person of german descent
syphilitic;a person suffering from syphilis
alan shepard;made the first us suborbital rocket-powered flight in 1961
saracen;(when used broadly) any arab
shoofly;(informal) an undercover police officer who investigates other policemen
lachesis;the fate who determines the length of the thread of life. identified with roman decuma
drunken reveler;someone who engages in drinking bouts
momos;god of blame and mockery
therapist;a person skilled in a particular type of therapy
casualty;someone injured or killed in an accident
gynecologist;a specialist in gynecology
gumshoe;(informal) someone who is a detective
striker;someone receiving intensive training for a naval technical rating
male sibling;a sibling who is male
exwife;a woman who was formerly a particular man's wife. 'all his exes live in texas'
cretin;a person of subnormal intelligence
keynes;english economist who advocated the use of government monetary and fiscal policy to maintain full employment without inflation (1883-1946)
moralist;a philosopher who specializes in morals and moral problems
baptist;follower of baptistic doctrines
glasscutter;someone who cuts or grinds designs on glass
constructor;someone who contracts for and supervises the construction of a building
john lackland;(1167-1216) youngest son of henry ii and king of england from 1199 to 1216. succeeded to the throne on the death of his brother richard i. lost his french possessions. in 1215 john was compelled by the barons to sign the magna carta
rat catcher;a person whose job is to destroy or drive away vermin
subaltern;a british commissioned army officer below the rank of captain
counselor at law;a lawyer who pleads cases in court
ranch hand;a hired had on a ranch
oyabun;a japanese supervisor
masseur;a female massager
ballyhoo artist;someone who uses exaggerated or lurid material in order to gain public attention
cheremiss;a member of a rural finnish people living in e russia
heir presumptive;a person who expects to inherit but whose right can be defeated by the birth of a nearer relative
gymnosophist;member of a hindu sect practicing gymnosophy (especially nudism)
waver;someone who communicates by waving
james;1842-1910
versifier;a writer of poems
postponer;someone who postpones work (especially out of laziness or habitual carelessness)
gambian;a native or inhabitant of gambia
jewelry maker;someone who makes jewelry
author;writes (books or stories or articles or the like) professionally (for pay)
lyndon johnson;36th president of the united states. was elected vice president and succeeded kennedy when kennedy was assassinated (1908-1973)
recruiting sergeant;a sergeant deputized to enlist recruits
counsellor;someone who has supervisory duties at a summer camp
parliamentarian;an elected member of the british parliament: a member of the house of commons
demeter;(greek mythology) goddess of fertility and protector of marriage in ancient mythology. counterpart of roman ceres
dairy farmer;the owner or manager of a dairy
collier;someone who works in a coal mine
professor;someone who is a member of the faculty at a college or university
ullr;one of the aesir known for his beauty and skill with bow and skis. son of sif and stepson of thor
poseuse;a woman poseur
hired gun;a professional killer who uses a gun
compere;british term for someone who introduces television acts or cabarets etc
know it all;(informal) someone who thinks he knows everything and refuses to accept advice or information from others
dis;god of the underworld. counterpart of greek pluto
heritor;a person who is entitled by law or by the terms of a will to inherit the estate of another
gentleman;a manservant who acts as a personal attendant to his employer. 'jeeves was bertie wooster's man'
hardliner;someone who is uncompromising
rembrandt harmensz van rijn;1606-1669
unpleasant person;a person who is not pleasant or agreeable
bengali;a member of a people living in bangladesh and west bengali (mainly hindus)
wayfarer;goes on a trip
unemotional person;someone who is seemingly indifferent to emotions
bystander;a nonparticipant spectator
shirtmaker;a maker of shirts
dominie;a clergyman. especially a settled minister or parson
cupbearer;the attendant (usually an officer of a nobleman's household) whose duty is to fill and serve cups of wine
salutatorian;the graduating student with the second highest academic rank. delivers the opening address at graduation exercises
charter member;one of the original members when an organization was founded
cat s paw;a person used by another to gain an end
tot;a young child
nintu;a name under which ninkhursag was worshipped
pom;(australian and new zealand) a disparaging term for english immigrants to australia or new zealand
wordsworth;(1770-1850) a romantic british poet
amnesiac;a person suffering from amnesia
jazz musician;a musician who plays or composes jazz music
buddha;founder of buddhism. c 563-483 b.c.. worshipped as a god
guinea pig;a person who is subjected to experimental or other observational procedures. someone who is an object of investigation. 'the subjects for this investigation were selected randomly'. 'the cases that we studied were drawn from two different communities'
apiculturist;a farmer who keeps bees for their honey
gaffer;a person who exercises control over workers. 'if you want to leave early you have to ask the foreman'
great mother;great nature goddess of ancient phrygia in asia minor. counterpart of greek rhea and roman ops
president;the person who holds the office of head of state of the us government. 'the president likes to jog every morning'the person who holds the office of head of state of the us government. 'the president likes to jog every morning'
big businessman;a very wealthy or powerful businessman: 'an oil baron'
spick;ethnic slur. offensive terms for persons of latin american descent
skinhead;a young person who belongs to a british or american group that shave their heads and gather at rock concerts or engage in white supremacist demonstrations
programmer;a person who designs and writes and tests computer programs
craftsman;a professional whose work is consistently of high quality. 'as an actor he was a consummate craftsman'
palmer;journeys in foreign lands
crewman;any member of a ship's crew
visiting nurse;a nurse who is paid to visit the sick in their homes
colonel;a commissioned military officer in the us army or air force or marines who ranks above a lieutenant colonel and below a brigadier general
anapurna;wife of siva and a benevolent aspect of devi: goddess of plenty
bettor;someone who bets
emissary;someone sent on a mission to represent the interests of someone else
padrone;an employer who exploits italian immigrants in the u.s.
incubus;a male demon believed to lie on sleeping persons and to have sexual intercourse with sleeping women
war criminal;an offender who violates international law during times of war
crony;a close friend who accompanies his buddies in their activities
dissident;a person who dissents from some established policy
full cousin;the child of your aunt or uncle
undergraduate;a university student who has not yet received a first degree
looker;a very attractive or seductive looking woman
golfer;someone who plays the game of golf
reprobate;a person without moral scruples
aircraftman;a noncommissioned officer in the british royal air force
rotter;a person who is deemed to be despicable or contemptible. 'only a rotter would do that'. 'kill the rat'. 'throw the bum out'. 'you cowardly little pukes!'
lao tzu;chinese philosopher who founded taoism. 6th-century b.c.
nebo;(babylonian) god of wisdom and agriculture and patron of scribes and schools
booklover;someone who loves (and usually collects) books
riff;a berber living in northern morocco
word;the divine word of god. the second person in the trinity (incarnate in jesus)
male child;a youthful male person. 'the baby was a boy'. 'she made the boy brush his teeth every night'. 'most soldiers are only boys in uniform'
fencer;someone skilled at fencing
yahi;a member of an extinct north american indian people who lived in the pit river valley in n california
cardinal;(roman catholic church) one of a group of more than 100 prominent bishops in the sacred college who advise the pope and elect new popes
bantu;a member of any of a large number of linguistically related peoples of central and south africa
railroad man;an employee of a railroad
magician;one who practices magic or sorcery
investigator;a scientist who devotes himself to doing research
jagganath;an avatar of vishnu
out and outer;(slang) someone who is excellent at something
bogart;(1899-1957) american film actor
butterfingers;someone who drops things (especially one who cannot catch a ball)
raper;someone who forces another to have sexual intercourse
gregory;(1572-1585) the pope who introduced the modern calendar
temptress;a woman who is considered to be dangerously seductive
englishwoman;a woman who is a native or inhabitant of england
carroll;english author. charles dodgson was an oxford don of mathematics who is remembered for the children's stories he wrote under the pen name lewis carroll (1832-1898)
pet;a special loved one
louisianan;a resident of louisiana
victor;the contestant who wins the contest
speaker;someone who talks (especially someone who delivers a public speech)
squire;a man who attends or escorts a woman
secretary of state for the home department;the british cabinet minister who is head of the home office
working person;an employee who performs manual or industrial labor
surya;an important god. sun god or the sun worshipped as a god of light and warmth
scholarly person;a learned person (especially in the humanities). someone who by long study has gained mastery in one or more disciplines
wotan;supreme teutonic god. counterpart of norse odin and anglo-saxon woden
rat;a person who is deemed to be despicable or contemptible. 'only a rotter would do that'. 'kill the rat'. 'throw the bum out'. 'you cowardly little pukes!'
shy person;someone who shrinks from familiarity with others
participant;takes part in an activity
inferior;one of lesser rank or station or quality
marduk;(babylonian) the chief babylonian god. his consort was sarpanitu
taskmistress;a woman taskmaster
bank clerk;an employee of a bank who receives and pays out money
hostage;a prisoner who is held by one party to insure that another party will meet specified terms
parent;a father or mother. one who begets or one who gives birth to or nurtures and raises a child. a relative who plays the role of guardian
fermentologist;a specialist in wine making
camper;someone living temporarily in a tent or lodge for recreation
bimetallist;an advocate of bimetallism
personage;a person whose actions and opinions strongly influence the course of events
norwegian;a native or inhabitant of norway
tobogganist;someone who rides a toboggan
doorman;someone who guards the entrance to a building
street arab;a homeless child who has been abandoned and roams the streets
ahura;(zoroastrianism) title for benevolent deities
cockscomb;a conceited dandy who is overly impressed by his own accomplishments
house servant;a household servant
host;the owner or manager of an inn
masseuse;a female massager
rummy;a chronic drinker
dueler;a person who fights duels
celt;a member of a european people who occupied britain and spain and gaul in pre-roman times
bad person;a person who does harm to others
partizan;an ardent and enthusiastic supporter of some person or activity
timur;mongolian ruler of samarkand who led his nomadic hordes to conquer an area from turkey to mongolia (1336-1405)
eagle scout;a boy scout how has earned many merit badges
eldest hand;the card player on the dealer's left
rock climber;a climber of vertical rock faces
president of the united states;the person who holds the office of head of state of the us government. 'the president likes to jog every morning'the person who holds the office of head of state of the us government. 'the president likes to jog every morning'
iosif vissarionovich dzhugashvili;russian soviet leader (1879-1953)
diver;someone who dives (into water)
tom;contemptuous name for a black man who is abjectly servile and deferential to whites
orderly;a soldier who serves as an attendant to a superior officer. 'the orderly laid out the general's uniform'
guardian;a person who cares for persons or property
nona;the fate who spins the thread of life. counterpart of greek clotho
pixy;(folklore) fairies that are somewhat mischievous
processor;someone who processes things (foods or photographs or applicants etc.)
procurer;someone who procures customers for whores (in england they call a pimp a ponce)
wigmaker;someone who makes and sells wigs
tapster;(british) the keeper of a public house
political hack;a politician who belongs to a small clique that controls a political party for private rather than public ends
stock raiser;farmer who breed or raises livestock
mannequin;a woman who wears clothes to display fashions. 'she was too fat to be a mannequin'
colonist;a person who settle in a new colony or moves into new country
nereus;a sea god son of pontus and gaea. lived in the depths of the sea with his wife doris and their daughters the nereids
mufti;a jurist who interprets muslim law
escort;a participant in a date. 'his date never stopped talking'
bearer;someone whose employment involves carrying something. 'the bonds were transmitted by carrier'
sade;(1740-1814) french soldier and writer whose descriptions of sexual perversion gave rise to the term 'sadism'
blunderer;someone who makes mistakes because of incompetence
pearler;a diver who searches for molluscs containing pearls
sorcerer;one who practices magic or sorcery
picador;the horseman who pricks the bull with a lance early in the bullfight to goad the bull and to make it keep its head low
edward teach;an english pirate who operated in the caribbean and off the atlantic coast of north america (died in 1718)
machiavelli;(1469-1527) a statesman of florence who advocated a strong central government
director;someone who supervises the actors and directs the action in the production of a show
player;a theatrical performer
extortioner;a criminal who extorts money from someone by threatening to expose embarrassing information about them
usher;an official doorkeeper as in a courtroom or legislative chamber
meliorist;a disputant who advocates reform
source;a person who supplies information
chemist;a scientist who specializes in chemistry
scotchwoman;a woman who is a scot
wrangler;a cowboy who takes care of the saddle horses
classmate;an acquaintance that you go to school with
beachcomber;a vagrant living on a beach
devi;mother goddess. supreme power in the universe. wife or embodiment of the female energy of siva having both beneficent and malevolent forms or aspects
francesco petrarca;an italian poet famous for love lyrics (1304-1374)
alto;a singer whose voice lies in the alto clef
quarter;an unspecified person. 'he dropped a word in the right quarter'
sculptor;an artist who creates sculptures
magnificio;a person of distinguished rank or appearance
luna;the goddess of the moon. counterpart of greek selene
abo;a dark-skinned member of a race of people living in australia when europeans arrived
socialite;a socially prominent person
highlander;a soldier in a scottish highland regiment
bride;a woman participant in her own marriage ceremony
physicist;a scientist trained in physics
vaquero;local names for a cowboy ('vaquero' is used especially in sw and c texas. 'buckaroo' is used especially in california)
messiah;the awaited king of the jews. the promised and expected deliverer of the jewish people
interviewee;a person who is interviewed
female aristocrat;a woman who is an aristocrat
extortionist;a criminal who extorts money from someone by threatening to expose embarrassing information about them
jeweller;someone in the business of selling jewelry
fedor dostoyevski;russian novelist (1821-1881)
bull;(informal) uncomplimentary terms for a policeman
linnaeus;1707-1778
speculator;someone who makes conjectures without knowing the facts
troglodyte;someone who dwells in a cave
suitor;a man who courts a woman
stand in;someone who takes the place of another (as when things get dangerous or difficult). 'the star had a stand-in for dangerous scenes'. 'we need extra employees for summer fill-ins'
boxer;a worker who packs things into containers
state senator;a member of a state senate
venture capitalist;a speculator who makes money available for innovative projects (especially in high technology)
sitter;a person engaged to care for children when the parents are not home
jainist;a believer in jainism
somali;a member of a tall dark people inhabiting somalia
king;1929-1968
pamphleteer;a writer of pamphlets (usually taking a partisan stand on public issues)
charge;a person committed to your care. 'the teacher led her charges across the street'
runner;someone who imports or exports without paying duties
dynamiter;a person who uses dynamite in a revolutionary cause
crimper;someone who tricks or coerces men into service as sailors or soldiers
plowwright;a workman who makes and repairs plows
barrie;(1860-1937) scottish dramatist
beethoven;(1770-1827) german composer
burundian;a native or inhabitant of burundi
prankster;someone who plays practical jokes on others
father;a person who founds or establishes some institution. 'george washington is the father of his country'
draftsman;a skilled worker who draws plans of buildings or machines
labourite;a member of the british labour party
deadbeat;someone who fails to meet a financial obligation
pantomimist;an actor who communicates entirely by gesture and facial expression
tatar;a member of the turkic-speaking people living from the volga to the ural mountains (the name has been attributed to many other groups)
alaskan;a resident of alaska
debauchee;a person (usually a man) who is morally unrestrained
catch;a person regarded as a good matrimonial prospect
dane;a native or inhabitant of denmark
comedienne;a female comedian
lovely;a very pretty girl who works as a photographer's model
adjudicator;a person who adjudicates
appointment;a person who is appointed to a job or position
populist;an advocate of democratic principles
mammy;an offensive term for a black nursemaid in the southern u.s.
patrician;a member of the aristocracy
hang glider;a rider of a hang glider
c. northcote parkinson;british historian noted for ridicule of bureaucracies (1909- )
premature baby;an infant that is born prematurely
crabby person;a quarrelsome grouch
vaudevillian;a performer who works in vaudeville
finalist;a contestant who reaches the final stages of a competition
prince of darkness;(judeo-christian religion) chief spirit of evil and adversary of god. tempter of mankind. master of hell
vietnamese;a native or inhabitant of vietnam
annamese;a native or inhabitant of vietnam
purveyor;someone who supplies provisions (especially food)
diplomatist;an official engaged in international negotiations
large person;a person of greater than average size
sleeping beauty;fairy story: princess under an evil spell who could be awakened only by a prince's kiss
diplomat;an official engaged in international negotiations
carnegie;(1835-1919) american industrialist and philanthropist
mechanic;a craftsman skilled in operating machine tools
striptease;a performer who provides erotic entertainment by undressing to music
philhellene;an admirer of greece and everything greek
illinoisan;a resident of illinois
roamer;someone who leads a wandering unsettled life
crack shot;someone skilled in shooting
complainant;a person who brings an action in a court of law
william henry harrison;9th president of the united states. caught pneumonia during his inauguration and died shortly after (1773-1841)
fiduciary;a person who holds assets in trust for a beneficiary. 'it is illegal for a fiduciary to misappropriate money for personal gain'
jinx;a person believed to bring bad luck to those around him
number cruncher;someone able to perform complex and lengthy calculations
pontiac;famous chief of the ottawa who led an unsuccessful rebellion against the british (1715-1769)
bacchant;a drunken reveller. a devotee of bacchus
saint thomas aquinas;italian (roman catholic) theologian remembered for his attempt to reconcile faith and reason in a comprehensive theology (1225-1274)
scout;someone who can find paths through unexplored territory
parachute jumper;a person who jumps from a plane and performs various gymnastic maneuvers before pulling the parachute cord
industry analyst;an analyst of conditions affecting a particular industry
line worker;an employee who works on an assembly line
guyanese;a native or inhabitant of guyana
trustee;a person to whom legal title to property is entrusted to use for another's benefit
cahita;a member of the taracahitian people of central mexico
threat;a person who inspires fear or dread. 'he was the terror of the neighborhood'
wichita;a member of the caddo people formerly living between kansas and central texas
contractor;(law) a party to a contract
lubber;an awkward stupid person
vayu;wind god
great russian;a member of the chief east slavonic people of soviet russia
smasher;a very attractive or seductive looking woman
boarder;a tenant in someone's house
pierre de fermat;french mathematician who founded number theory. contributed (with pascal) to the theory of probability (1601-1665)
date;a participant in a date. 'his date never stopped talking'
pythia;the priestess of apollo at delphi who transmitted the oracles
cross dresser;someone who adopts the dress or manner or sexual role of the opposite sex
individualist;a person who pursues independent thought or action
boy;a youthful male person. 'the baby was a boy'. 'she made the boy brush his teeth every night'. 'most soldiers are only boys in uniform'
gardener;someone employed to work in a garden
dresser;a wardrobe assistant for an actor
thomas henry huxley;1825-1895
sprinter;someone who runs a short distance at top speed
illegitimate child;the illegitimate offspring of unmarried parents
beautician;someone who works in a beauty parlor
transient;one who stays for only a short time. 'transient laborers'
distributor;someone who markets merchandise
insurance broker;an agent who sells insurance
fledgeling;any new participant in some activity
buddhist;one who follows the teachings of buddha
reformist;a disputant who advocates reform
cheyenne;a member of a north american indian people living on the western plains (now living in oklahoma and montana)
psychiatrist;a physician who specializes in psychiatry
pole;a native or inhabitant of poland
man;someone who serves in the armed forces. 'two men stood sentry duty'
tyr;god of war and strife and son of odin. identified with anglo-saxon tiu
whig;urged social reform in 19th century england
blue baby;an infant born with a bluish color. usually has a defective heart
dupe;a person who is tricked or swindled
neptune;(roman mythology) god of the sea. counterpart of greek poseidon
chairwoman;the officer who presides at the meetings of an organization
francois marie arouet;(1694-1778) french writer. author of 'candide'
eddington;1882-1944
philanderer;a man who likes many women and has short sexual relationships with them
knight templar;a knight of a religious military order established in 1118 to protect pilgrims and the holy sepulcher
victim;an unfortunate person who suffers from some adverse circumstance
lancastrian;a member (or supporter) of the house of lancaster
vepse;a member of a finnish people of russia
boob;an ignorant or foolish person
themis;the titaness who was goddess of justice in ancient mythology
elamite;a member of an ancient people living e of babylonia as early as 4000 bc
fire walker;someone who walks barefoot on burning coals
siren;a woman who is considered to be dangerously seductive
vitalist;one who believes in vitalism
cellist;some who plays a violoncello
moderator;someone who presides over a forum or debate
woman;(informal) a female person who plays a significant role (wife or mistress or girlfriend) in the life of a particular man. 'he was faithful to his woman'
ringer;(informal) a person who is almost identical to another
george vi;(1895-1952) king of great britain and ireland and emperor of india from 1936 to 1947. he succeeded edward viii
demetrius poliorcetes;son of antigonus cyclops and king of macedonia. he and his father were defeated at the battle of ipsus (337-283 bc)
red indian;a member of the race of people living in north america when europeans arrived
sonny boy;a male child (a familiar term of address to a boy)
familiar;a spirit (usually in animal form) that acts as an assistant to a witch or wizard
roosevelt;32nd president of the united states. elected four times. instituted new deal to counter the great depression and led country during world war ii (1882-1945)
announcer;reads news, commercials on radio or television
leading lady;actress who plays the leading female role
investor;someone who commits capital in order to gain financial returns
epigon;an inferior imitator of some distinguished writer or artist of musician
degenerate;a person whose behavior deviates from what is acceptable especially in sexual behavior
drum major;the leader of a marching band or drum corps
sorbian;a speaker of sorbian
sweetheart;any well-liked individual. 'he's a sweetheart'
sol;(greek mythology) ancient roman god. personification of the sun. counterpart of greek helios
wintun;a member of a north american indian people living in the sacramento valley in california
rigger;someone who rigs. 'he is an oil rigger'
baron;a nobleman (in various countries) of varying rank
dodderer;one who dodders from old age and weakness
popinjay;a vain and talkative person (chatters like a parrot)
demimondaine;a woman whose sexual promiscuity places her outside respectable society
mud digger;a laborer who digs ditches
sycophant;a person who tries to please someone in order to gain a personal advantage
invitee;a visitor to whom hospitality is extended
snatcher;someone who unlawfully seizes and detains a victim (usually for ransom)
doubter;a person who doubts truth of religion
autodidact;a person who is self-taught
elocutionist;a public speaker trained in voice production and gesture and delivery
security guard;a guard who keeps watch
arthur sullivan;english composer (1842-1900)
person;"a human being. 'there was too much for one person to do'"
tragedienne;an actress who specializes in tragic roles
red man;offensive terms for native americans
tribologist;a specialist in tribology
attacapan;a member of an indian people formerly living along the gulf coast of louisiana and texas
herman melville;1819-1891
baboo;used as a hindi courtesy title. equivalent to english 'mr'
gasbag;talks a great deal about uninteresting topics
yellow woman;offensive term for an oriental woman
discoverer;someone who is the first of observe something
salutatory speaker;the graduating student with the second highest academic rank. delivers the opening address at graduation exercises
damsel;a young unmarried woman
italian;a native or inhabitant of italy
war widow;a woman whose husband has died in war
paretic;a person afflicted with paresis (partial paralysis)
rembrandt van rijn;1606-1669
jimhickey;someone excellent of their kind. 'he's a jimdandy of a soldier'
slovenian;a native or inhabitant of slovenia
czar;a male monarch or emperor (especially of russia prior to 1917)
stylist;an artist who is a master of a particular style
soaker;a person who drinks alcohol to excess habitually
man in the street;an average person
hijacker;a holdup man who stops a vehicle and steals from it
ass;a pompous fool
regulator;a official responsible for control and supervision of a particular activity or area of public interest
infidel;a person who does not acknowledge your god
sporting lady;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
tuareg;a member of a nomadic berber people of the sahara
checker;an attendant who checks coats or baggage
shipmate;an associate on the same ship with you
patricide;a person who murders their father
screwball;a whimsically eccentric person
peacenik;someone who prefers negotiations to armed conflict in the conduct of foreign relations
peri;(persian folklore) a supernatural being descended from fallen angels and excluded from paradise until penance is done
mountaineer;someone who climbs mountains
pm;the person who holds the position of head of state in england
jean cauvin;french-born swiss theologian whose tenets defined presbyterianism (1509-1564)
avatar;the manifestation of a hindu deity (especially vishnu) in human or superhuman or animal form. 'the buddha is considered an avatar of the god vishnu'
maquis;a guerrilla fighter in the french underground in world war ii
floorwalker;an employee of a retail store who supervises sales personnel and helps with customer problems. 'a floorwalker is called a shopwalker in england'
rescuer;someone who saves something from danger or violence
reveller;one who shares in a noisy festival
novice;someone new to a field or activity
communicant;a person entitled to receive communion
armourer;an enlisted man responsible for the upkeep of small arms and machine guns etc.
optimist;a person disposed to take a favorable view of things
environmentalist;someone who works to protect the environment from destruction or pollution
jumper;an athlete who competes at jumping
exhibitioner;someone who organizes an exhibit for others to see
passerby;a person who passes by casually or by chance
archduchess;a wife or widow of an archduke or a princess of the former ruling house of austria
peeress;a woman of aristocratic family
hesitater;one who hesitates (out of fear)
lieutenant junior grade;an officer holding a commissioned rank in the us navy or coast guard. below lieutenant and above ensign
houseguest;a guest entertained in your house
shakspere;1564-1616
regicide;someone who commits regicide. the killer of a king
vestrywoman;a woman who is a member of a church vestry
cherokee;a member of an iroquoian people formerly living in the appalachian mountains but now chiefly in oklahoma
blasphemer;a person who speaks disrespectfully of sacred things
marchioness;a noblewoman ranking below a duchess and above a countess
reb;(informal) 'johnny' was applied as a nickname for confederate soldiers by the federal soldiers in the american civil war. 'grayback' derived from their gray confederate uniforms
dummy;a person who does not talk
sir isaac newton;english mathematician and physicist. remembered for developing the calculus and for his law of gravitation and his three laws of motion (1642-1727)
commander;an officer in command of a military unit
bacchanal;a drunken reveller. a devotee of bacchus
expressionist;an artist who is an adherent of expressionism
faqir;a muslim or hindu mendicant monk who is regarded as a holy man
imperialist;a believer in imperialism
honor guard;an escort for a distinguished guest or for the casket at a military funeral
extrovert;a person concerned more with practical realities than with inner thoughts and feelings
james madison;4th president of the united states. member of the constitutional congress and recorder at the constitutional convention in 1776. helped frame the bill of rights (1751-1836)
partygoer;someone who is attending a party. 'the hall was crowded with an overflow of partygoers'
deacon;a protestant layman who assists the minister
thomas hunt morgan;u.s. biologist who formulated the chromosome theory of heredity
younker;a young person (especially a young man or boy)
newspaper critic;a critic who writes a column for the newspapers
castaway;a person who is rejected (from society or home)
military chaplain;a chaplain in one of the military services
king of england;the king of england
aviatrix;a woman aviator
tinsmith;someone who makes or repairs tinware
wonder woman;a woman who can be a successful wife and have a professional career at the same time
dispatcher;a railroad employer who is in charge of a rail yard
shepard;made the first us suborbital rocket-powered flight in 1961
isaac;the second old testament patriarch. son of abraham and sarah. father of jacob and esau
landlubber;an inexperienced sailor. a sailor on the first voyage
wilhelm karl grimm;the younger of the two grimm brothers remembered best for their fairy stories (1786-1859)
gregory xiii;(1572-1585) the pope who introduced the modern calendar
richard iii;(1452-1485) king of england from 1483 to 1485. seized the throne from his nephew edward v who was confined to the tower of london and murdered. his reign ended when he was defeated by henry tudor (later henry vii) at the battle of bosworth field
rebecca rolfe;a powhatan indian woman (the daughter of powhatan) who befriended the english at jamestown and is said to have saved captain john smith's life (1595-1617)
marxist;emotionally charged terms used to refer to extreme radicals
joseph henry;(1791-1878) american physicist who studied electromagnetic phenomena
lapidary;an expert on precious stones and the art of cutting and engraving them
penutian;a member of a north american indian people speaking one of the penutian languages
lazybones;(informal) a lazy person
voluptuary;a person addicted to luxury and pleasures of the senses
half brother;a son of your stepparent by a former marriage
playgoer;someone who attends the theater
hugo;(1802-1885) leader of the romantic movement in france
unskilled person;a person who lacks technical training
foster parent;a person who acts as parent and guardian for a child in place of the child's natural parents but without legally adopting the child
king arthur;a legendary king of the britons (possibly based on a historical figure in the 6th century but the story has been retold too many times to be sure). said to have led the knights of the round table at camelot
political leader;a person active in party politics
exhibitor;someone who organizes an exhibit for others to see
amhara;a member of the semitic speaking people of northern ethiopia
edward sapir;(1884-1939) anthropologist and linguist. studied languages of north american indians
frau;a married german woman. used as a title equivalent to mrs. in english
standard bearer;the soldier who carries the standard of the unit in military parades or in battle
operating surgeon;a physician who specializes in surgery
plowboy;a boy who leads the animals that draw a plow
fates;a group of 3 goddesses of destiny
dogmatist;an stubborn person of arbitrary or arrogant opinions
fatty;a rotund individual
commander;someone in an official position of authority who can command or control others
police captain;a policeman in charge of a precinct
margarete gertrud zelle;dutch dancer who was executed by the french as a german spy in world war i (1876-1917)
kriss kringle;the legendary patron saint of children
templar;a knight of a religious military order established in 1118 to protect pilgrims and the holy sepulcher
famulus;a close attendant (as to a scholar)
actuary;someone versed in the collection and interpretation of numerical data (especially someone who uses statistics to calculate insurance premiums)
geiger;german physicist who developed the geiger counter (1882-1945)
psychotherapist;a therapist who deals with mental and emotional disorders
regular;a dependable follower (especially in party politics). 'he is one of the party regulars'
roarer;someone who communicates vocally in a very loud voice
cordon bleu;a chef famous for his great skill
game warden;a person employed to take care of game and wildlife
galileo;italian astronomer and mathematician. demonstrated that different weights descend at the same rate. perfected the refracting telescope that enabled him to make many discoveries (1564-1642)
argentinian;a native or inhabitant of argentina
schoolfellow;an acquaintance that you go to school with
dry cleaner;the operator of dry-cleaning establishment
charwoman;a human female who does housework. 'the char will clean the carpet'
adventuress;a woman adventurer
goatherder;a person who tends a flock of goats
arbitrager;someone who engages in arbitrage (who purchases securities in one market for immediate resale in another in the hope of profiting from the price differential)
theorist;someone who theorizes (especially in science or art)
cashier;an employee of a bank who receives and pays out money
serologist;a specialist in immunology
surgeon;a physician who specializes in surgery
honey;a beloved person. used as terms of endearment
siberian;a native or inhabitant of siberia
commander in chief;the officer who holds the supreme command. 'in the u.s. the president is the commander in chief'
plebeian;one of the common people
ropedancer;an acrobat who performs on a rope stretched at some height above the ground
daredevil;a reckless impetuous irresponsible person
facilitator;someone who makes progress easier
anthologist;an editor who makes selections for an anthology
psalmist;a composer of sacred songs. 'david is called the psalmist because he is believed to be the author of the book of psalms
utilitarian;someone who believes that the value of a thing depends on its utility
hairdresser;someone who cuts or beautifies hair
paddler;someone paddling a canoe
matrilineal sib;one related on the mother's side
nymphomaniac;a woman with abnormal sexual desires
sandboy;(british) a peddler of sand at a seashore resort. used now only to express great happiness in the expression 'happy as a sandboy'
character actor;an actor who specializes in playing supporting roles
accessory after the fact;a person who gives assistance or comfort to someone known to be a felon or known to be sought in connection with the commission of a felony
heir;a person who inherits some title or office
kotar;a member of the dravidian people living in the nilgiri hills in s india
ereshkigel;(sumerian and akkadian) goddess of death and consort of nergal
discoverer;someone who is the first to think of or make something
hotelier;an owner or manager of hotels
religious leader;someone who speaks by divine inspiration. someone who is an interpreter of the will of god
trial judge;a judge in a trial court
pharmacologist;someone trained in the science of drugs (their composition and uses and effects)
playboy;a man devoted to the pursuit of pleasure
samaritan;a person who voluntarily offers help or sympathy in times of trouble
waverer;one who hesitates (out of fear)
strapper;a very large and strong man. 'he was a bull of a man'
third sacker;(baseball or softball) the person who plays third base
tracker;someone who tracks down game (or criminals)
butcher;someone who makes mistakes because of incompetence
assamese;native or inhabitant of the state of assam in ne india
family;a person having kinship with another or others. 'he's kin'. 'he's family'
oculist;a person skilled in testing for defects of vision in order to prescribe corrective glasses
female offspring;a child who is female
sybarite;a person addicted to luxury and pleasures of the senses
orthopedist;a specialist in correcting deformities of the skeletal system (especially in children)
bridegroom;a man participant in his own marriage ceremony
mace;an official who carries a mace of office
piper;someone who plays the bagpipe
wonder child;an unusually talented or intelligent child
hun;offensive terms for a person of german descent
dean;the senior member of a group. 'he is the dean of foreign correspondents'
hatter;someone who makes and sells hats
sib;a person's brother or sister
diary keeper;someone who keeps a diary or journal
trained worker;a worker who has acquired special skills
wasp;a white protestant of anglo-saxon ancestry
fire watcher;(during world war ii in britain) someone whose duty was to watch for fires caused by bombs dropped from the air
nosy parker;a person who meddles in the affairs of others
anthropoid;person who resembles a non-human primate
patsy;a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
afficionado;an ardent follower
propositus;the person immediately affected by or concerned with an action
announcer;someone who proclaims a message publicly
eros;(greek mythology) god of love. son of aphrodite. identified with roman cupid
pleiades;(greek mythology) 7 daughters of atlas and half-sisters of the hyades. placed among the stars to save them from the pursuit of orion
meddler;an officious annoying person who interferes with others
punk;an aggressive young criminal
medical man;someone who practices medicine
organizer;someone who enlists workers to join a union
bedfellow;a temporary associate. 'politics makes strange bedfellows'
sweet talker;someone with an assured and ingratiating manner
lot s wife;(old testament) when god destroyed sodom and gomorrah lot and his family were told to flee without looking back. lot's wife was disobedient and was immediately changed into a pillar of salt
tollman;someone employed to collect tolls
bank examiner;an official appointed to audit the accounts of banks in a given jurisdiction
typographer;one who sets written material into type
tenant;someone who pays rent to use land or a building owned by someone else. 'the landlord can evict a tenant who doesn't pay the rent'
clock watcher;a worker preoccupied with the arrival of quitting time
gadgeteer;a person who delights in designing or building or using gadgets
fair game;a person who is the victim of ridicule or exploitation by some hostile person or influence. 'he fell prey to muggers'. 'everyone was fair game'
licencee;someone to who a license is granted
greengrocer;a grocer who sells fresh fruits and vegetables
french person;a native or inhabitant of france
claims adjuster;one who investigates insurance claims or claims for damages and recommends an effective settlement
mama;informal terms for a mother
skin doctor;a doctor who specializes in the physiology and pathology of the skin
anthropophagite;a person who eats human flesh
town crier;(formerly) an official who made public announcements
squaw man;a white man married to a north american indian woman
headhunter;(informal) a recruiter of personnel (especially for corporations)
secretarial assistant;an assistant who handles correspondence and clerical work for a boss or an organization
procurator;(ancient rome) someone employed by the roman emperor to manage finance and taxes
lazarus;the diseased beggar in jesus' parable of the rich man and the beggar
syndic;one appointed to represent a city or university or corporation in business transactions
jean chauvin;french-born swiss theologian whose tenets defined presbyterianism (1509-1564)
west saxon;an inhabitant of wessex
weekender;someone who vacations on a weekend
kissing cousin;a more or less distant relative. familiar enough to be greeted with a kiss
salesclerk;a salesperson in a store
designer;a person who specializes in designing architectural interiors and their furnishings
heavyweight;a very large person. impressive in size or qualities
redactor;someone who puts text into appropriate form for publication
edward;son of edward iii of england. defeated the french at crecy and poitiers in the hundred years' war (1330-1376)
longfellow;1807-1882
curate;a person authorized to conduct religious worship
girl scout;a girl who is a member of the girl scouts of america
winger;(soccer. hockey. rugby. football) player in wing position
broker dealer;a financial specialist who trades for his own account and so acts both as a broker and principal
beekeeper;a farmer who keeps bees for their honey
rodeo rider;a performer who gives exhibitions of riding and roping and bulldogging
church father;an early writer accepted as an authority on the teachings and practices of the christian church
enquirer;someone who asks a question
straphanger;a standing subway or bus passenger who grips a hanging strap for support
potboy;(british) a worker in an inn or public house who serves customers and does various chores
receptionist;a secretary whose main duty is to answer the telephone and receive visitors
classic;an artist who has created classic works
interne;an advanced student or graduate in medicine gaining supervised practical experience ('houseman' is a british term)
fuzz;(informal) uncomplimentary terms for a policeman
backslider;someone who lapses into previous undesirable patterns of behavior
dead ringer;(informal) a person who is almost identical to another
prevaricator;a person who has lied or who lies repeatedly
dermatologist;a doctor who specializes in the physiology and pathology of the skin
master;a combatant who is able to defeat rivals
tease;a seductive woman who uses her sex appeal to exploit men
iceman;someone who cuts and delivers ice
assailant;someone who attacks
elizabeth i;queen of england from 1558 to 1603. daughter of henry viii and anne boleyn (1533-1603)
wahunsonacock;chief of the powhatan nad founder of the powhatan confederacy of tribes in eastern virginia. father of pocahontas (1550?-1618)
briton;an inhabitant of s britain prior to the anglo-saxon invasions
hit man;a professional killer who uses a gun
agnostic;a person who doubts truth of religion
skanda;god of war
bowman;a person who is expert in the use of a bow and arrow
french canadian;a canadian descended from early french settlers and whose native language is french
james abraham garfield;20th president of the united states. assassinated by a frustrated office-seeker (1831-1881)
pundit;someone who has been admitted to membership in a scholarly field
patrick;a patron saint of ireland. an english missionary to ireland in the 5th century
addict;someone who is physiologically dependent on a substance. abrupt deprivation of the substance produces withdrawal symptoms
lamenter;a person who is grieving over someone who has died
extravert;a person concerned more with practical realities than with inner thoughts and feelings
sea king;a viking pirate chief
joiner;a person who likes to join groups
corsair;a pirate along the barbary coast
conjurer;a witch doctor who practices conjury
sericulturist;a producer of raw silk
religious;a member of a religious order who is bound by vows of poverty and chastity and obedience
contact;a person who is in a position to give you special assistance. 'he used his business contacts to get an introduction to the governor'
bum;a disreputable wanderer
thankless wretch;a person who shows no gratitude
mohawk;a member of the iroquoian people formerly living along the mohawk river in new york state
pigmy;an unusually small individual
mudslinger;one who spreads real or alleged scandal about another (usually for political advantage)
rocker;a performer (or enthusiast) of rock music
kung futzu;chinese philosopher (circa 551-478 bc)
delinquent;a young offender
kibitzer;someone who insists on giving unwanted advice
field general;(football) the person who plays quarterback
bondsman;a male bound to serve without wages
skagit;a member of the salish people in nw washington
boffin;(british slang) a scientist or technician engaged in military research
georg simon ohm;(1787-1854) the german physicist who formulated ohm's law
engraver;a skilled worker who can inscribe designs or writing onto a surface by carving or etching
cosmetician;someone who works in a beauty parlor
hunted person;a person who is hunted
trooper;a mounted policeman
crofter;an owner or tenant of a small farm in great britain
milady;an english noblewoman
esselen;a member of a north american indian people living on the california coast near monterey
dog;a dull unattractive unpleasant girl or woman. 'she got a reputation as a frump'. 'she's a real dog'
submariner;a member of the crew of a submarine
bohme;(1575-1624) german mystic and theosophist who founded modern theosophy. influenced george fox
skipper;an officer who is licensed to command a merchant ship
fossilist;a specialist in paleontology
granduncle;an uncle of your father or mother
guarantor;one who provides a warrant or guarantee to another
twirp;someone who is regarded as contemptible
speaker;the presiding officer of a deliberative assembly. 'the leader of the majority party is the speaker of the house of representatives'
moneygrubber;someone whose main interest in life is moneymaking
abolitionist;a reformer who favors abolishing slavery
herder;someone who drives a herd
louis xiv;(1638-1715) king of france from 1643 to 1715. his long reign was marked by the expansion of french influence in europe and by the magnificence of his court and the palace of versailles
cocksucker;(obscene) insulting terms of address
cosmonaut;a person trained to travel in a spacecraft. 'the russians called their astronauts cosmonauts'
protozoologist;a zoologist who studies protozoans
potterer;a person who putters about
shogun;a hereditary military dictator of japan. the shoguns ruled japan until the revolution of 1867-68
ceramist;a craftsman who makes pottery
newton;english mathematician and physicist. remembered for developing the calculus and for his law of gravitation and his three laws of motion (1642-1727)
giant;someone who is abnormally large
pedaler;a person who rides a pedal-driven vehicle
descartes;1596-1650
pointsman;(british) a policeman stationed at an intersection to direct traffic
stoolpigeon;someone acting as an informer or decoy for the police
cavalier;a gallant or courtly gentleman
bushman;a dweller in the australian bush country
sot;a chronic drinker
vice chancellor;a deputy or assistant to someone bearing the title of chancellor
rustler;someone who steals livestock (especially cattle)
sacristan;an officer of the church who is in charge of sacred objects
dame;informal terms for a (young) woman
doorkeeper;someone who guards the entrance to a building
medal winner;(golf) the winner at medal play of a golf tournament
television star;a star in a television show
aricara;a member of the caddo people who formerly lived in the dakotas west of the missouri river
rambler;a person whose speech or writing is not well organized
troubadour;a singer of folk songs
arboriculturist;someone trained in forestry
chaperon;one who accompanies and supervises a young woman or gatherings of young people
sleepless person;someone who cannot sleep
adventurer;someone who travels into little known regions (especially for some scientific purpose)
captain;the leader of a group of people. 'a captain of industry'
rustic;an unsophisticated country person
esquimau;a member of a people inhabiting the arctic (n canada or greenland or alaska or e siberia). the algonquians called them eskimo ('eaters of raw flesh') but they call themselves the inuit ('the people')
napoleon i;1769-1821
marshal;a law officer having duties similar to those of a sheriff in carrying out the judgments of a court of law
christ;any expected deliverer
coalman;someone who delivers coal
host;a person who invites guests to a social event (such as a party in his or her own home) and who is responsible for them while they are there
possible;an applicant who might be suitable
poseidon;(greek mythology) the god of the sea and earthquakes in ancient mythology. brother of zeus and hades and hera. identified with roman neptune
archdeacon;(anglican church) an ecclesiastical dignitary usually ranking just below a bishop
agent;acts on behalf of other persons or organizations
crawler;a person who tries to please someone in order to gain a personal advantage
starting pitcher;the pitcher who starts in a baseball game
veteran soldier;a serviceman who has seen considerable active service. 'the veterans laughed at the new recruits'
dummy;an ignorant or foolish person
animal trainer;one who trains or exhibits animals
johnny reb;(informal) 'johnny' was applied as a nickname for confederate soldiers by the federal soldiers in the american civil war. 'grayback' derived from their gray confederate uniforms
dunderhead;these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
exotic dancer;a woman who performs a solo oriental dance using exaggerated abdominal movements
crossbencher;a member of the house of commons of great britain who does not vote regularly with either the government or the opposition
cronus;(greek mythology) the supreme god until zeus dethroned him. son of uranus and gaea in ancient greek mythology. identified with roman saturn
knave;a deceitful and unreliable scoundrel
swordsman;someone skilled at fencing
primitive person;a person who belongs to early stage of civilization
valetudinarian;weak or sickly person especially one morbidly concerned with his or her health
don;(welsh) goddess. mother of gwydion and arianrod(arianrhod). corresponds to irish danu
vladimir ilyich ulyanov;russian founder of the bolsheviks and leader of the russian revolution and first head of the ussr (1870-1924)
edison;american inventor (1847-1931)
pill roller;a health professional trained in the art of preparing and dispensing drugs
old catholic;a member of the church formed in the 19th century by german catholics who refused to accept the infallibility of the pope
sportsman;someone who engages in sports
moralist;someone who demands exact conformity to rules and forms
idealist;someone guided more by ideals than by practical considerations
relation;a person related by blood or marriage. 'police are searching for relatives of the deceased'. 'he has distant relations back in new jersey'
knockout;a very attractive or seductive looking woman
lunger;a person with pulmonary tuberculosis
wahvey;a name for the old testament god as transliterated from the hebrew yhvh
toddler;a young child
brainworker;someone whose profession involves using his head to solve problems
ugo buoncompagni;(1572-1585) the pope who introduced the modern calendar
deputy sheriff;someone authorized to exercise the powers of sheriff in emergencies
straw boss;a member of a work gang who supervises the other workers
ingrate;a person who shows no gratitude
gilder;someone whose occupation is apply an overlay of gold or gilt
codger;used affectionately to refer to an eccentric but amusing old man
engraver;a printmaker who prints from an engraved printing plate
producer;someone who manufactures something
lebanese;a native or inhabitant of lebanon
loudmouth;a person who causes trouble by speaking indiscreetly
lady friend;a girl or young woman with whom a man is romantically involved. 'his girlfriend kicked him out'
gold miner;a miner who digs or pans for gold in a gold field
alexander bell;(1847-1922) american inventor of the telephone
farmhand;a hired hand on a farm
shark;someone who lends money at excessive rates of interest
cocaine addict;a person addicted to cocaine
rancher;a person who owns or operates a ranch
man of the cloth;a spiritual leader of the christian church
ottawa;a member of the olgonquian people of s ontario
nuisance;a bothersome annoying person. 'that kid is a terrible pain'
god;any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force
polygamist;someone who is married to two or more people at the same time
patrisib;one related on the father's side
provisioner;a supplier of victuals or supplies to an army
beast;a cruelly rapacious person
niccolo machiavelli;(1469-1527) a statesman of florence who advocated a strong central government
siren;a sea nymph (part woman and part bird) supposed to lure sailors to destruction on the rocks where the nymphs lived. 'odysseus ordered his crew to plug their ears so they would not hear the siren's fatal song'
amateur;does not play for pay
cracksman;a thief who breaks open safes to steal valuable contents
young person;a young person (especially a young man or boy)
james;1843-1916
ghoul;someone who takes bodies from graves and sells them for anatomical dissection
pupil;a learner who is enrolled in an educational institution
monegasque;a native or inhabitant of monaco
stevedore;a laborer who loads and unloads vessels in a port
flibbertigibbet;a female fool
unmarried woman;a woman who is not married
enemy;an armed adversary (especially a member of an opposing military force). 'a soldier must be prepared to kill his enemies'
scandinavian;an inhabitant of scandinavia
stationer;a merchant who sells writing materials and office supplies
ditch digger;a laborer who digs ditches
elli;norse goddess of old age who defeated thor in a wrestling match
source;someone who originates or causes or initiates something. 'he was the generator of several complaints'
marine;a member of the us marine corps
songwriter;a composer of words or music for popular songs
dawdler;someone who takes more time than necessary
miner;laborer who works in a mine
protectionist;an advocate of protectionism
provost;a high-ranking university administrator
william wordsworth;(1770-1850) a romantic british poet
ejaculator;a speaker who utters a sudden exclamation
softie;a person who is weak and excessively sentimental
schoolmate;an acquaintance that you go to school with
venetian;a resident of venice
teach;an english pirate who operated in the caribbean and off the atlantic coast of north america (died in 1718)
irani;a native or inhabitant of iran
undersecretary;a secretary immediately subordinate to the head of a department of government
plains indian;a member of one of the tribes of american indians who lived a nomadic life following the buffalo in the great plains of north america
bishop ulfilas;a christian bishop who translated the bible from greek into gothic (311-382)
traditionalist;one who adheres to traditional views
afrikaner;a white native of cape province who is a descendant of dutch settlers and who speaks afrikaans
fille de chambre;a maid who is employed to clean and care for bedrooms (now primarily in hotels)
lulu;a very attractive or seductive looking woman
cattleman;a hired hand who tends cattle and performs other duties on horseback
georgian;a resident of the american state of georgia
jogger;someone who runs a steady slow pace (usually for exercise)
plastic surgeon;a surgeon who beautifies the body (especially the face)
monkey;one who is playfully mischievous
civic leader;a leader in municipal affairs
man of the world;a worldly-wise person
dry;opposes intoxicating beverages
ally;an associate who provides assistance. 'he's a good ally in fight'. 'they were friends of the workers'
kazakh;a member of a muslim turkic people of w asia (especially in kazakstan)
ordinand;a person being ordained
floozy;a prostitute who attracts customers by walking the streets
artilleryman;a serviceman in the artillery
water sprite;a fairy that inhabits water
heretic;a person who holds unorthodox opinions in any field (not merely religion)
sitting bull;a chief of the teton dakota sioux (1831-1890). took up arms against settlers in the northern great plains and against us army troops. he was present at the battle of little bighorn (1876) when the sioux massacred general custer's troops
learner;someone (especially a child) who learns (as from a teacher)
southerner;an american who lives in the south
pack rat;someone who collects things that have been discarded by others
dental technician;someone who makes dental appliances (bridges and dentures)
drunk and disorderly;some arrested on the charge of being drunk and disorderly. 'they delivered the drunk-and-disorderlies to the county jail'
geriatrician;a specialist in gerontology
barker;someone who stands in front of a show (as at a carnival) and gives a loud colorful sales talk to potential customers
yuma;a member of the north american indian people of arizona and adjacent mexico and california
narcoleptic;a person who has narcolepsy
bondmaid;a female slave
astrophysicist;an astronomer who studies the physical properties of celestial bodies
sergeant major;a noncommissioned officer serving as chief administrative officer of a headquarters unit of the army
right handed pitcher;(baseball) a pitcher who throws with the left hand
watercolorist;paints with watercolors
utnapishtim;favorite of the gods and grandfather of gigamish. survived the great flood and became immortal
houri;a voluptuously beautiful young woman
bumpkin;not very intelligent or interested in culture
atropos;the fate who cuts the thread of life. identified with roman morta
fijian;a native or inhabitant of fiji
nonagenarian;someone whose age is in the nineties
check girl;a female checker
almoner;an official in a british hospital who looks after the social and material needs of the patients
wassailer;enjoys riotous drinking
mu adhdhin;the moslem official of a mosque who summons the faithful to prayer from a minaret five times a day
gunnery sergeant;a noncommissioned officer ranking above a staff sergeant in the marines
thrall;someone held in bondage
nox;goddess of night. daughter of erebus
mullah;a muslim trained in the doctrine and law of islam. the head of a mosque
paul gauguin;1848-1903
front runner;a competitor thought likely to win
half wit;a person of subnormal intelligence
yankee;an american
cleaning lady;a human female who does housework. 'the char will clean the carpet'
yucatec;a member of the mayan people of the yucatan peninsula in mexico
all rounder;a versatile person who is expert at many things. 'she's the best all-rounder they've seen in years'
public speaker;a person who delivers a speech or oration
belligerent;someone who fights (or is fighting)
governor;the head of a state government
tell;a swiss patriot who lived in the early 14th century and who was renowned for his skill as an archer. according to legend an austrian governor compelled him to shoot an apple from his son's head with his crossbow (which he did successfully without mishap)
scribe;someone employed to make written copies of documents and manuscripts
coxswain;the helmsman of a ship's boat or a racing crew
courtesan;a woman who cohabits with an important man
female monarch;a female sovereign ruler
user;someone who enjoys property
lefty;a person who uses the left hand with greater skill than the right. 'their pitcher was a southpaw'
plodder;someone who moves slowly. 'in england they call a slowpoke a slowcoach'
bishop;a clergyman having spiritual and administrative authority. appointed in christian churches to oversee priests or ministers. considered in some churches (anglican communion and eastern orthodox and roman catholic) to be successors of the twelve apostles of christ
aesir;the chief race of norse gods living at asgard
disc jockey;a person who announces and plays popular recorded music
squealer;one who reveals confidential information in return for money
fortuna;the goddess of fortune and good luck. counterpart of greek tyche
old woman;a woman who is old
political prisoner;someone who is imprisoned because of their political views
haematologist;a doctor who specializes in diseases of the blood and blood-forming organs
gymnast;an athlete who is skilled in gymnastics
opposition;an armed adversary (especially a member of an opposing military force). 'a soldier must be prepared to kill his enemies'
george frederick handel;(1685-1759) a prolific german composer noted for his oratorios
comptroller;someone who maintains and audits business accounts
chiseller;a person who swindles you by means of deception or fraud
optician;a worker who makes glasses for remedying defects of vision
harper;someone who plays the harp
guitarist;a musician who plays the guitar
osiris;god of the underworld and judge of the dead. husband and sister of isis. father or brother of horus
oil painter;a painter who uses oil paints
military personnel;someone who serves in the armed forces. 'two men stood sentry duty'
craniologist;someone who claims to read your character from the shape of your skull
angel;invests in a theatrical production
fairy;small, human in form, playful, having magical powers
incarnation;ny new embodiment of a familiar idea. 'the incarnation of evil'. 'the very avatar of cunning'
james polk;11th president of the united states. his expansionism led to the mexican war and the annexation of california and much of the southwest (1795-1849)
first mate;the officer below the master on a commercial ship
goer;someone who leaves
khalka;the mongol people living the the central and eastern parts of outer mongolia
hades;(classical mythology) the god of the underworld in ancient mythology. brother of zeus and husband of persephone
succubus;a female demon believed to have sexual intercourse with sleeping men
parvati;wife of siva and a benevolent aspect of devi: goddess of plenty
comic;a professional performer who tells jokes and performs comic acts
clio;(greek mythology) the muse of history
martyr;one who suffers for the sake of principle
roomer;a tenant in someone's house
grandnephew;a son of your niece or nephew
plunger;someone who risks losses for the possibility of considerable gains
nigra;ethnic slur. offensive name for black person
foolish woman;a female fool
actor s assistant;a wardrobe assistant for an actor
washingtonian;a resident of the state of washington
amor;(roman mythology) god of love. counterpart of greek eros
cameroonian;a native or inhabitant of cameroon
sierra leonean;a native or inhabitant of sierra leone
gond;a member of a formerly tribal people in s central india
baker;someone who bakes bread or cake
helmsman;the person who steers a ship
associate;a person who joins with others in some activity. 'he had to consult his associate before continuing'
scholastic;a person who pays more attention to formal rules and book learning than they merit
inheritress;a female heir
balloonist;someone who flies a balloon
fakeer;a muslim or hindu mendicant monk who is regarded as a holy man
artiste;a public performer (a dancer or singer)
vacationer;someone on vacation. someone who is devoting time to pleasure or relaxation rather than to work
delegate;a person appointed or elected to represent others
civilian;a nonmilitary citizen
architect;someone who creates plans for buildings
clanswoman;a member of a clan
saunterer;someone who walks at a leisurely pace
bugler;someone who plays a bugle
reading teacher;someone who teaches students to read
daydreamer;someone who indulges in idle or absent-minded daydreaming
eyeglass wearer;a person who wears spectacles in order to see better
meteorologist;studies processes in earth's atmosphere that cause weather conditions
zombie spirit;(voodooism) a spirit or supernatural force that reanimates a dead body
nast;american political cartoonist (1840-1902)
periodontist;a dentist specializing in diseases of the gums and other structure surrounding the teeth
life tenant;a tenant whose legal right to retain possession of buildings or lands lasts as long as they (or some other person) lives
looker on;someone who looks on
concessionaire;someone who holds or operates a concession
dining room attendant;someone employed to provide service in a dining room
commissionaire;(british) a uniformed doorman
dribbler;a basketball player who is dribbling the ball to advance it
landlady;a landowner whose leases to others
clergyman;a spiritual leader of the christian church
schoolmaster;any person (or institution) who acts as an educator
crown princess;the wife of a crown prince
vishnu;the sustainer. a hindu divinity worshipped as the preserver of worlds
lampooner;mimics literary or musical style for comic effect
faggot;a disparaging term for an openly homosexual man
buster;a person born in the generation following the baby boom when the birth rate fell dramatically
day labourer;a laborer who works by the day. for daily wages
sardinian;a native or inhabitant of sardinia
george berkeley;1685-1753
junior welterweight;weighs no more than 140 pounds
achaean;a member of one of the four divisions of the prehistoric greeks
worker;a person who acts and gets things done. 'he's a principal actor in this affair'. 'when you want something done get a doer'. 'he's a miracle worker'
commissioned officer;a military officer holding a commission
ladies;a man who takes advantage of women
fatso;a rotund individual
skinflint;a selfish person who is unwilling to give or spend
badgerer;someone who tries to embarrass you with gibes and questions and objections
hermann von helmholtz;1821-1894
sinhalese;a native or inhabitant of sri lanka
praetorian guard;a member of the praetorian guard
proctor;someone who supervises (an examination)
deadhead;a nonenterprising person who is not paying his way. 'the deadheads on the payroll should be eased out as fast as possible'
millwright;a workman who designs or erects mills and milling machinery
leftist;a person who belongs to the political left
golf pro;someone who earns a living by playing or teaching golf
jeune fille;a girl or young woman who is unmarried
woodman;makes things out of wood
aether;personification of the sky or upper air breathed by the olympians. son of erebus and night or of chaos and darkness
striker;(soccer) a forward on a soccer team
highlander;a native of the highlands of scotland
usbek;a member of a turkic people of uzbekistan and neighboring areas
outfitter;someone who provides outfits
avalokiteshvara;a male bodhisattva. widely associated with various gods and people
guiding light;a celebrity who is an inspiration to others. 'he was host to a large gathering of luminaries'
bragg;confederate general during the american civil war who was defeated by grant in the battle of chattanooga (1817-1876)
homeopath;a practitioner of homeopathy
child;an immature childish person. 'he remained a child in practical matters as long as he lived'. 'stop being a baby!'
ministrant;someone who serves as a minister
historiographer;a person who is an authority on history and who studies it and writes about it
roundhead;a brachycephalic person
vicar apostolic;a titular roman catholic bishop in a non-catholic area
louis leakey;british paleontologist who worked in tanzania (1903-1972)
jute;a member of a germanic people who conquered england and merged with the angles and saxons to become anglo-saxons
vender;someone who exchanges goods or services for money
clocksmith;someone whose occupation is making or repairing clocks and watches
bigot;a prejudiced person who is intolerant of any opinions differing from his own
publican;(british) the keeper of a public house
turner;a lathe operator
housing commissioner;a commissioner in charge of public housing
thomas edison;american inventor (1847-1931)
battle axe;a sharp-tongued domineering wife
confessor;someone who confesses (discloses information damaging to themselves)
inspector general;a military officer responsible for investigations
heartthrob;an object of infatuation
delawarian;a resident of delaware
addict;someone who is so ardently devoted to something that it resembles an addiction
pimp;someone who procures customers for whores (in england they call a pimp a ponce)
kinsman;a male relative
freeholder;the owner of a freehold
great aunt;an aunt of your father or mother
medium;someone who serves as an intermediary between the living and the dead. 'he consulted several mediums'
absentee;one that is absent or not in residence
ringmaster;the person in charge of performances in a circus ring
theoretician;someone who theorizes (especially in science or art)
mithraist;adherent of mithraism
malcontent;a person who is discontented or disgusted
swami;a hindu religious teacher. used as a title of respect
businessperson;engages in industrial commercial enterprise
mogul;a member of the moslem dynasty that ruled india until 1857
dweller;a person who lives in a particular place
bey;(formerly) a title of respect for a man in turkey or egypt. 'he introduced me to ahmet bey'
poetess;a woman poet
viscountess;a wife or widow of a viscount
orangeman;a member of a society founded in ireland in 1795 to uphold protestantism and the british sovereign
apostle of the gentiles;a christian missionary to the gentiles. author of several epistles in the new testament. even though paul was not present at the last supper he is considered an apostle
picker;someone who gathers crops or fruits etc.
jehovah s witness;believer in imminent approach of the millennium. practitioner of active evangelism
phony;a person who professes beliefs and opinions that they do not hold
propagator;someone who spreads the news
fusspot;thinks about unfortunate things that might happen
aristophanes;an ancient greek dramatist remembered for his comedies (448-380 bc)
negotiatrix;a woman negotiator
manannan;(irish) god of the sea. son of ler
nixon;vice president under eisenhower and 37th president of the united states. resigned after the watergate scandal in 1974 (1913-1994)
foreigner;someone who is not a member of a group
go getter;someone whose career progresses rapidly
entrepreneur;someone who organizes a business venture and assumes the risk for it
hiawatha;a native american chieftain in the 16th century who argued for peace with the european settlers
imp;one who is playfully mischievous
evenki;a member of the people inhabiting an area of northern mongolia and eastern siberia
george iv;(1762-1830) king of great britain and ireland and hanover from 1820 to 1830. his attempt to divorce his estranged wife undermined the prestige of the crown
gladiator;(ancient rome) a professional combatant or a captive who entertained the public by engaging in mortal combat
winner;a gambler who wins a bet
host;a person who acts as host at formal occasions (makes an introductory speech and introduces other speakers)
president;an executive officer of a firm or corporation
iowan;a resident of iowa
mesne lord;a feudal lord who was lord to his own tenants on land held from a superior lord
kingpin;the most important person in a group or undertaking
shyster;a person (especially a lawyer or politician) who uses unscrupulous or unethical methods
edward vi;(1537-1553) king of england and ireland from 1547 to 1553. son of henry viii and jane seymour. died of tuberculosis
publicist;someone who publicizes
devil;(judeo-christian religion) chief spirit of evil and adversary of god. tempter of mankind. master of hell
respecter;a person who respects someone or something. usually used in the negative: 'x is no respecter of y'
extreme right winger;an extreme conservative. an opponent of progress or liberalism
henry iii;(1207-1272) son of king john and king of england from 1216 to 1272. his incompetence led to baronial opposition led by simon de montfort
pedodontist;a dentist who specializes in the care of children's teeth
conveyor;a person who conveys (carries or transmits). 'the conveyer of good tidings'
chamberlain;the treasurer of a municipal corporation
undertaker;one whose business is the management of funerals
mendel;founder of the science of genetics (1822-1884)
fomorian;(irish) one of a group of sea demons sometimes associated with the hostile power of nature
tiziano vecellio;(1490-1576) painter of the venetian school
russian;a native or inhabitant of russia
sublieutenant;(british) an officer ranking next below a lieutenant
flight attendant;an attendant on an airplane
guinean;a native or inhabitant of guinea
high roller;a gambler who wagers large sums
policewoman;a woman policeman
eager beaver;an alert and energetic person
confrere;a person who is member of your class or profession. 'the surgeon consulted his colleagues'. 'he sent e-mail to his fellow hackers'
zimbabwean;a native or inhabitant of zimbabwe
zombie;a dead body that has been brought back to life by a supernatural force
hun;a member of a nomadic people who invaded europe in the 4th century
bride;irish abbess. a patron saint of ireland
scallywag;a deceitful and unreliable scoundrel
mama;a name under which ninkhursag was worshipped
stunner;a very attractive or seductive looking woman
plumber;a craftsman who installs and repairs pipes and fixtures and appliances
hemingway;an american writer of fiction who won the nobel prize for literature in 1954 (1899-1961)
goth;one of the teutonic people who invaded the roman empire in the 3rd to 5th centuries
black prince;son of edward iii of england. defeated the french at crecy and poitiers in the hundred years' war (1330-1376)
pacifist;someone opposed to violence as a means of settling disputes
silenus;any of the minor woodland deities who were companions of dionysus (similar to the satyrs)
atlantides;group of 3 to 7 nymphs who guarded the golden apples that gaea gave as a wedding gift to hera
third party;someone other than the principals who are involved in a transaction
protester;someone who participates in a public display of group feeling
bel merodach;(babylonian) the chief babylonian god. his consort was sarpanitu
abstract artist;a painter of abstract pictures
nominee;a politician who is running for public office
bailee;the agent to whom property involved in a bailment is delivered
pluralist;someone who believes that distinct ethnic or cultural or religious groups can exist together in society
cooly;an offensive name for an unskilled asian laborer
lunkhead;these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
john napier;scottish mathematician. invented logarithms. introduced the use of the decimal point in writing numbers (1550-1617)
frost;us poet famous for his lyrical poems on country life in new england (1874-1963)
bertrand arthur william russell;1872-1970
laundress;a working woman who takes in washing
porter;a person employed to carry luggage and supplies
headhunter;a savage who cuts off and preserves the heads of enemies as trophies
martin van buren;8th president of the united states (1782-1862)
flyweight;weighs no more than 115 pounds
half pint;disparaging terms for small people
mouthpiece;(informal) a spokesperson (as a lawyer)
pashto;a native or inhabitant of afghanistan
fuss budget;thinks about unfortunate things that might happen
lump;an awkward stupid person
outrider;someone who is a member of the vanguard
sumerian;a member of a people who inhabited ancient sumer
millenarian;a person who believes in the coming of the millennium (a time of great peace and prosperity)
hell kite;someone who is a very fierce fighter
improver;someone devoted to the promotion of human welfare and to social reforms
recorder;(british) a barrister or solicitor who serves as part-time judge in towns or boroughs
housewife;a wife who keeps house while her husband earns the family income
alien;a person who comes from a foreign country. someone who does not owe allegiance to your country
weeper;a hired mourner
devil;one of the evil spirits of traditional jewish and christian belief
feeder;someone who consumes food for nourishment
chinaman;offensive terms for a person of chinese descent
taft;27th president of the united states and late chief justice of the us supreme court (1857-1930)
rascal;a deceitful and unreliable scoundrel
mimic;someone who mimics (especially an actor or actress)
cheerleader;someone who leads the cheers by spectators at a sporting event
cosigner;one of two people or more who sign the same document
cuckoo;a stupid fool
ploughboy;a boy who leads the animals that draw a plow
harlequin;a clown or buffoon (after the harlequin character in the commedia dell'arte)
rapist;someone who forces another to have sexual intercourse
enchantress;a woman who is considered to be dangerously seductive
parlourmaid;a maid in a private home whose duties are to care for the parlor and the table and to answer the door
aeronautical engineer;an engineer concerned with the design and construction of aircraft
opposite;a contestant that you are matched against
boss;a person responsible for hiring workers. 'the boss hired three more men for the new job'
decision maker;someone who administers a business
swimmer;a trained athlete who participates in swimming meets. 'he was an olympic swimmer'
jezebel;a shameless impudent scheming woman
massachuset;a member of the algonquian people who formerly lived around massachusetts bay
paynim;a heathen (especially a muslim)
gravida i;a woman who is pregnant for the first time
internee;a person who is interned. 'the internees were enemy aliens and suspected terrorists'
daughter;a female human offspring. 'her daughter cared for her in her old age'
panegyrist;an orator who delivers eulogies or panegyrics
slovene;a native of slovenia
certified public accountant;an accountant certified by the state
judge advocate;a staff officer serving as legal adviser to a military commander
gauss;1777-1855
babylonian;an inhabitant of ancient babylon
loser;a gambler who loses a bet
nonbelieiver;someone who refuses to believe (as in a divinity)
customer s broker;someone in charge of a client's account for an advertising agency or brokerage or other service business
caveman;someone who dwells in a cave
burglar;a thief who enters a building with intent to steal
mother fucker;(obscene) insulting terms of address
noemi;the mother-in-law of ruth whose story is told in the book of ruth in the old testament
scorer;a player who makes a score in a game or contest
oneida;a member of the iroquoian people formerly living e of lake ontario
scatterbrain;a flighty and disorganized person
quarterback;(football) the person who plays quarterback
eskimo;a member of a people inhabiting the arctic (n canada or greenland or alaska or e siberia). the algonquians called them eskimo ('eaters of raw flesh') but they call themselves the inuit ('the people')
jenghiz khan;mongol conqueror (died in 1227)
sodalist;a member of a sodality
great nephew;a son of your niece or nephew
cowherd;a hired hand who tends cattle and performs other duties on horseback
land agent;(british) a person who administers a landed estate
somniloquist;someone who talks while asleep
cornishman;a man who is a native or inhabitant of cornwall
failure;a person with a record of failing
iranian;a native or inhabitant of iran
novelist;someone who writes novels
uneducated person;an ignorant person
title holder;someone who has won first place in a competition
wagerer;someone who bets
piano teacher;someone who teaches students to play the piano
bachelor;a man who has never been married
prig;a person regarded as arrogant and annoying
psychoneurotic;a person suffering from neurosis
ostrogoth;a member of the eastern group of goths who created a kingdom in northern italy around 500 ad
coeval;a person of nearly the same age as another
counterrevolutionary;a revolutionary whose aim is to reverse the changes introduced by an earlier revolution
balladeer;a singer of popular ballads
emigre;someone who leaves one country to settle in another
graphic artist;an artist who designs and makes prints
stoolie;someone acting as an informer or decoy for the police
uncle;a source of help and advice and encouragement. 'he played uncle to lonely students'
magdalen;a reformed prostitute
cosmetician;someone who sells or applies cosmetics
fortune teller;a person who foretells your personal future
galilean;a resident of galilee (an epithet of jesus christ)
behmen;(1575-1624) german mystic and theosophist who founded modern theosophy. influenced george fox
kuwaiti;a native or inhabitant of kuwait
drunk;someone who is intoxicated
pharmacist;a health professional trained in the art of preparing and dispensing drugs
commando;a member of a military unit trained as shock troops for hit-and-run raids
knitter;someone who makes garments (or fabrics) by intertwining yarn or thread
bugger;someone who engages in anal copulation (especially a male who engages in anal copulation with another male)
nanna;(sumerian) god of the moon. counterpart of the akkadian sin
deskman;the police sergeant on duty in a police station
manager;someone in charge of training an athlete or a team
dentist;a person qualified to practice dentistry
abandoned infant;a child who has been abandoned and whose parents are unknown
mujik;a russian peasant (especially prior to 1917)
free trader;an advocate of unrestricted international trade
latter day saint;a member of the mormon church
jongleur;a singer of folk songs
granddaddy;the father of your father or mother
disburser;someone who spends money
valuer;(brit) someone who asses the monetary worth of possessions
computer;an expert at calculation (or at operating calculating machines)
lad;a male child (a familiar term of address to a boy)
surfboarder;someone who engages in surfboarding
proselyte;a new convert. especially a gentile converted to judaism
power;a very wealthy or powerful businessman: 'an oil baron'
signior;used as an italian courtesy title. can be prefixed to the name or used separately
rifleman;someone skilled in the use of a rifle
alienist;a psychiatrist and specialist in the legal aspects of mental illness
party boss;a leader in a political party who controls votes and dictates appointments. 'party bosses have a reputation for corruption'
big spender;one who spends lavishly and ostentatiously on entertainment. 'the last of the big spenders'
artisan;a skilled worker who practices some trade or handicraft
personal representative;a person who manages the affairs of another
demon;one of the evil spirits of traditional jewish and christian belief
henry;(1791-1878) american physicist who studied electromagnetic phenomena
elected official;official who won the office in a free election
hauler;a haulage contractor
salian;a member of the tribe of franks who settled in the netherlands in the 4th century ad
framer;someone who writes a new law or plan. 'the framers of the constitution'
blimp;any elderly pompous reactionary
heir;a person who is entitled by law or by the terms of a will to inherit the estate of another
cheat;someone who leads you to believe something that is not true
epidemiologist;a medical scientist who studies the transmission and control of epidemic diseases
rebel;someone who exhibits great independence in thought and action
crackerjack;someone excellent of their kind. 'he's a jimdandy of a soldier'
tax assessor;an official who evaluates property for the purpose of taxing it
chiromancer;someone who predicts your future by the lines on your palms
director;someone who controls resources and expenditures
performing artist;an entertainer who performs a dramatic or musical work for an audience
adventist;a member of christian denomination that expects the imminent advent of christ
founder;a worker who makes metal castings
trial lawyer;a lawyer who specializes in defending clients before a court of law
land agent;a person who is authorized to act as an agent for the sale of land. 'in england they call a realtor a land agent'
menominee;a member of the extinct algonquian people formerly living between lake michigan and lake superior
william gilbert;a librettist who was a collaborator with sir arthur sullivan (1836-1911)
bos n;a petty officer on a merchant ship who controls the work of other seamen
linguist;a specialist in linguistics
ear doctor;a physician who specializes in the ear and its diseases
biter;someone who bites
graverobber;someone who steals valuables from graves or crypts
pythagoras;circa 580-500 bc
hammerhead;these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
sahaptin;a member of a north american indian people who lived in oregon along the columbia river and its tributaries in washington and n idaho
st james;disciple of jesus. brother of john. author of the epistle of james in the new testament
cassius;prime mover in the conspiracy against julius caesar (died in 42 bc)
minuteman;an american militiaman prior to the revolutionary war
tom thumb;a very small person
punk rocker;a performer (or enthuiast) of punk rock
lord;a titled peer of the realm
strike leader;someone who leads a strike
saleswoman;a woman salesperson
toast mistress;a woman toastmaster
risk taker;someone who risks loss or injury in the hope of gain or excitement
abetter;one who helps or encourages or incites another
shit;(obscene) insulting terms of address
model;someone worthy of imitation. 'every child needs a role model'
blood;a dissolute man in fashionable society
spin doctor;a spokesperson for a political party or candidate who tries to forestall negative publicity
emigrant;someone who leaves one country to settle in another
muzhik;a russian peasant (especially prior to 1917)
lohan;a buddhist who has attained nirvana
child;a member of a clan or tribe. 'the children of israel'
john doe;an average person
olympic god;a classical greek god after the overthrow of the titans
forewoman;a woman who is foreperson of a jury
leader;a person who rules or guides or inspires others
buyer;a person who buys
archduke;a sovereign prince of the former ruling house of austria
black and tan;an english recruit serving in the royal irish constabulary to combat sinn fein in 1921
timekeeper;a clerk who keeps track of the hours worked by employees
satellite;a person who follows or serves another
villainess;a woman villain
trouble maker;someone who deliberately stirs up trouble
tramp;a disreputable wanderer
sannup;a married male american indian
uigur;a member of a turkic people of chinese turkestan and neighboring areas (formerly of mongolia and e turkestan)
fieldworker;a researcher who works in the field
confidante;a female confidant
haman;(old testament) the minister of the persian emperor who hated the jews and was hanged for plotting to massacre them
phantom;an unusual appearing ghostly figure. 'we were unprepared for the apparition that confronted us'
spaniard;a native or inhabitant of spain
phoebus;sun god. god of prophesy and poetry and music and healing. son of zeus and leto. twin brother of artemis
ripper;a murderer who slashes the victims with a knife. 'jack the ripper was probably a madman'
wretch;someone you feel sorry for
chancellor;the person who is head of state (in several countries)
ornithologist;a zoologist who studies birds
andorran;a native or inhabitant of andorra
ptah;a major god. shaper of the world. father of gods and men. worshipped especially at memphis
sheikh;the leader of an arab village or family
sweetie;a person loved by another person
berkeley;1685-1753
irishman;a man who is a native or inhabitant of ireland
imitator;someone who (fraudulently) assumes the appearance of another
don juan;a successful womanizer (after a profligate spanish nobleman)
pixie;(folklore) fairies that are somewhat mischievous
lieutenant general;a general officer ranking above a major general and below a full general
cosignatory;one of two people or more who sign the same document
pediatrician;a specialist in the care of babies
tutor;a person who gives private instruction (as in singing or acting)
combatant;someone who fights (or is fighting)
parolee;someone released on probation or on parole
athapascan;a member of any of the north american indian groups speaking an athapaskan language and living in the subarctic regions of western canada and central alaska
hearing officer;an official appointed by a government agency to conduct an investigation or administrative hearing so that the agency can exercise its statutory powers
heir at law;the person legally entitled to inherit the property of someone who dies intestate
brahma;the creator. one of the three major deities in the later hindu pantheon
checker;one who checks the correctness of something
favorite son;a politician favored mainly in his or her home state
backscratcher;someone who is willing to trade favors or services for mutual advantage
help;a person who contributes to the fulfillment of a need or furtherance of an effort or purpose. 'my invaluable assistant'. 'they hired additional help to finish the work'
earl of leicester;(1208-1265) an english nobleman who led the baronial rebellion against henry iii
secretary of housing and urban development;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of housing and urban development. 'the first secretary of housing and urban development was robert c. weaver who was appointed by johnson'
magpie;someone who collects things that have been discarded by others
despot;a dictator or dictatorial person
sailing master;the ship's officer in charge of navigation
blighter;a boy or man. 'that chap is your host'. 'there's a fellow at the door'. 'he's a likable cuss'
zionist;a jewish supporter of zionism
costa rican;a native or inhabitant of costa rica
drinker;a person who drinks alcoholic beverages (especially to excess)
evangelist;a preacher of the christian gospel
adolf hitler;(1889-1945) german dictator during world war ii
competition;the contestant you hope to defeat. 'he had respect for his rivals'. 'he wanted to know what the competition was doing'
calligrapher;someone skilled in penmanship
proteus;(greek mythology) a prophetic god who served poseidon. was capable of changing his shape at will
queen;the wife or widow of a king
sentimentalist;someone who indulges in excessive sentimentality
mathematics teacher;someone who teaches mathematics
fellow traveler;a communist sympathizer (but not a member of the communist party)
barman;an employee who mixes and serves alcoholic drinks at a bar
child molester;a man who has sex with a boy
economist;an expert in the science of economics
kansas;a member of the siouan people of the kansas river valley in kansas
balletomane;a ballet enthusiast
sluggard;an idle slothful person
newswriter;a journalist employed to provide news stories for newspapers or broadcast media
tv reporter;someone who reports news stories via television
backer;invests in a theatrical production
copernicus;polish astronomer who produced a workable model of the solar system with the sun in the center (1473-1543)
carolus linnaeus;1707-1778
carabinier;a soldier whose rifle is a carbine
runaway;someone who flees from an uncongenial situation. 'fugitives from the seatshops'
food faddist;a person who adheres briefly to different diets
mithridates the great;ancient king who expanded his kingdom by defeating the romans but was later driven out by pompey (132-63 bc)
poove;a disparaging term for an openly homosexual man
opera star;singer of lead role in an opera
bawd;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
accessory;someone who helps another person commit a crime
internal revenue agent;someone who collects taxes for the government
referee;(sports) the chief official (as in boxing or american football) who is expected to ensure fair play
timpanist;a person who plays the kettledrums
decuma;the fate who determines the length of the thread of life. counterpart of greek lachesis
mithridates;ancient king who expanded his kingdom by defeating the romans but was later driven out by pompey (132-63 bc)
landowner;a holder or proprietor of land
spendthrift;someone who spends money prodigally
synonymist;a student of synonyms
coach;someone in charge of training an athlete or a team
ganesh;god of wisdom or prophesy. remover of obstacles
saint;a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization
shipping agent;the agent of a shipowner
joker;a person who does something thoughtless or annoying. 'some joker is blocking the driveway'
cardsharp;a professional card player who makes a living by cheating at card games
bunkmate;someone who occupies the same sleeping quarters as yourself
grand lama;chief lama and once ruler of tibet
australian aborigine;a dark-skinned member of a race of people living in australia when europeans arrived
gasman;someone employed by a gas company
beldam;an ugly evil-looking old woman
newsmonger;a person given to gossiping
helot;(medieval europe) a person who is bound to the land and owned by the feudal lord
nammu;(sumerian) goddess personifying the primeval sea. mother of the gods and of heaven and earth
registrant;a person who is formally entered (along with others) in a register (and who obtains certain rights thereby)
usbeg;a member of a turkic people of uzbekistan and neighboring areas
manoeuverer;a person skilled in maneuvering
color sergeant;a sergeant in a color guard who carries one of the colors
secretary;a person to whom a secret is entrusted
federalist;a member of a former political party in the us that favored a strong centralized federal government
khanty;a member of the nomadic ugrian people living in nw siberia (east of the ural mountains)
military policeman;a member of the military police who polices soldiers and guards prisoners
disinfestation officer;a person whose job is to destroy or drive away vermin
strategian;an expert in strategy (especially in warfare)
embalmer;a mortician who treats corpses with preservatives
tanzanian;a native or inhabitant of tanzania
attorney;a professional person authorized to practice law. conducts lawsuits or gives legal advice
the tempter;(judeo-christian religion) chief spirit of evil and adversary of god. tempter of mankind. master of hell
operative;someone who can be employed as a detective to collect information
pacifier;someone who tries to bring peace
mercenary;a person hired to fight for another country than their own
sauk;a member of the algonquian people living in wisconsin the fox river valley and the shores of green bay
executive director;a person responsible for the administration of a business
poet laureate;the poet officially appointed to the royal household in great britain. 'the poet laureate is expected to provide poems for great national occasions'
aesop;circa 620-560 bc
gabonese;a native or inhabitant of gabon
pest;a persistently annoying person
cowboy;a performer who gives exhibitions of riding and roping and bulldogging
rembrandt van ryn;1606-1669
intelligence analyst;a government analyst of information about an enemy or potential enemy
quibbler;a disputant who quibbles
career man;a man who follows a professional career
owner;someone who owns (is legal possessor of) a business. 'he is the owner of a chain of restaurants'
settler;a person who settle in a new colony or moves into new country
inger;a member of western finnish people formerly living in the baltic province where saint petersburg was built
liege subject;a person holding a fief
polyhymnia;(greek mythology) the muse of singing and mime and sacred dance
nonworker;a person who does nothing
bosun;a petty officer on a merchant ship who controls the work of other seamen
medical officer;a medical practitioner in the armed forces
orderly sergeant;the first sergeant of a company. duties formerly included the conveyance of orders
rentier;someone whose income is from property rents or bond interest and other investments
mainer;a resident of maine
depressive;someone suffering psychological depression
lapidary;a skilled worker who cuts and engraves precious stones
denier;one who denies
second in command;someone who relieves a commander
missus;informal term of address for someone's wife
union member;a worker who belongs to a trade union
pole jumper;an athlete who jumps over a high crossbar with the aid of a long pole
absolver;someone who grants absolution
scofflaw;one who habitually ignores the law and does not answer court summonses
diana;(roman mythology) virgin goddess of the hunt and the moon. counterpart of greek artemis
applauder;someone who communicates high praise
gurkha;a member of a hindu people descended from brahmins and rajputs who live in nepal
archangel;an angel ranked above the highest rank in the celestial hierarchy
samuel taylor coleridge;1772-1834
running back;(football) the person who plays halfback
capitalist;a person who invests capital in a business (especially a large business)
profiteer;someone who makes excessive profit (especially on goods in short supply)
plain people;people noted for their plain dress and simple life style
bandsman;a player in a band (especially a military band)
pi;someone who can be employed as a detective to collect information
bather;a person who travels through the water by swimming. 'he is not a good swimmer'
catholic;a member of a catholic church
quintuplet;one of five children born at the same time
heller;a rowdy or mischievous person (usually a young man). 'he chased the young hellions out of his yard'
arizonian;a resident of arizona
quiche;a member of the mayan people of south central guatemala
head waiter;a diningroom attendant who is in charge of the waiters and the seating of customers
janus;(roman mythology) the roman god of doorways and passages. is depicted with two faces on opposite sides of his head
juryman;someone who serves (or waits to be called to serve) on a jury
countertenor;a male singer with a voice above that of a tenor
vendee;a person who buys
merchant;a businessperson engaged in retail trade
infanticide;a person who murders an infant
representative;a member of the us house of representatives
nonpareil;model of excellence or perfection of a kind. one having no equal
bore;a person who evokes boredom
cottage dweller;someone who lives in a cottage
helper;a person who helps people or institutions
butcher;a brutal indiscriminate murderer
payee;a person to whom money is paid
concessioner;someone who holds or operates a concession
man;a man who takes advantage of women
apostolic delegate;(roman catholic) a representative of the holy see in a country that has no formal diplomatic relations with it
hippie;someone who rejects the established culture. advocates extreme liberalism in politics and lifestyle
barnstormer;an actor who travels around the country presenting plays
major;a commissioned military officer in the us army or air force or marines. below lieutenant colonel and above captain
slant eye;a disparaging term for an asian person (especially for north vietnamese soldiers in the vietnam war)
stoic;someone who is seemingly indifferent to emotions
moron;a person of subnormal intelligence
diesinker;someone who makes dies
hussy;a woman adulterer
faultfinder;someone who is critical of the motives of others
bourbon;a member of the european royal family that ruled france
gerald rudolph ford;38th president of the united states. appointed vice president and succeeded nixon when nixon resigned (1913- )
postimpressionist;an artist of the postimpressionist school who revolted against impressionism
nonconformist;a protestant in england who is not a member of the church of england
monster;a cruel wicked and inhuman person
madcap;a reckless impetuous irresponsible person
counterfeiter;someone who makes copies illegally
min wn;a god of procreation
costanoan;a member of a north american indian people living in coastal california between monterey and san francisco bay
account executive;someone in charge of a client's account for an advertising agency or brokerage or other service business
stupid person;a person who is not very bright: 'the economy, stupid!'
pharmaceutical chemist;someone trained in the science of drugs (their composition and uses and effects)
annoyer;someone given to teasing (as by mocking or stirring curiosity)
gramps;the father of your father or mother
cad;someone who is morally reprehensible. 'you dirty dog'
draper;a dealer in fabrics and sewing materials (and sometimes in clothing and drygoods)
side judge;a football official
smoker;a person who smokes tobacco
prison guard;someone who guards prisoners
liquidator;a person (usually appointed by a court of law) who liquidates assets or preserves them for the benefit of affected parties
graduate nurse;someone who has completed the course of study (including hospital practice) at a nurses training school
editorialist;a journalist who writes editorials
wiseacre;an upstart who makes conceited, sardonic, insolent comments
vice chairman;one ranking below or serving in the place of a chairman
copy editor;an editor who prepares text for publication
copilot;a relief pilot on an airplane
great grandmother;a mother of your grandparent
mordva;a member of the agricultural people living in the central volga provinces of european russia
deaf mute;a deaf person who is unable to speak
sinner;a person who sins (without repenting)
caller;a social visitor. 'the room was a mess because he hadn't expected company'
uruguayan;a native or inhabitant of uruguay
arriver;someone who arrives (or has arrived)
picket;a protester posted by a labor organization outside a place of work
huckster;a seller of shoddy goods
naomi;the mother-in-law of ruth whose story is told in the book of ruth in the old testament
occidental;a native inhabitant of the occident
oglala;a member of the siouan people formerly inhabiting the black hills of w south dakota
station keeper;the police sergeant on duty in a police station
pommy;(australian and new zealand) a disparaging term for english immigrants to australia or new zealand
globetrotter;someone who travels widely and often
cabinet minister;a person who is a member of the cabinet
social anthropologist;an anthropologist who studies such cultural phenomena as kinship systems
flirt;a seductive woman who uses her sex appeal to exploit men
john calvin;french-born swiss theologian whose tenets defined presbyterianism (1509-1564)
boor;a crude uncouth ill-bred person lacking culture or refinement
slyboots;a shifty deceptive person
humpback;a person whose back is hunched because of abnormal curvature of the upper spine
keeper;someone in charge of other people. 'am i my brother's keeper?'
betsy griscom ross;said to have made the first american flag at the request of george washington (1752-1836)
spoilsport;(informal) someone who spoils the pleasure of others
butt;a victim of ridicule or pranks
tuatha de danann;(irish) race of gods or demigods. ruled ireland in the golden age
quizmaster;(british) the host or chairman of a radio or tv quiz show or panel game
puritan;a person excessively concerned about propriety and decorum
christ;a prophet of the first century (circa 8 bc - 29 ad). to christians he was both god and man--the messiah sent to save the human race from the sin it inherited through the fall of man
groveller;someone who humbles himself as a sign of respect. who behaves as he had no self-respect
birdbrain;a person with confused ideas. incapable of serious thought
abridger;one who shortens or condenses a written work
fill in;someone who takes the place of another (as when things get dangerous or difficult). 'the star had a stand-in for dangerous scenes'. 'we need extra employees for summer fill-ins'
thrower;someone who projects something through the air (especially by a rapid motion of the arm)
auden;1907-1973
crookback;a person whose back is hunched because of abnormal curvature of the upper spine
playwright;someone who writes plays
sakti;the female or generative principle. wife of siva and a benevolent form of devi
braggart;a very boastful and talkative person
science teacher;someone who teaches science
adams;6th president of the united states and son of the 2nd president (1767-1848)
scot;a native or inhabitant of scotland
provincial;a country person
traveling salesman;a salesman who travels to call on customers
twirler;someone who twirls a baton
cold fish;an aloof unemotional person
crackpot;a whimsically eccentric person
consignor;the person who consigns merchandise
attestant;a person who attests to the genuineness of a document or signature by adding their own signature
man of science;a person with advanced knowledge of one of more sciences
diocesan;a bishop having jurisdiction over a diocese
oppressor;a person of authority who subjects others to undue pressures
yemeni;a native or inhabitant of yemen
salesman;a man salesperson
gregor johann mendel;founder of the science of genetics (1822-1884)
panderer;someone who procures customers for whores (in england they call a pimp a ponce)
enlil;(sumerian) god of the air and king of the sumerian gods
dayboy;a day boarder who is a boy
cousin german;the child of your aunt or uncle
anunnaki;(babylonian) any of a group of powerful earth spirits or genii. servitors of the gods
gravida iii;a woman who is pregnant for the third time
oriya;a member of a people in india living in orissa and neighboring areas
horseshoer;a person who shoes horses
noah;the hebrew patriarch who saved himself and his family and the animals by building an ark in which they survived 40 days and 40 nights of rain. the story of noah and the flood is told in the book of genesis
social lion;a celebrity who is lionized (much sought after)
dissolute person;a person (usually a man) who is morally unrestrained
toda;a member of a pastoral people living in the nilgiri hills of s india
booby;an ignorant or foolish person
pudden head;a person who is not very bright: 'the economy, stupid!'
frenchman;a native or inhabitant of france
understudy;an actor able to replace a regular performer when required
neurasthenic;a person suffering a nervous breakdown
divine messenger;a messenger from god. 'angel of death'
chiseler;a person who swindles you by means of deception or fraud
mortgagor;the person who gives a mortgage in return for money to be repaid. 'we became mortgagors when the bank accepted our mortgage and loaned us the money to buy our new home'
originator;someone who creates new things
great grandparent;a parent of your grandparent
shi ite;a member of the branch of islam that regards ali as the legitimate successor to mohammed and rejects the first three caliphs
case;a person who is subjected to experimental or other observational procedures. someone who is an object of investigation. 'the subjects for this investigation were selected randomly'. 'the cases that we studied were drawn from two different communities'
sterope;(greek mythology) one of the 7 pleiades
bounder;someone who is morally reprehensible. 'you dirty dog'
belgian;a native or inhabitant of belgium
quadriplegic;a person who is paralyzed in both arms and both legs
john bull;a man of english descent
offspring;the immediate descendants of a person. 'she was the mother of many offspring'. 'he died without issue'
hack;a politician who belongs to a small clique that controls a political party for private rather than public ends
little terror;a very troublesome child
chink;offensive terms for a person of chinese descent
kicker;a player who kicks the football
outfielder;(baseball or softball) a person who plays in the outfield
executive secretary;a secretary having administrative duties and responsibilities
radiologic technologist;a scientist trained in radiological technology
pentathlete;an athlete who competes in a pentathlon
lamb;a sweet innocent mild-mannered person (especially a child)
silverworker;someone who makes or repairs articles of silver
naprapath;a therapist who practices naprapathy
jobholder;an employee who has a regular job
active citizen;a citizen who takes an active role in the community (as in crime prevention and neighborhood watch)
coastguardsman;a member of a coastguard
trier;one who tries
yankee;an american who lives in the north (especially during the american civil war)
logician;a person skilled at symbolic logic
carrier;a person who has some pathogen to which they are immune but who can pass it on to others
inmate;a patient who is residing in the hospital where he is being treated
mother superior;the superior of a group of nuns
street cleaner;a worker employed to clean streets (especially one employed by a municipal sanitation department)
hannibal;general who commanded the carthaginian army in the second punic war. crossed the alps and defeated the romans but was recalled to defend carthage and was defeated
amon;a primeval personification of air and breath. worshipped especially at thebes
godchild;an infant who is sponsored by an adult (the godparent) at baptism
holy man;person of exceptional holiness
futurist;someone who predicts the future
shrimp;disparaging terms for small people
pusher;one who intrudes or pushes himself forward
servitor;someone who performs the duties of an attendant for someone else
ceramicist;a craftsman who makes pottery
canoeist;someone paddling a canoe
marquis;nobleman (in various countries) ranking above a count
bird;informal terms for a (young) woman
deaf person;a person with a severe auditory handicap
authority;(usually plural) persons who exercise (administrative) control over others. 'the authorities have issued a curfew'
potman;(british) a worker in an inn or public house who serves customers and does various chores
jabberer;someone whose talk is trivial drivel
event planner;someone who plans social events as a profession (usually for government or corporate officials)
coenobite;a member of a religious order living in common
duke;a nobleman (in various countries) of high rank
square dancer;someone who does square dancing
tsarina;the wife or widow of a czar
wealthy man;a man who is wealthy
peer of the realm;(british) a peer who is entitled to sit in the house of lords
has been;someone who is no longer popular
hindu deity;a deity worshipped by the hindus
rousseau;1712-1778
liberator;someone who releases people from captivity or bondage
hunk;a well-built sexually attractive man
lurcher;someone waiting in concealment
busboy;a restaurant attendant who sets tables and assists waiters and clears away dirty dishes
waiter;a person who waits or awaits
executive officer;the officer second in command
moirae;the 3 goddesses of fate or destiny. identified with the roman parcae and similar to the norse norns
stay at home;a person who seldom goes anywhere. one not given to wandering or travel
superintendent;a caretaker for an apartment house. represents the owner as janitor and rent collector
senior pilot;the pilot ins charge of an airship
barbadian;a native or inhabitant of barbados
gibson girl;the idealized american girl of the 1890s as pictured by c. d. gibson
quarrier;a man who works in a quarry
predestinationist;anyone who submits to the belief that they are powerless to change their destiny
registered nurse;a graduate nurse who has passed examinations for registration
gael;a gaelic-speaking celt in ireland or scotland or the isle of man
insolvent;someone who has insufficient assets to cover their debts
wagoner;the driver of a wagon
torch singer;a singer (usually a woman) who specializes in singing torch songs
cheapskate;a miserly person
professional golfer;someone who earns a living by playing or teaching golf
anglican;a protestant who is a follower of anglicanism
knight bachelor;a knight of the lowest order. could display only a pennon
senorita;a spanish courtesy title for a girl or unmarried woman
scriptwriter;someone who writes scripts for plays or movies or broadcast dramas
calculator;an expert at calculation (or at operating calculating machines)
pantaloon;a buffoon in modern pantomimes. the butt of jokes
cheremis;a member of a rural finnish people living in e russia
portrait painter;a painter of portraits
parashurama;an incarnation of vishnu who rid the earth of kshatriyas
primogenitor;an ancestor in the direct line
respondent;someone who responds
civil engineer;an engineer trained to design and construct and maintain public works (roads or bridges or harbors etc.)
musketeer;a foot soldier armed with a musket
bacteriologist;a biologist who studies bacteria
laconian;a resident of laconia
william tell;a swiss patriot who lived in the early 14th century and who was renowned for his skill as an archer. according to legend an austrian governor compelled him to shoot an apple from his son's head with his crossbow (which he did successfully without mishap)
dueller;a person who fights duels
right hander;(baseball) a pitcher who throws with the left hand
linesman;the official (in tennis or soccer) who watches the lines
american indian;a member of the race of people living in north america when europeans arrived
slave;someone who works as hard as a slave
savant;someone who has been admitted to membership in a scholarly field
kipling;1865-1936
flagellant;a person who whips himself as a religious penance
wolverine;a resident of michigan
man eater;a person who eats human flesh
chairman;the officer who presides at the meetings of an organization
weatherman;predicts the weather
jack tar;a man who serves as a sailor
septuagenarian;someone whose age is in the seventies
yeniseian;a member of one of the groups living in the yenisei river valley in western siberia
bag lady;a homeless woman who carries all her possessions with her in shopping bags
carrier;a boy who delivers newspapers
morgan;soldier in the american revolutionary war who defeated the british in the battle of cowpens, south carolina (1736-1802)
abhorrer;a signer of a 1679 address to charles ii in which those who petitioned for the reconvening of parliament were condemned and abhorred
waggonwright;a wagon maker
litter bearer;one who helps carry a stretcher
phytologist;a biologist specializing in the study of plants
padre;'father' is a term of address for priests in some churches (especially roman or orthodox catholic). 'padre' is frequently used in the military
yankee doddle;an american
monophthalmos;a general of alexander the great and king of macedonia. lost one eye. killed in a battle at ipsus (382-301 bc)
burrhus frederic skinner;1904-1990
flak;a slick spokesperson who can turn any criticism to the advantage of their employer
webster;(1758-1843) american lexicographer
dunkard;adherent of baptistic doctrines
unsuccessful person;a person with a record of failing
dallier;someone who wastes time
thor;(norse mythology) god of thunder and rain and farming. wielded the hammer moljnir. identified with teutonic donar
religionist;a person who manifests devotion to a deity
road agent;a holdup man who stops a vehicle and steals from it
working man;an employee who performs manual or industrial labor
thief;a criminal who takes property belong to someone else with the intention of keeping it
oarswoman;a woman oarsman
doge;formerly the chief magistrate in the republics of venice and genoa
advisee;someone who receives advice
sap;a person who lacks good judgment
ross;said to have made the first american flag at the request of george washington (1752-1836)
hoka;a member of a north american indian people speaking one of the hokan language
profit taker;someone who sells stock shares at a profit
house physician;a physician (especially an intern) who lives in a hospital and cares for hospitalized patients under the supervision of the medical staff of the hospital
falconer;a person who breeds and trains hawks and who follows the sport of falconry
killjoy;(informal) someone who spoils the pleasure of others
malayan;a member of a people inhabiting the n malay peninsula and malaysia and parts of the w malay archipelago
infielder;(baseball or softball) a person who plays a position in the infield
yob;a cruel and brutal fellow
sage;a mentor in spiritual and philosophical topics
delilah;(old testament) samson's philistine mistress who betrayed him by cutting off his hair
regular;a regular patron: 'an habitue of the racetrack'
basso;an adult male singer with the lowest voice
spokesman;a male spokesperson
slip;a young and slender person. 'he's a mere slip of a lad'
persian;a native or inhabitant of iran
boddhisatva;buddhist worthy of nirvana who postpones it to help others
holy terror;a very troublesome child
beer drinker;someone whose favorite drink is beer or ale
oxonian;a resident of oxford
gaoler;someone who guards prisoners
hokan;a member of a north american indian people speaking one of the hokan language
adjunct;a person who is subordinate to another
african american;an american whose ancestors were born in africa
maoist;an advocate of maoism
etcher;someone who etches
cacodaemon;(greek) an evil spirit
assyrian;an inhabitant of ancient assyria
plasterer;a worker skilled in applying plaster
dead person;someone who is no longer alive. 'i wonder what the dead person would have done'
yardmaster;a railroad employer who is in charge of a rail yard
fledgling;any new participant in some activity
scrutineer;(british) someone who takes or counts votes
dealer;the person who distributes the playing cards in a card game
kalapooia;a member of the north american indian people of the wilamette basin in oregon
ranter;someone who rants and raves. speaks in a violent or loud manner
fellow;a person who is frequently in the company of another. 'drinking companions'. 'comrades in arms'
swineherd;a herder or swine
soda jerk;someone who works at a soda fountain
publisher;a person engaged in publishing periodicals or books or music
prajapati;god personifying a creative force. equivalent to brahma
quetzalcoatl;an aztec deity represented as a plumed serpent
fundamentalist;a supporter of fundamentalism
bacchant;(greek & roman mythology) a priest or votary of bacchus
daemon;one of the evil spirits of traditional jewish and christian belief
amaethon;(welsh) the farmer god. ancient god of agriculture
francis bacon;1561-1626
lascar;an east indian sailor
bhumi devi;earth goddess. one of the two wives of vishnu
agitator;one who agitates. a political troublemaker
leper;a person afflicted with leprosy
aengus;(irish) god of love and beauty. patron deity of young men and women
deviate;a person whose behavior deviates from what is acceptable especially in sexual behavior
horse wrangler;a cowboy who takes care of the saddle horses
lizard;a man who idles about in the lounges of hotels and bars in search of women who would support him
comrade;a person who is frequently in the company of another. 'drinking companions'. 'comrades in arms'
donar;the teutonic god of thunder. counterpart of norse thor
poulterer;a dealer in poultry and poultry products
von neumann;united states mathematician who contributed to the development of atom bombs and of stored-program digital computers (1903-1957)
stoic;a member of the ancient greek school of philosophy founded by zeno. 'a stoic achieves happiness by submission to destiny'
batswana;a member of a bantu people living chiefly in botswana and western south africa
soul;"a human being. 'there was too much for one person to do'"
millionaire;a person who possesses great material wealth
runt;disparaging terms for small people
fdr;32nd president of the united states. elected four times. instituted new deal to counter the great depression and led country during world war ii (1882-1945)
logos;the divine word of god. the second person in the trinity (incarnate in jesus)
geographer;an expert on geography
sports fan;an enthusiastic devotee of sports
passamaquody;a member of the algonquian people related to the malecite and living in ne maine and new brunswick
drawing card;an entertainer who attracts large audiences. 'he was the biggest drawing card they had'
guzzler;someone who drinks greedily (especially alcoholic beverages). 'he guzzles beer every night'
ear nose and throat doctor;a specialist in the disorders of the ear or nose or throat
prince consort;a prince who is the husband of a female sovereign
boleyn;the second wife of henry viii of england and mother of elizabeth i. was executed on a charge of adultery (1507-1536)
tv star;a star in a television show
grandfather;the father of your father or mother
wrestler;tries to throw opponent to the ground
polk;11th president of the united states. his expansionism led to the mexican war and the annexation of california and much of the southwest (1795-1849)
the goat god;god of fields and woods and shepherds and flocks. represented as a man with goat's legs and horns and ears. identified with roman sylvanus or faunus
bionic man;a human being whose body has been taken over in whole or in part by electromechanical devices. 'a cyborg is a cybernetic organism'
choragus;leader of a group or festival. (ancient greece) leader of a chorus
debutante;a young woman making her debut into society
grammarian;a linguist who specializes in the study of grammar and syntax
able seaman;a seaman in the merchant navy. trained in special skills
attraction;an entertainer who attracts large audiences. 'he was the biggest drawing card they had'
crasher;someone who gets in (to a party) without an invitation or without paying
zombi;a dead body that has been brought back to life by a supernatural force
drug trafficker;someone who sells illegal drugs
foot soldier;fights on foot with small arms
vicegerent;someone appointed by a ruler as an administrative deputy
cypriot;a native or inhabitant of cyprus
parsi;a member of a monotheistic sect of zoroastrian origin. descended from the persians. now found in western india
vaunter;a very boastful and talkative person
functionary;a worker who holds or is invested with an office
reactionary;an extreme conservative. an opponent of progress or liberalism
holy father;the head of the roman catholic church
stumblebum;an awkward stupid person
caffre;(south africa) an offensive term for any black african
changeling;a person of subnormal intelligence
tatar;a member of the mongolian people of central asia who invaded russia in the 13th century
medical intern;an advanced student or graduate in medicine gaining supervised practical experience ('houseman' is a british term)
george fox;(1624-1691) english religious leader who founded the society of friends
grandniece;a daughter of your niece or nephew
cardinal richelieu;(1585-1642) french prelate and statesman. principal minister to louis xiii
drawer;the person who writes a check or draft instructing the drawee to pay someone else
arkansan;a resident of arkansas
skinner;1904-1990
toxicologist;one who studies the nature and effects of poisons and their treatment
turncoat;someone who rebels and becomes and outlaw
leveler;a radical who advocates the abolition of political or economic or social inequalities
ball hawk;an team athlete who is skilled at stealing or catching the ball
ghanian;a native or inhabitant of ghana
blind man;a person with a visual handicap severe enough to leave them unemployable
reporter;a person who investigates and reports or edits news stories
part timer;someone who works less than the customary or standard time
apothecary;a health professional trained in the art of preparing and dispensing drugs
state trooper;a state police officer
technologist;a person who uses scientific knowledge to solve practical problems
millenarist;a person who believes in the coming of the millennium (a time of great peace and prosperity)
skater;someone who skates
soldier of fortune;a person hired to fight for another country than their own
saddhu;(hinduism) an ascetic holy man
dispatcher;the official who signals the beginning of a race or competition
cassite;a member of an ancient people who ruled babylonia between 1600 and 1200 bc
genius;someone who is very highly skilled
patron;(italian) the proprietor of an inn
robert edward lee;american general who led the confederate armies in the american civil war (1807-1870)
levantine;(formerly) a native or inhabitant of the levant
saracen;(historically) a muslim who opposed the crusades
flatterer;a person who uses flattery
booker;someone who engages a person or company for performances
rebel;a person who takes part in a rebellion in the hope of improving conditions
discoverer;someone who is the first to explore a place
spastic;a person suffering from spastic paralysis
captain;an officer holding a rank below a major but above a lieutenant
souse;a person who drinks alcohol to excess habitually
water witch;someone who uses a divining rod to find underground water
animal fancier;a person who breeds animals
property owner;a holder or proprietor of land
marcus junius brutus;statesman of ancient rome who (with cassius) led a conspiracy to assassinate julius caesar (85-42 bc)
malian;a native or inhabitant of mali
supporter;someone who supports or champions something
bronco buster;a cowboy who breaks broncos to the saddle
hypochondriac;a patient with imaginary symptoms and ailments
paraprofessional;a trained worker who is not a member of a profession but who assists a professional
invalid;someone who is incapacitated by a chronic illness or injury
tiamat;(akkadian) mother of the gods and consort of apsu
pantryman;a manservant (usually the head servant of a household) who has charge of wines and the table
maidu;a member of a north american indian people living e of the sacramento river in california
injured party;someone injured or killed in an accident
functionalist;an adherent of functionalism
ball of fire;a highly energetic and indefatigable person
annuitant;the recipient of an annuity
horsewoman;a woman horseman
holdup man;an armed thief
spanish american;an american whose first language was spanish
examiner;an investigator who observes carefully. 'the examiner searched for clues'
fowler;someone who hunts wild birds for food
straight person;a heterosexual person. someone having a sexual orientation to persons of the opposite sex
sheikha;the wife of a sheik
verdandi;goddess of fate: present
realist;a philosopher who believes that universals are real and exist independently of anyone thinking of them
disciple;someone who believes and helps to spread the doctrine of another
regular;a soldier in the regular army
george v;(1865-1936) king of great britain and ireland and emperor of india from 1910 to 1936. gave up his german title during world war i
eurafrican;a person of mixed european and african descent
plotter;a member of a conspiracy
staff officer;a commissioned officer assigned to a military commander's staff
stakeholder;someone entrusted to hold the stakes for two or more persons betting against one another. must deliver the stakes to the winner
tribesman;someone who lives in a tribe
talent;a person who possesses unusual innate ability in some field or activity
adman;someone whose business is advertising
incumbent;the official who holds an office
interloper;someone who intrudes on the privacy or property of another without permission
scourge;a person who inspires fear or dread. 'he was the terror of the neighborhood'
performer;an entertainer who performs a dramatic or musical work for an audience
richard the lion heart;(1157-1199) son of henry ii and king of england from 1189 to 1199. a leader of the third crusade. on his way home from the crusade he was captured and held prisoner in the holy roman empire until england ransomed him in 1194
applier;a person who requests or seeks something such as assistance or employment or admission
freemason;a member of a widespread secret fraternal order pledged to mutual assistance and brotherly love
welsh;a native or resident of wales
hanuman;the monkey god. helper of rama
fellow traveller;a traveler who accompanies you
opium taker;someone addicted to opium
nut;goddess of the sky
philosopher;a specialist in philosophy
cub scout;a junior boy scout
picasso;1881-1973
stipendiary magistrate;(british) paid magistrate (appointed by the home secretary) dealing with police cases
prior;the head of a religious order. in an abbey the prior is next below the abbot
arizonan;a resident of arizona
madam;a woman of refinement
convict;a person convicted of a criminal offence
thomas robert malthus;an english economist who argued that increases in population would outgrow increases in the means of subsistence (1766-1834)
tablemate;someone you dine with
beggar;a pauper who lives by begging
make peace;someone who tries to bring peace
hooligan;a cruel and brutal fellow
gagster;someone who writes comic material for public performers
outlander;a person who comes from a foreign country. someone who does not owe allegiance to your country
better;one having claim to precedence. a superior: 'the common man has been kept in his place by his betters'
john tyler;elected vice president and became the 10th president of the united states when harrison died (1790-1862)
drunk;a chronic drinker
housekeeper;a wife who keeps house while her husband earns the family income
soul mate;someone for whom you have a deep affinity
aztec;a member of the nahuatl people who established an empire in mexico that was overthrown by cortes in 1519
vermin;an irritating or obnoxious person
christopher colombus;1451-1506
beelzebub;(judeo-christian religion) chief spirit of evil and adversary of god. tempter of mankind. master of hell
blackshirt;a member of the italian fascist party before world war ii
agent provocateur;a secret agent who incites suspected persons to commit illegal acts
fieldsman;a member of the cricket team that is fielding rather than batting
batting coach;someone who teaches batters how to bat better
asshole;(obscene) insulting terms of address
featherweight;weighs no more than 126 pounds
affluent;an affluent person. a person who is financially well off. 'the so-called emerging affluents'
millionairess;a woman millionaire
art director;the director in charge of the artistic features of a theatrical production (costumes and scenery and lighting)
morgan;u.s. biologist who formulated the chromosome theory of heredity
promiser;a person who makes a promise
magus;a magician or sorcerer of ancient times
prospector;someone who explores an area for mineral deposits
goldsmith;an artisan who makes jewelry and other objects out of gold
dignitary;an important or influential person
teacher;a person whose occupation is teaching
saxe;a french marshall who distinguished himself in the war of the austrian succession
deep sea diver;a diver in the deeper parts of the sea
shen pao;a member of the taoist trinity. identified with lao-tse
housemaster;teacher in charge of a school boardinghouse
lather;a workman who puts up laths
squaw;an american indian woman
cat fancier;a person who breeds and cares for cats
bondsman;a male slave
melancholiac;someone subject to melancholia
muezzin;the moslem official of a mosque who summons the faithful to prayer from a minaret five times a day
courier;a person who carries a message
small person;a person of below average size
bermudian;a native or inhabitant of bermuda
fratricide;a person who murders their brother or sister
woodrow wilson;28th president of the united states. led us in world war i and secured the formation of the league of nations (1856-1924)
trouble shooter;a worker whose job is to locate and fix sources of trouble (especially in mechanical devices)
lowlander;a native of the lowlands of scotland
philatelist;a collector and student of postage stamps
population scientist;a scientist who studies the growth and density of populations and their vital statistics
farm boy;a boy who has grown up on a farm
aircraftsman;a noncommissioned officer in the british royal air force
tomfool;a person who lacks good judgment
saloon keeper;the proprietor of a saloon
agriculturist;someone concerned with the science or art or business of cultivating the soil
replacement;someone who takes the place of another person
devourer;someone who consumes food for nourishment
defendant;a person against whom an action is brought in a court of law
barnstormer;a pilot who travels around the country giving exhibits of stunt flying and parachuting
disbeliever;someone who refuses to believe (as in a divinity)
internuncio;(roman catholic) a diplomatic representative of the pope ranking below a nuncio
center;(ice_hockey) the person who plays center
apple polisher;someone who humbles himself as a sign of respect. who behaves as he had no self-respect
businesswoman;a female businessman
publius cornelius scipio;roman general who commanded the invasion of carthage in the second punic war and defeated hannibal at zama (circa 237-183 bc)
garbage collector;someone employed to collect and dispose of refuse
leonardo da vinci;1452-1519
gremlin;(folklore) fairies that are somewhat mischievous
witness;a close observer. someone who looks at something (such as an exhibition of some kind). 'the spectators applauded the performance'. 'television viewers'. 'sky watchers discovered a new star'
assistant;a person who contributes to the fulfillment of a need or furtherance of an effort or purpose. 'my invaluable assistant'. 'they hired additional help to finish the work'
cookie;the cook on a ranch or at a camp
euclid;greek geometer (3rd century bc)
dental hygienist;someone trained to provide preventive dental service (cleaning teeth or taking x-rays)
cristobal colon;1451-1506
nurseryman;someone who takes care of a garden
mahayanist;an adherent of mahayana buddhism
astrologer;someone who predicts the future by the positions of the planets and sun and moon
translator;someone who mediates between speakers of different languages
jean jacques rousseau;1712-1778
gentile;a person who is not a member of one's own religion. used in this sense by mormons and hindus
cottar;a peasant farmer in the scottish highlands
drone;someone who takes more time than necessary
good for naught;an idle worthless person
mayor;the head of a city government
abnaki;a member of the algonquian people of maine and s quebec
goody goody;a person who behaves extremely well in order to please a superior
granny;an old woman
married woman;a married woman. a man's partner in marriage
nymph;a voluptuously beautiful young woman
bruiser;someone who bullies weaker people
penitent;a person who repents for wrongdoing (a roman catholic may be admitted to penance under the direction of a confessor)
dropkicker;a football kicker who drops the ball and kicks it just as it reaches the ground
dowager;a widow holding property received from her deceased husband
defeatist;someone who is resigned to defeat
trinil man;a type of primitive man who lived in java in the paleolithic age
toastmaster;the person who proposes toasts and introduces speakers at a banquet
fakir;a muslim or hindu mendicant monk who is regarded as a holy man
mary baker eddy;(1821-1910) founder of christian science in 1866
liturgist;an authority on liturgies
girl;a youthful female person. 'the baby was a girl'. 'the girls were just learning to ride a tricycle'
phoenician;a member of an ancient semitic people who dominated trade in the first millennium b.c.
sneak thief;a thief who steals without using violence
bushman;a member of the race of nomadic hunters and gatherers who live in southern africa
senior citizen;an elderly person
verrazzano;florentine explorer of the eastern coast of north america (circa 1485-1528)
head;(informal) a user of (usually soft) drugs. 'the office was full of secret heads'
benjamin harrison;23rd president of the united states (1833-1901)
field officer;an officer holding the rank of major or lieutenant colonel or colonel
rhode islander;a resident of rhode island
schoolman;a scholar who is skilled in academic disputation
oceanus;god of the stream that flowed around the earth in ancient mythology
medico;a student in medical school
type;a person of a specified kind (usually with many eccentricities). 'a strange character'. 'a friendly eccentric'. 'the capable type'. 'a mental case'
takelma;a member of a north american indian people of sw oregon
zoologist;a specialist in the branch of biology dealing with animals
padre;a chaplain in one of the military services
punster;someone overly fond of making puns
stateless person;a person forced to flee from home or country
colleague;a person who is member of your class or profession. 'the surgeon consulted his colleagues'. 'he sent e-mail to his fellow hackers'
casanova;(1725-1798) an italian adventurer who wrote vivid accounts of his sexual encounters
seneca;(circa 4 bc - 65 ad) an adviser to nero
man;an adult male person (as opposed to a woman). 'there were two women and six men on the bus'
idiot;a person of subnormal intelligence
standard bearer;an outstanding leader of a political movement
skin diver;an underwater swimmer equipped with a face mask and foot fins and either a snorkel or an air cylinder
crumb;a person who is deemed to be despicable or contemptible. 'only a rotter would do that'. 'kill the rat'. 'throw the bum out'. 'you cowardly little pukes!'
blowhard;a very boastful and talkative person
ernest hemingway;an american writer of fiction who won the nobel prize for literature in 1954 (1899-1961)
java man;a type of primitive man who lived in java in the paleolithic age
machine;an efficient person. 'the boxer was a magnificent fighting machine'
familiar spirit;a spirit (usually in animal form) that acts as an assistant to a witch or wizard
sheepman;a herder of sheep (on an open range). someone who keeps the sheep together in a flock
baal;any of numerous local fertility and nature deities worshipped by ancient semitic peoples. the hebrews considered baal a false god
llud;(welsh) a warrior god
greek catholic;a member of the greek orthodox church
adad;(babylonian) god of storms and wind
hand;a member of the crew of a ship. 'all hands on deck'
oracle;an authoritative person who divines the future
innovator;someone who helps to open up a new line of research or technology or art
government agent;a representative or official of a government or administrative department of a government
marshall;(in some countries) a military officer of highest rank
muhammad;(570-632) the prophet who founded islam
angolan;a native or inhabitant of angola
trier;one (as a judge) who examines and settles a case
demiurge;a subordinate deity, in some philosophies the creator of the universe
milquetoast;a timid man or boy considered childish or unassertive
switch hitter;a baseball player who can bat either right or left handed
etiologist;a specialist in the etiology of diseases
social scientist;someone expert in the study of human society and its personal relationships
nazi;a german member of adolf hitler's political party
welcher;someone who swindles you by not repaying a debt or wager
homeless;someone with no housing. 'the homeless became a problem in the large cities'
fashion plate;a man who is much concerned with his dress and appearance
jnr;a son who has the same first name as his father
despoina;daughter of zeus and demeter. made queen of the underworld by pluto in ancient mythology. identified with roman proserpina
chawbacon;not very intelligent or interested in culture
businessman;a person engaged in commercial or industrial business (especially an owner or executive)
hollander;a native or inhabitant of holland
persian deity;a deity worshiped by the ancient persians
yankee;an american who lives in new england
costumier;someone who designs or supplies costumes (as for a play or masquerade)
guvnor;(british slang) boss
harpy;a malicious fierce-tempered woman
carper;someone who frequently finds fault or makes harsh and unfair judgments
churchwarden;an officer in the episcopal church who helps a parish priest with secular matters
burgess;a citizen of an english borough
common person;a person who holds no title
west berliner;an inhabitant of west berlin
patrician;a person of refined upbringing and manners
hadji;a pilgrim who journeys to mecca
sharper;a person who swindles you by means of deception or fraud
william kidd;a scottish sea captain who was hired to protect british shipping in the indian ocean and then was accused of piracy and hanged (1645-1701)
thomas woodrow wilson;28th president of the united states. led us in world war i and secured the formation of the league of nations (1856-1924)
freshman;any new participant in some activity
omani;a native or inhabitant of oman
collaborationist;someone who collaborates with an enemy occupying force
page;in medieval times a youth acting as a knight's attendant as the first stage in training for knighthood
wrecker;someone who commits sabotage
dame;a woman of refinement
sylph;a slender graceful young woman
hacker;one who works hard at boring tasks
sousa;a us bandmaster and composer of military marches (1854-1932)
newsvendor;someone who sells newspapers
showgirl;a woman who dances in a chorus line
pageboy;a boy who is employed to run errands
caseworker;someone employed to provide social services (especially to the disadvantaged)
frump;a dull unattractive unpleasant girl or woman. 'she got a reputation as a frump'. 'she's a real dog'
piano tuner;someone who tunes pianos
faculty member;an educator who works at a college or university
carrottop;someone who has red hair
swellhead;a conceited and self-centered person
runner;someone who travels on foot by running
tecumseh;a famous chief of the shawnee who tried to unite indian tribes against the increasing white settlement (1768-1813)
nonsmoker;a person who does not smoke tobacco
baby boomer;a member of the baby boom generation in the 1950s. 'they expanded the schools for a generation of baby boomers'
brain truster;an expert adviser involved in making important decisions but usually lacking official status
embezzler;someone who violates a trust by taking (money) for their own use
hematologist;a doctor who specializes in diseases of the blood and blood-forming organs
small fry;someone who is small and insignificant
janissary;a turkish soldier
abraham;the first of the old testament patriarchs and the father of isaac. according to genesis god promised to give abraham's family (the hebrews) the land of canaan (the promised land). god tested abraham by asking him to sacrifice his son
bridesmaid;a woman who attends the bride at a wedding
accumulator;a person who is employed to collect payments (as for rent or taxes)
mummy;informal terms for a mother
osteopath;a therapist who manipulates the skeleton and muscles
hobbyist;a person who pursues and activity in their spare time for pleasure
queen mother;a queen dowager who is mother of the reigning sovereign
radiologist;a medical specialist who uses radioactive substances and x-rays in the treatment of disease
sympathizer;expresses hope that something will be successful
iroquois;any member of the warlike north american indian peoples formerly living in new york state. the league of iroquois (or five nations) were allies of the british during the american revolution
co worker;an associate you work with
wolf boy;a male person assumed to have been raised by wolves
troller;a fisherman who uses a hook and line
sun;a person considered as a source of warmth or energy or glory etc
godiva;according to legend she rode naked through coventry in order to persuade her husband not to tax the townspeople so heavily (1040-1080)
copper;(informal) uncomplimentary terms for a policeman
miguel de cervantes;spanish writer best remembered for 'don quixote' which satirizes chivalry and influenced the development of the novel form (1547-1616)
annalist;a historian who writes annals
home buyer;someone buying a house
mikado;(archaic) the emperor of japan. when regarded as a religious leader the emperor is called tenno
caller;the person initiating a telephone call
acoustician;a physicist who specializes in acoustics
william faulkner;(1897-1962) novelist who wrote about people in the southern u.s.
consultant;an expert who gives advice
truman;elected vice president in roosevelt's 4th term. became 33rd president of the united states on roosevelt's death in 1945 and was elected president in 1948. authorized the use of atomic bombs against japan (1884-1972)
administrator;someone who manages a government agency or department
charles robert darwin;english natural scientist whose 'on the origin of species' formulated a theory of evolution by natural selection (1809-1882)
runner;a baseball player on the team at bat who is on base (or attempting to reach a base)
ohm;(1787-1854) the german physicist who formulated ohm's law
johan kepler;german astronomer who first stated laws of planetary motion (1571-1630)
propagandist;a person who disseminates messages calculated to assist some cause or some government
hunkpapa;a member of the siouan people formerly living in the western dakotas. the were prominent in resisting the white encroachment into the n great plains
oil industry analyst;an analyst of the oil industry
californian;a resident of california
greco roman deity;a deity of classical mythology
crier;a shouter who advertises the goods they sell
dubliner;a resident of dublin
theist;one who believes in the existence of a god or gods
livonian;a member of the livonian-speaking people of latvia
real estate broker;a person who is authorized to act as an agent for the sale of land. 'in england they call a realtor a land agent'
injun;offensive terms for native americans
counsellor;a lawyer who pleads cases in court
handmaid;a personal maid or female attendant
cosmologist;an astronomer who studies the evolution and space-time relations of the universe
slogger;a boxer noted for an ability to deliver hard punches
groom;someone employed in a stable to take care of the horses
son of a bitch;(obscene) insulting terms of address
whore;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
monger;someone who purchases and maintains an inventory of goods to be sold
writer;a person who is able to write and has written something
conqueror;someone who is victorious by force of arms
salome;woman whose dancing beguiled herod into giving her the head of john the baptist
junior;a son who has the same first name as his father
bast;cat- or lion-headed goddess. represents life-giving power of the sun
no show;someone who shirks duty
enlisted person;a serviceman who ranks below a commissioned officer
favourite;a competitor thought likely to win
woman chaser;a man who is aggressive in making amorous advances to women
kiliwi;a member of a north american indian people living in n baja california
secretary general;a person who is a chief administrator (as of the united nations)
homesteader;someone who settles lawfully on government land with the intent to acquire title to to it
lpn;a nurse who has enough training to be licensed by a state to provide routine care for the sick
gnome;a legendary creature resembling a tiny old man. lives in the depths of the earth and guards buried treasure
set;evil beast-headed god with high square ears and a long snout. brother and murder of osiris
jap;a person of japanese descent
lieutenant jg;an officer holding a commissioned rank in the us navy or coast guard. below lieutenant and above ensign
cannoneer;a serviceman in the artillery
stunt flier;a pilot who travels around the country giving exhibits of stunt flying and parachuting
monopolist;someone who monopolizes the means of producing or selling something
taster;someone who samples food or drink for its quality
fire marshall;an official who is responsible for the prevention and investigation of fires
anathema;a detested person. 'he is an anathema to me'
titan;(greek mythology) any of the primordial giant gods who ruled the earth until overthrown by zeus. the titans were offspring of uranus (heaven) and gaea (earth)
quin;one of five children born at the same time
yavapai;a member of a north american indian people of central arizona
wakashan;a member of one of the peoples in british columbia and washington who speak the wakashan language
number one;(informal) a reference to yourself or myself etc.. 'take care of number one' means to put your own interests first
kwan yin;(buddhism) a female bodhisattva. often called goddess of mercy and considered an aspect of the bodhisattva avalokitesvara. identified with japanese kwannon
cybele;great nature goddess of ancient phrygia in asia minor. counterpart of greek rhea and roman ops
prefect;a chief officer or chief magistrate. 'the prefect of paris police'
tyrr;god of war and strife and son of odin. identified with anglo-saxon tiu
hegel;1770-1831
chartered accountant;a british accountant who is a member of the institute of chartered accountants
determinist;anyone who submits to the belief that they are powerless to change their destiny
bobbysoxer;an adolescent girl wearing bobby socks (common in the 1940s)
maidservant;a female domestic
lister;1827-1912
long shot;a contestant that is unlikely to win
dweeb;a person of unquestioning obedience
print seller;someone who sells etchings and engravings etc.
appeaser;someone who tries to bring peace
buffalo indian;a member of one of the tribes of american indians who lived a nomadic life following the buffalo in the great plains of north america
half wit;(informal) a stupid incompetent person
ape;someone who copies the words or behavior of another
write in candidate;a candidate for public office whose name does not appear on the ballot and so must be written on the ballot by the voters
nut;a whimsically eccentric person
boatman;someone who drives or rides in a boat
lawgiver;a maker of laws. someone who gives a code of laws
guinea;ethnic slur. offensive terms for a person of italian descent
mugger;a thief who takes property by threatening (or performing) violence on the person who is robbed
bondswoman;a female slave
naturopath;a therapist who practices naturopathy
applied scientist;a person who uses scientific knowledge to solve practical problems
father;an early writer accepted as an authority on the teachings and practices of the christian church
abstracter;one who makes abstracts or summarizes information
pol;a person active in party politics
inspector;an investigator who observes carefully. 'the examiner searched for clues'
kui;a member of the dravidian people living in se india
road runner;someone who participates in long-distance races (especially in marathons)
recreant;an abject coward
gnaeus pompeius magnus;roman general and statesman who quarrelled with caesar and fled to egypt where he was murdered
rider;a person traveling in a vehicle (a boat or bus or car or plane or train etc) who is not operating it
gendarme;a french policeman
hosea;a hebrew prophet of the 8th century bc
stockman;farmer who breed or raises livestock
torero;a matador or one of the supporting team during a bull fight
chimakum;a member of the salishan people living in nw washington
thomas;the apostle who would not believe the resurrection of jesus until he saw jesus with his own eyes
ameer;an independent ruler or chieftain (especially in africa or arabia)
peace officer;an officer of the law
classifier;a person who creates classifications
spiritual leader;a leader in religious or sacred affairs
terrorist;a radical who employs terror as a political weapon
resident;a physician (especially an intern) who lives in a hospital and cares for hospitalized patients under the supervision of the medical staff of the hospital
arb;someone who engages in arbitrage (who purchases securities in one market for immediate resale in another in the hope of profiting from the price differential)
party man;a member of a political party who follows strictly the party line
preemie;an infant that is born prematurely
conservator;someone appointed by a court to assume responsibility for the interests of a minor or incompetent person
hotshot;someone who is very highly skilled
natural scientist;a biologist knowledgeable about natural history (especially botany and zoology)
egghead;an intellectual (who is bald?)
proletarian;a member of the working class (not necessarily employed). 'workers of the world--unite!'
telepathist;a magician who seems to discern the thoughts of another person (usually by clever signals from an accomplice)
toter;someone whose employment involves carrying something. 'the bonds were transmitted by carrier'
watercolourist;paints with watercolors
sign painter;someone who paints signs and billboards etc.
full admiral;the supreme commander of a fleet. ranks above a vice admiral and below a fleet admiral
probation officer;the officer of the court who supervises probationers
left winger;a person who belongs to the political left
jean caulvin;french-born swiss theologian whose tenets defined presbyterianism (1509-1564)
enthusiast;a person having a strong liking for something
pasiphae;daughter of helios and mother of ariadne
soma;personification of a sacred intoxicating drink used in vedic ritual
artificer;an enlisted man responsible for the upkeep of small arms and machine guns etc.
homemaker;someone (especially a housewife) who manages a household
provider;someone whose business is to supply a particular service or commodity
playfellow;a companion at play
wise man;a wise and trusted guide and advisor
subsidiary;someone subject to the authority or control of another
nephthys;goddess associated with ritual of the dead. sister of geb and nut. wife of set
middleman;the performer in the middle of a minstrel line who engages the others in talk
voyager;a traveler to a distant land (especially one who travels by sea)
selene;goddess of the moon in ancient mythology. identified with roman luna
deviationist;an ideological defector from the party line (especially from orthodox communism)
knight;originally a person of noble birth trained to arms and chivalry. today in great britain a person honored by the sovereign for personal merit
renegade;a disloyal person who forsakes his cause or religion or political party or friend etc.
line judge;a football official
conchologist;a collector and student of mollusc shells
central american;a native or inhabitant of central america
hotei;one of the 7 gods of happiness
henry viii;(1491-1547) son of henry vii and king of england from 1509 to 1547. his divorce from catherine of aragon resulted in his break with the catholic church in 1534 and the start of the english reformation
sempstress;someone who makes or mends dresses
thomas alva edison;american inventor (1847-1931)
warrant officer;holds rank by virtue of a warrant
nobleman;a titled peer of the realm
wittgenstein;1889-1951
army officer;an officer in the armed forces. 'he's a retired army officer'
goof;a stupid fool
auntie;the sister of your father or mother. the wife of your uncle
privateersman;an officer or crew member of a privateer
watchman;a guard who keeps watch
erwin panofsky;1892-1968
general officer;officers in the army or air force or marines above the rank of colonel
merrymaker;one who shares in a noisy festival
bond servant;someone bound to labor without wages
flutist;someone who plays the flute
white friar;a catholic friar wearing the white cloak of the carmelite order
hotelkeeper;an owner or manager of hotels
socrates;ancient athenian philosopher(470-399 bc). teacher of plato and xenophon
demagogue;an orator who appeals to the passions and prejudices of his audience
steelman;a worker engaged in amking steel
conductor;the person who leads a musical group
kleptomaniac;someone with an irrational urge to steal in the absence of an economic motive
verthandi;goddess of fate: present
second cousin;a child of a first cousin
fyodorovich stravinsky;1882-1971
spanish american;a resident of latin america
petit bourgeois;a member of the lower middle class
isis;goddess of fertility. daughter of geb. sister and wife of osiris
workmate;a fellow worker
property master;member of the stage crew in charge of properties
washwoman;a working woman who takes in washing
marquis de sade;(1740-1814) french soldier and writer whose descriptions of sexual perversion gave rise to the term 'sadism'
faraday;the english physicist nd chemist who discovered electromagnetic induction (1791-1867)
ghost;a writer who gives the credit of authorship to someone else
djinni;a spirit believed by muslims to inhabit the earth and influence mankind by appearing in the form of humans or animals
grantee;a recipient of a grant
cpa;an accountant certified by the state
bear;an investor with a pessimistic market outlook
cretan;a native or inhabitant of crete
heroine;a woman possessing heroic qualities
screenwriter;someone who writes screenplays
fascist;an adherent of fascism or other right-wing authoritarian views
foeman;an armed adversary (especially a member of an opposing military force). 'a soldier must be prepared to kill his enemies'
michelangelo;1475-1564
kirghiz;a member of a people of turkic speech and mongolian race inhabiting vast regions of central siberia
front man;a person used as a cover for some questionable activity
insurrectionist;a person who takes part in a rebellion in the hope of improving conditions
slaughterer;a person who slaughters or dresses meat for market
gujarati;a member of the people of gujarat
marcher;fights on foot with small arms
henry iv;(1367-1413) the first lancastrian king of england from 1399 to 1413. deposed richard ii and suppressed rebellions
harum scarum;a reckless impetuous irresponsible person
fuddy duddy;(informal) a bore
chimneysweep;someone who cleans soot from chimneys
clip artist;a swindler who fleeces the victim
eddy;(1821-1910) founder of christian science in 1866
jr;a son who has the same first name as his father
invigilator;(british) someone who watches examination candidates to prevent cheating
spelaeologist;a person who explores caves
catechumen;a new convert being taught the principles of christianity by a catechist
bell ringer;someone who plays musical handbells
fake;a person who makes deceitful pretenses
manumitter;someone who frees others from bondage. 'lincoln is known as the great emancipator'
fashion designer;someone who designs clothing
dressmaker s model;someone who models dresses
shouter;someone who communicates vocally in a very loud voice
poser;a person who habitually pretends to be something he is not
prisoner of war;a person who surrenders to (or is taken by) the enemy in time of war
signore;an italian title of respect for a man. equivalent to the english 'sir'. used separately (not prefixed to his name)
clotho;the fate who spins the thread of life. identified with roman nona
madwoman;a woman lunatic
impersonator;someone who (fraudulently) assumes the appearance of another
master;an authority qualified to teach apprentices
needleworker;someone who does work (as sewing or embroidery) with a needle
heavy hitter;an influential person who works hard to promote the causes they are interested in
commissioned naval officer;a commissioned officer in the navy
croat;a member of the slavic people living in croatia
vixen;a malicious fierce-tempered woman
gem cutter;one who cuts and shapes precious stones
narrator;someone who tells a story
letter carrier;a man who delivers the mail
shower;someone who organizes an exhibit for others to see
tagalong;someone who persistently (and annoyingly) follows along
clinician;a practitioner (of medicine or psychology) who does clinical work instead of laboratory experiments
pentecostal;any member of a pentecostal religious body
medai guru;someone who advises about the use of communication media
nursing aide;someone who assists a nurse in tasks that require little formal training
head nurse;a woman in charge of nursing in a medical institution
serial killer;someone who murders more than three victims one at a time in a relatively short interval
maraco;a member of the south american people living in argentina and bolivia and paraguay
finder;someone who is the first of observe something
raider;someone who takes spoils or plunder (as in war)
hoarder;a person who accumulates things and hides them away for future use
eudaemon;(greek) a benevolent spirit
charles baudelaire;a french poet noted for macabre imagery and evocative language (1821-1867)
influence peddler;someone who intervenes with authorities for a person in trouble (usually using underhand or illegal methods for a fee)
elder statesman;an elderly statesman whose advice is sought be government leaders
commie;a socialist who advocates communism
union soldier;a member of the union army during the american civil war
homebody;a person who seldom goes anywhere. one not given to wandering or travel
hawker;a person who breeds and trains hawks and who follows the sport of falconry
aditya;one of 7 to 12 sons of aditi. gods of celestial light
ares;(greek mythology) god of war. son of zeus and hera. identified with roman mars
anchorite;one retired from society for religious reasons
timberman;a person works at lumbering
monozygous twin;twins developed from the same fertilized ovum (having the same genetic material)
grass widower;a man who is divorced from (or separated from) his wife
professional person;a person engaged in one of the learned professions
little brother;a younger brother. 'my little brother just had his 50th birthday'
fancy woman;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
solicitor general;a law officer appointed to assist an attorney general
whisperer;one who speaks in a whisper
para;a soldier in the paratroops
taoist;an adherent of any branch of taoism
ostyak samoyed;one of the people of mixed ostyak and samoyed origin in siberia
moses;the hebrew prophet who led the israelites from egypt across the red sea on a journey known as the exodus. moses received the ten commandments from god on mount sinai
algonkin;a member of a north american indian people in the ottawa river valley of ontario and quebec
chauvinist;an extreme bellicose nationalist
naval officer;an officer in the navy
follower;an ordinary person who accepts the leadership of another
goddaughter;a female godchild
armiger;a nobleman entitled to bear heraldic arms
defense contractor;a contractor concerned with the development and manufacture of systems of defense
coureur de bois;a french canadian trapper
assemblyman;someone who is a member of a legislative assembly
lingerer;someone who lingers aimlessly in or about a place
basketball player;an athlete who plays basketball
aryan;a member of the prehistoric people who spoke proto-indo_european
aristotelian;a follower of aristotle or an adherent of aristotelianism
yahwe;a name for the old testament god as transliterated from the hebrew yhvh
incompetent person;someone who is not competent to take effective action
alabama;a member of the muskhogean people formerly living in alabama. a member of the creek confederacy
goldworker;an artisan who makes jewelry and other objects out of gold
seymour;(1509-1537) the third wife of henry viii and mother of edward vi
nymphet;a sexually attractive young woman
djiboutian;a native or inhabitant of djibouti
mogul;a very wealthy or powerful businessman: 'an oil baron'
wight;a human being. 'wight' is an archaic term
englishman;a man who is a native or inhabitant of england
primitive;a person who belongs to early stage of civilization
fedor mikhailovich dostoevski;russian novelist (1821-1881)
woman;an adult female person (as opposed to a man). 'the woman kept house while the man hunted'
malecite;a member of the algonquian people of ne maine and new brunswick
farrier;a person who shoes horses
secretary of state;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of state. 'the first secretary of state was thomas jefferson'
felon;someone who has committed (or been legally convicted of) a crime
aphorist;someone who formulates aphorisms or who repeats aphorisms
william bligh;(1754-1817) british admiral. was captain of the h.m.s. bounty when the crew mutinied in 1789
tax collector;someone who collects taxes for the government
abstinent;refrains from intoxicating beverages
roller skater;someone who engages in roller skating
invader;someone who enters by force in order to conquer
teller;an employee of a bank who receives and pays out money
master;a person who has general authority over others
utility man;a worker expected to serve in any capacity when called on
john marshall;american jurist. as chief justice of the supreme court he established the principles of united states constitutional law (1755-1835)
lamarck;french naturalist who proposed that evolution resulted from the inheritance of acquired characteristics (1744-1829)
shutterbug;a photography enthusiast
junior featherweight;weighs no more than 122 pounds
street person;someone who sleeps in any convenient place
maldivan;a native or inhabitant of maldives
film writer;someone who writes screenplays
lear;british artist and writer of nonsense verse (1812-1888)
asker;someone who asks a question
bombardier;a noncommissioned officer in the british artillery
predictor;someone who makes predictions of the future
stepmother;the wife of your husband by a subsequent marriage
signora;an italian title of address equivalent to mrs. when used before a name
jailer;someone who guards prisoners
slaveholder;someone who owns slaves
caliph;the civil and religious leader of a muslim state. a successor of muhammad
puerto rican;a resident of puerto rico
vacationist;someone on vacation. someone who is devoting time to pleasure or relaxation rather than to work
giuseppe garibaldi;italian patriot whose conquest of sicily and naples led to the formation of the italian state (1807-1882)
manageress;a woman manager
hindoo;a person who adheres to hinduism
graces;(greek mythology) three sisters who were the givers of beauty and charm. a favorite subject for sculptors
atheist;someone who denies the existence of god
slattern;a prostitute who attracts customers by walking the streets
educator;someone who educates
backbiter;one who attacks the reputation of another by slander or libel
oriental person;a member of an oriental race
wayfarer;walks from place to place
rower;someone who rows a boat
probable;an applicant likely to be chosen
light colonel;a commissioned officer in the us army or air force or marines holding a rank above major and below colonel
whaler;a seaman who works on a ship that hunts whales
persephone;daughter of zeus and demeter. made queen of the underworld by pluto in ancient mythology. identified with roman proserpina
secularist;an advocate of secularism. someone who believes that religion should be excluded from government and education
director;member of a board of directors
watch;a person employed to watch for something to happen
traveler;a person who changes location
dervish;an ascetic muslim monk. a member of an order noted for devotional exercises involving bodily movements
devisee;someone to whom property (especially realty) is devised by will
intruder;someone who intrudes on the privacy or property of another without permission
life;a living person. 'his heroism saved a life'
melpomene;(greek mythology) the muse of tragedy
breed;half-caste offspring of parents of different races (especially of white and indian parents)
intermediator;a negotiator who acts as a link between parties
diarist;someone who keeps a diary or journal
moaner;a person given to excessive complaints and crying
adulator;a person who uses flattery
kidnaper;someone who unlawfully seizes and detains a victim (usually for ransom)
laborer;someone who works with their hands
kota;a member of the dravidian people living in the nilgiri hills in s india
morpheus;(classical mythology) the god of sleep and dreams
arhant;a buddhist who has attained nirvana
official;administers rules of a game or sport
lover;a person who loves or is loved
private instructor;a person who gives private instruction (as in singing or acting)
junior;a third-year undergraduate
haida;a member of a seafaring group of north american indians who lived on the pacific coast of british columbia and sw alaska
bedesman;a person who is paid to pray for the soul of another
lawman;an officer of the law
dog;informal term for a man: 'you lucky dog'
romanian;a native or inhabitant of romania
earthman;an inhabitant of the earth
edmund spenser;(1552-1599) english poet
admirer;a person who backs a politician or a team etc.. 'all their supporters came out for the game'. 'they are friends of the library'
pusher;someone who sells illegal drugs
sunbather;someone who basks in the sunshine in order to get a suntan
trial attorney;a lawyer who specializes in defending clients before a court of law
bangladeshi;a native or inhabitant of bangladesh
sudra;a member of the lowest or worker hindu caste
saint peter the apostle;disciple of jesus. regarded by catholics as the vicar of christ on earth
hero worshiper;someone who worships heroes
outsider;someone who is not a member of a group
parthian;a native or inhabitant of parthia
licensed practical nurse;a nurse who has enough training to be licensed by a state to provide routine care for the sick
enlisted woman;a female enlisted person in the armed forces
scorer;an official who records the score during the progress of a game
bedlamite;an archaic term for a lunatic
shooter;a professional killer who uses a gun
quisling;someone who collaborates with an enemy occupying force
flag captain;the captain of a flagship
herod the great;(73-4 bc) king of judea who (according to the new testament) tried to kill jesus by ordering the death of all children under age two in bethlehem
clarinettist;a musician who plays the clarinet
francois rabelais;author of satirical attacks on medieval scholasticism (1494-1553)
recruiter;someone who gives advice about employment
immune;a person who is immune to a particular infection
hotel desk clerk;a hotel receptionist
major general;a general officer ranking above a brigadier general and below a lieutenant general
yahweh;a name for the old testament god as transliterated from the hebrew yhvh
lutheran;follower of lutheranism
highbrow;a person of intellectual or erudite tastes
tutelo;a member of the siouan people of virginia and north carolina
gynandromorph;one having both male and female sexual characteristics and organs
egomaniac;an abnormally egotistical person
gula;(babylonian) goddess of healing and consort of ninurta
murder suspect;someone suspected of committing murder
llyr;(welsh) corresponds to iris ler. father of manawydan
plaster saint;a person (considered to be) without human failings. 'he's no plaster saint'
goliath;someone who is abnormally large
conservator;the custodian of a collection (as a museum or library)
shavian;an admirer of g. b. shaw or his works
surveyor;an engineer who determines the boundaries and elevations of land or structures
entomologist;a zoologist who studies insects
mortgagee;the person who accepts a mortgage. 'the bank became our mortgagee when it accepted our mortage on our new home'
yogi;one who practices yoga and has achieved a high level of spiritual insight
sea rover;someone who robs at sea or plunders the land from the sea without having a commission from any sovereign nation
recorder;someone responsible for keeping records
chick;informal terms for a (young) woman
katari;a native or inhabitant of qatar
trigonometrician;a mathematician specializing in trigonometry
party girl;an attractive young woman hired to attend parties and entertain men
ute;a member of the shoshonean people of utah and colorado and new mexico
grandee;a nobleman of highest rank in spain or portugal
ward;a person who is under the protection or in the custody of another
fucker;someone who engages in sexual intercourse
brothel keeper;a woman who runs a house of prostitution
sham;a person who makes deceitful pretenses
preterist;a theologian who believes that the prophecies of the apocalypse have already been fulfilled
oligarch;one of the rulers in an oligarchy
executant;a performer (usually of musical works)
charon;(greek mythology) the ferryman who brought the souls of the dead across the the river styx or the river acheron to hades
junker;member of the prussian aristocracy noted especially for militarism
zarpanit;(babylonian) consort of marduk
wulfila;a christian bishop who translated the bible from greek into gothic (311-382)
silversmith;someone who makes or repairs articles of silver
loose woman;a woman adulterer
sweetheart;a very attractive or seductive looking woman
basketweaver;someone skilled in weaving baskets
scholar;someone (especially a child) who learns (as from a teacher)
secretary;an assistant who handles correspondence and clerical work for a boss or an organization
paleontologist;a specialist in paleontology
hothead;a reckless impetuous irresponsible person
sculpturer;an artist who creates sculptures
middleman;a person who is in a position to give you special assistance. 'he used his business contacts to get an introduction to the governor'
prick;(obscene) insulting terms of address
witness;someone who sees an event and tells what happened
naval engineer;an officer responsible for the operation and maintenance of the ship's engines
voice;an advocate who represents someone else's policy or purpose. 'the meeting was attended by spokespersons for all the major organs of government'
dialectician;a logician skilled in dialectic
counselor;a lawyer who pleads cases in court
virgin mary;the mother of jesus. christians refer to her as the virgin mary. she is especially honored by roman catholics
bidder;someone who makes a bid at cards
miracle worker;a person who claims or is alleged to perform miracles
picnicker;a person who is picnicking
schlemiel;a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
botanist;a biologist specializing in the study of plants
flyer;someone who travels by air
raftsman;someone who travels by raft
sceneshifter;a stagehand responsible for moving scenery
suspect;someone who is under suspicion
fillmore;elected vice president and became the 13th president of the united states when taylor died in office (1800-1874)
saint peter;disciple of jesus. regarded by catholics as the vicar of christ on earth
women s rightist;a supporter of feminism
porter;a railroad employee who assists passengers (especially on sleeping cars)
clovis;king of the franks and founder of the frankish monarchy (466-511)
strumpet;a woman adulterer
arranger;a person who organizes
health professional;a person who helps in identifying or preventing or treating illness or disability
survivor;one who lives through affliction. 'the survivors of the fire were taken to a hospital'
poet;a writer of poems
closet queen;a negative term for a homosexual man who chooses not to reveal his sexual orientation
shipboard soldier;a member of the us marine corps
centenarian;someone who is at least 100 years old
forewoman;a woman in charge of a group of workers
goffer;a zealously energetic person (especially a salesman)
driveller;someone whose talk is trivial drivel
herr;a german man. used before the name as a title equivalent to mr in english
vaulter;an athlete who jumps over a high crossbar with the aid of a long pole
overlord;a person who has general authority over others
mystic jewel;a member of the taoist trinity
creative person;a person whose creative work shows sensitivity and imagination
layabout;person who does no work
messenger boy;a boy who earns money by running errands
lieutenant colonel;a commissioned officer in the us army or air force or marines holding a rank above major and below colonel
diseased person;a person suffering from an illness
antiquarian;an expert or collector of antiquities
manager;someone who controls resources and expenditures
film maker;a producer of motion pictures
colonialist;a believer in colonialism
naysayer;someone with an aggressively negative attitude
edward ii;(1284-1327) king of england from 1307 to 1327 and son of edward i. was defeated at bannockburn by the scots led by robert the bruce. was deposed and died in prison
kidd;a scottish sea captain who was hired to protect british shipping in the indian ocean and then was accused of piracy and hanged (1645-1701)
jezebel;(9th century bc) wife of ahab who was king of israel. according to the old testament she was a cruel immoral queen who fostered the worship of baal and tried to kill elijah and other prophets of israel
fed;any federal law-enforcement officer
second adventist;a member of christian denomination that expects the imminent advent of christ
rumourmonger;a person given to gossiping
telepathist;someone with the power of communicating thoughts directly
bombshell;an entertainer who has a sensational effect. 'she was a blonde bombshell'
siouan;a member of a group of north american indian peoples who spoke a siouan language and who ranged from lake michigan to the rocky mountains
sin;(akkadian) god of the moon. counterpart of sumerian nanna
cat;a spiteful woman gossip. 'what a cat she is!'
kolkhoznik;a member of a kolkhoz
john donne;1572-1631
elf;(folklore) fairies that are somewhat mischievous
errand boy;a boy who earns money by running errands
rheumatologist;a physician specializing in rheumatic diseases
sailor boy;a serviceman in the navy
papist;a roman catholic who is a strong advocate of the papacy
tory;a supporter of traditional political and social institutions against the forces of reform. a political conservative
city boy;a city dweller with sophisticated manners
copycat;someone who copies the words or behavior of another
lunatic;a reckless impetuous irresponsible person
nanna;wife of balder
chinook;a member of an important north american indian people who controlled the mouth of the columbia river. they were organized into settlements rather than tribes
homeless person;someone with no housing. 'the homeless became a problem in the large cities'
judge advocate;an officer assigned to the judge advocate general
landscape gardener;someone who arranges features of the landscape or garden attractively
navigator;the ship's officer in charge of navigation
patroller;an individual or a member of a group that patrols an area
havasupai;a member of a north american indian people of cataract canyon (a tributary of the grand canyon) in arizona
nemesis;the goddess of divine retribution and vengeance
first lady;the wife of a chief executive
rembrandt;1606-1669
wine merchant;someone who sells wine
cambodian;a native or inhabitant of cambodia
bug hunter;a zoologist who studies insects
evacuee;a person who has been evacuated from a dangerous place
raja;a hindu prince or king in india
magellan;circa 1480-1521
scourer;someone who cleanses by scouring
male offspring;a child who is male
aryan;(according to nazi doctrine) a non-jewish caucasian person of nordic descent
leper;a pariah who is avoided by others
cannon fodder;soldiers who a regarded as expendable in the face of artillery fire
cabinetmaker;a woodworker who specializes in making furniture
refuse collector;someone employed to collect and dispose of refuse
heinrich hertz;german physicist who was the first to produce electromagnetic waves artificially (1857-1894)
pederast;a man who has sex with a boy
agricultural agent;an advisor employed by the government to assist people in rural areas with methods of farming and home economics
medical student;a student in medical school
seychellois;a native or inhabitant of seychelles
gaul;a celt of ancient gaul
torturer;someone who inflicts severe physical pain
pill head;a consumer of amphetamine pills
tartar;a fiercely vigilant and unpleasant woman
puke;a person who is deemed to be despicable or contemptible. 'only a rotter would do that'. 'kill the rat'. 'throw the bum out'. 'you cowardly little pukes!'
toll agent;someone employed to collect tolls
head teacher;the educator who has executive authority for a school. 'she sent unruly pupils to see the principal'
lewis carroll;english author. charles dodgson was an oxford don of mathematics who is remembered for the children's stories he wrote under the pen name lewis carroll (1832-1898)
watcher;a close observer. someone who looks at something (such as an exhibition of some kind). 'the spectators applauded the performance'. 'television viewers'. 'sky watchers discovered a new star'
snob;a person regarded as arrogant and annoying
goalkeeper;the hockey player assigned to protect the goal
process server;someone who personally delivers a process (a writ compelling attendance in court) or court papers to the defendant
lowbrow;a person who is uninterested in intellectual pursuits
pothead;someone who smokes marijuana habitually
flunky;a person of unquestioning obedience
aristarchus of samos;an ancient greek astronomer who was one of the first to propose a heliocentric theory of the universe (ca. 270 bc)
christopher;a christian martyr of the 3rd century. the patron saint of travellers
graphologist;a specialist in inferring character from handwriting
lord chancellor;the british cabinet minister who is head of the judiciary and speaker of the house of lords
peculator;someone who violates a trust by taking (money) for their own use
busker;a person who entertains people for money in public places (as by singing or dancing)
hothr;a blind god. misled by loki he kills balder by throwing a bough of mistletoe
libertine;a person (usually a man) who is morally unrestrained
damkina;(babylonian) earth goddess. consort of ea and mother of marduk
harding;29th president of the united states. two of his appointees were involved in the teapot dome scandal (1865-1823)
first sergeant;a sergeant in the army above the rank of staff sergeant and below master sergeant
holy joe;a chaplain in one of the military services
theologizer;someone who is learned in theology
hood;an aggressive young criminal
basketmaker;someone skilled in weaving baskets
snake;a deceitful or treacherous person
hare krishna;worshipper of krishna
shlockmeister;(slang) a merchant who deals in shoddy or inferior merchandise
iraqi;a native or inhabitant of iraq
real estate agent;a person who is authorized to act as an agent for the sale of land. 'in england they call a realtor a land agent'
cattleman;a man who raises (or tends) cattle
bisayan;a member of the most numerous indigenous people of the philippines
earth god;a god of fertility and vegetation
sir lancelot;(arthurian legend) one of the knights of the round table. friend of king arthur until (according to some versions of the legend) he became the lover of arthur's wife guinevere
gaul;a person of french descent
equerry;a personal attendant of the british royal family
goth;a crude uncouth ill-bred person lacking culture or refinement
lesbian;a resident of lesbos
moirai;the 3 goddesses of fate or destiny. identified with the roman parcae and similar to the norse norns
maestro;an artist of consummate skill
carver;an artist who creates sculptures
edward;king of the english from 1042 to 1066. reign marked by conflict with the normans
logomach;someone give to disputes over words
sharpy;an alert and energetic person
armenian;a native or inhabitant of armenia
cyprian;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
collaborator;someone who assists in a plot
comrade;a fellow member of the communist party
muslim;a believer or follower of islam
ninkharsag;(sumerian) the great mother goddess. worshipped also as aruru and mama and nintu
tackler;a football player who tackles the ball carrier
believer;a supporter who accepts something as true
organist;a person who plays an organ
fool;a person who lacks good judgment
roly poly;a rotund individual
graeco roman deity;a deity of classical mythology
neutralist;an advocate of neutrality in international affairs
kami;one the shinto deities (including mythological beings. spirits of distinguished men. forces of nature)
monk;a male religious living in a cloister and devoting himself to contemplation and prayer and work
sod;someone who engages in anal copulation (especially a male who engages in anal copulation with another male)
disagreeable person;a person who is not pleasant or agreeable
ironworker;a person who makes articles of iron
hotel clerk;a hotel receptionist
immigrant;a person who comes to country where they were not born in order to settle there
jailbird;a person serving a prison sentence
fairy;a disparaging term for an openly homosexual man
epileptic;a person who has epilepsy
barkeep;an employee who mixes and serves alcoholic drinks at a bar
mod;returns the root of number modulo divisor. the result will have the same sign as divisor.(british) a british teenager in the 1960s. noted for their clothes consciousness and opposition to the rockers
bacchante;(greek & roman mythology) a priestess or votary of bacchus
shop assistant;an employee in a shop
earner;someone who earn wages in return for their labor
palatine;any of various important officials in ancient rome
searcher;someone making a search or inquiry. 'they are seekers after truth'
forger;someone who makes copies illegally
busybody;a person who meddles in the affairs of others
fantast;someone who predicts the future
expatriate;voluntarily absent from home or country
waiter s assistant;a restaurant attendant who sets tables and assists waiters and clears away dirty dishes
literate;a person who can read and write
serjeant;an english barrister of the highest rank
petty officer;a noncommissioned officer in the navy with a rank comparable to sergeant in the army
nightingale;1820-1910
liberal;a person who favors a political philosophy of progress and reform and the protection of civil liberties
economic expert;an expert in the science of economics
cain;cain and abel were the first children of adam and eve born after the fall of man. cain killed abel out of jealousy and was exiled by god
drover;someone who drives a herd
grocery boy;a delivery boy for groceries
kiliwa;a member of a north american indian people living in n baja california
giant;a person of exceptional importance and reputation
massager;someone who rubs or kneads parts of the body to stimulate circulation and promote relaxation
dragoman;an interpreter and guide in the near east
stepdaughter;a daughter of your spouse by a former marriage
war bride;bride of a serviceman during wartime
ford;38th president of the united states. appointed vice president and succeeded nixon when nixon resigned (1913- )
mordvinian;a member of the agricultural people living in the central volga provinces of european russia
doormat;a person who is physically weak
charmer;someone with an assured and ingratiating manner
tight end;(football) an offensive end who lines up close to the tackle
ted;(brit) a tough youth of 1950's and 1960's wearing edwardian style clothes
mark antony;roman general under julius caesar in the gallic wars. repudiated his wife for the egyptian queen cleopatra. they were defeated by octavian at actium (83-30 bc)
justiciar;(british) formerly a high judicial officer
federal;any federal law-enforcement officer
outlier;a person who lives away from his place of work
tenor;an adult male with a tenor voice
linksman;someone who plays the game of golf
pig;a coarse obnoxious person
lifesaver;an attendant employed at a beach or pool to protect swimmers from accidents
chatterer;a very talkative person
gold digger;a miner who digs or pans for gold in a gold field
aesculapius;the god of medicine and healing
journeyer;goes on a trip
admiral;the supreme commander of a fleet. ranks above a vice admiral and below a fleet admiral
caroler;a singer of carols
musclebuilder;someone who does special exercises to develop the musculature
inciter;someone who deliberately foments trouble. 'she was the instigator of their quarrel'
posseman;an able-bodied man serving as a member of a posse
mariner;a man who serves as a sailor
night watchman;a watchman who works during the night
hunchback;a person whose back is hunched because of abnormal curvature of the upper spine
lilith;a female demon who attacks children
gallant;a man who is much concerned with his dress and appearance
fall guy;a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
paperboy;a boy who sells or delivers newspapers
skuld;goddess of fate: future
sponger;someone who takes advantage of the generosity of others
cadger;someone who mooches or cadges (tries to get something free)
bush;vice president under reagan and 41st president of the united states (1924- )
sponger;someone who mooches or cadges (tries to get something free)
hoaxer;someone who plays practical jokes on others
gagwriter;someone who writes comic material for public performers
tourist;someone who travels for pleasure
old timer;an experienced person. someone who has given long service
authority;an expert whose views are taken as definitive. 'he is an authority on corporate law'
fellow traveler;a traveler who accompanies you
idolatress;a woman idolater
reader;a person who enjoys reading
engels;wrote the communist manifesto with marx in 1848 (1820-1895)
crier;(formerly) an official who made public announcements
issue;the immediate descendants of a person. 'she was the mother of many offspring'. 'he died without issue'
dairyman;the owner or manager of a dairy
lakshmi;goddess of fortune
cofounder;one of a group of founders
bird watcher;a zoologist who studies birds
starter;the official who signals the beginning of a race or competition
slovenly woman;a dirty untidy woman
schoolfriend;a friend who attends the same school
applicant;a person who requests or seeks something such as assistance or employment or admission
sga infant;an infant whose size and weight are considerably less than the average for babies of the same age
crafter;a creator of great skill in the manual arts. 'the jewelry was made by internationally famous craftsmen'
gautama buddha;founder of buddhism. c 563-483 b.c.. worshipped as a god
ponka;a member of the siouan people of the missouri river valley in ne nebraska
little leaguer;a player between 8 and 12 years of age who is a member of a little-league team
foundling;a child who has been abandoned and whose parents are unknown
assignee;the party to whom something is assigned (e.g., someone to whom a right or property is legally transferred)
segregationist;someone who believes the races should be kept apart
panamanian;a native or inhabitant of panama
arminian;adherent of arminianism
knight banneret;a knight honored for valor. entitled to display a square banner and to hold higher command
chieftain;the head of a tribe or clan
tennessean;a resident of tennessee
inuit;a member of a people inhabiting the arctic (n canada or greenland or alaska or e siberia). the algonquians called them eskimo ('eaters of raw flesh') but they call themselves the inuit ('the people')
lessor;someone who grants a lease
louis xiii;(1601-1643) king of france from 1610 to 1643 who relied heavily on the advice of cardinal richelieu
polyandrist;a woman with two or more husbands
miwok;a member of the north american indian people living in the central sierra nevada in california
washout;(informal) someone who is unsuccessful
cartographer;a person who makes maps
ribhus;one of three artisans of the gods
goose;a stupid fool
mound builder;prehistoric amerindians who built altar mounds
prude;a person excessively concerned about propriety and decorum
voluntary;a person who freely enlist for military service
lush;a person who drinks alcohol to excess habitually
computer expert;an authority on computers and computing
shrew;a scolding nagging bad-tempered woman
sea nymph;(greek mythology) any of the 50 sea nymphs who were daughters of the sea god nereus
holy roller;a member of a religion that expresses ecstatic fervor
end;(football) the person who plays at one end of the line of scrimmage. 'the end managed to hold onto the pass'
field grade officer;an officer holding the rank of major or lieutenant colonel or colonel
otoe;a member of the siouan people inhabiting the valleys of the platte and missouri rivers in nebraska
young man;a man who is the lover of a girl or young woman. 'if i'd known he was her boyfriend i wouldn't have asked'
fedor dostoevski;russian novelist (1821-1881)
urd;goddess of fate: past
sharer;someone who takes a part or a share
youngster;a young person of either sex (between birth and puberty). 'she writes books for children'. 'they're just kids'. 'tiddler' is a british term for youngsters'
hotelman;an owner or manager of hotels
uranus;god of the heavens. son and husband of gaea and father of the titans in ancient mythology
alsatian;a native or inhabitant of alsace
officeholder;the official who holds an office
comforter;commiserates with someone who has had misfortune
middleweight;a wrestler who weighs 172-192 pounds
armiger;a squire carrying the armor of a knight
south african;a native or inhabitant of south africa
muckraker;one who spreads real or alleged scandal about another (usually for political advantage)
scoffer;someone who mocks or treats something with derision
nude;a naked person
interviewer;a person who conducts an interview
hindu;a native or inhabitant of hindustan or india
palooka;a second-rate prize fighter
byelorussian;a native or inhabitant of byelorussia
perfumer;a person who makes (and sells) perfumes
termagant;a scolding nagging bad-tempered woman
james matthew barrie;(1860-1937) scottish dramatist
highbinder;a corrupt politician
academician;a scholar who is skilled in academic disputation
ascendent;someone from whom you are descended (but usually more remote that a grandparent)
evaluator;an authority who is able to estimate worth or quality
palestinian;a descendant of the arabs who inhabited palestine
remittance man;an exile living on money sent from home
elizabeth;1926-
vote counter;an official appointed to count the votes (especially in legislative assembly)
nerthus;the teutonic goddess of fertility. later identified with norse njord
collegian;a student (or former student) at a college or university
romantic;an artist of the romantic period or someone influenced by romanticism
agronomist;an expert in soil management and field-crop production
narc;a lawman concerned with narcotics violations
suburbanite;someone who travels regularly from home to work in a city
sufferer;a person suffering from an illness
garment worker;a person who makes garments
wine steward;a waiter who manages wine service in a hotel or restaurant
taylor;12th president of the united states. died in office (1784-1850)
wool sorter;a person who sorts wool into different grades
signalman;a railroad employee in charge of signals and point in a railroad yard
victualer;a supplier of victuals or supplies to an army
outlaw;someone who has committed (or been legally convicted of) a crime
claim agent;one who investigates insurance claims or claims for damages and recommends an effective settlement
duelist;a person who fights duels
swazi;a member of a southeast african people living in swaziland and adjacent areas
uranologist;a physicist who studies astronomy
evildoer;a person who sins (without repenting)
vicar;(us episcopal church) a clergyman in charge of a chapel
church member;a religious person who goes to church regularly
bambino;a young child
stepsister;a sister who has only one parent in common with you
dog in the manger;someone who prevents you from enjoying something that they themselves have no need for
ne er do well;an idle worthless person
ninurta;(sumerian and babylonian) a solar deity. first-born of bel and consort was gula. god of war and the chase and agriculture. sometimes identified with biblical nimrod
nigerian;a native or inhabitant of nigeria
dribbler;a person who dribbles. 'that baby is a dribbler. he needs a bib'
semipro;an athlete who plays for pay on a part-time basis
insect;has a nasty or unethical character undeserving of respect
santee;a member of the eastern branch of the sioux
cuss;a boy or man. 'that chap is your host'. 'there's a fellow at the door'. 'he's a likable cuss'
vergil;(70-19 bc) a roman poet. author of the epic poem 'aeneid'
accompanyist;a person who provides musical accompaniment (usually on a piano)
wine waiter;a waiter who manages wine service in a hotel or restaurant
athabaskan;a member of any of the north american indian groups speaking an athapaskan language and living in the subarctic regions of western canada and central alaska
buccaneer;someone who robs at sea or plunders the land from the sea without having a commission from any sovereign nation
officer;any person in the armed services who holds a position of authority or command. 'an officer is responsible for the lives of his men'
exodontist;a dentist specializing in the extraction of teeth
king;a male sovereign. ruler of a kingdom
adjutant general;a general's adjutant. chief administrative officer
logistician;a person skilled at symbolic logic
revivalist;a preacher of the christian gospel
ranger;a member of a military unit trained as shock troops for hit-and-run raids
muleteer;a worker who drives mules
trapper;someone who traps animals for their furs
commoner;a person who holds no title
lady;a woman of aristocratic family
fire chief;the head of a fire department
trainman;an employee of a railroad
john adams;2nd president of the united states (1735-1826)
brigit;(irish) goddess of fire and fertility and agriculture and household arts and wisdom. later associated with saint bridget
cenobite;a member of a religious order living in common
ethnographer;an anthropologist who does ethnography
miss;a young woman. 'a young lady of 18'
eve;(old testament) adam's wife in judeo-christian mythology: the first woman and mother of the human race. god created eve from adam's rib and placed adam and even in the garden of eden
hayseed;not very intelligent or interested in culture
paragrapher;a writer of paragraphs (as for publication on the editorial page of a newspaper)
rent collector;a person who goes from house to house collecting rents for the owner
gleaner;someone who picks up grain left in the field by the harvesters
podiatrist;a specialist in care for the feet
saviour;a person who rescues you from harm or danger
sassenach;the scots' term for an english person
wingback;(football) the person who plays wingback
theosophist;a believer in theosophy
recidivist;someone who lapses into previous undesirable patterns of behavior
rare bird;a rare or unique person
miracle man;a person who claims or is alleged to perform miracles
carabineer;a soldier whose rifle is a carbine
geologist;a specialist in geology
edward lear;british artist and writer of nonsense verse (1812-1888)
admonisher;someone who gives a warning so that a mistake can be avoided
ivan petrovich pavlov;russian physiologist who observed conditioned salivary responses in dogs (1849-1936)
venus;goddess of love. counterpart of greek aphrodite
partner in crime;someone who assists in a plot
concierge;a french caretaker of apartments or a hotel. lives on the premises and oversees people entering and leaving and handles mail and acts as janitor or porter
matinee idol;someone who is adored blindly and excessively
defense attorney;the lawyer representing the defendant
descendent;a person considered as descended from some ancestor or race
dental practitioner;a person qualified to practice dentistry
repeater;someone who is repeatedly arrested for criminal behavior (especially for the same criminal behavior)
michigander;a resident of michigan
religious mystic;someone who believes in the existence of realities beyond human comprehension
drafter;a writer of a draft
dualist;an adherent of dualism
imposter;a person who makes deceitful pretenses
lapplander;an inhabitant of lappland
arsonist;a criminal who illegally sets fire to property
lutenist;a musician who plays the lute
genius loci;the guardian spirit of a place
jacobite;a supporter of james ii after he was overthrown or a supporter of the stuarts
arapahoe;a member of a north american plains people (now living in oklahoma and wyoming)
buff;an ardent follower
hasdrubal;general who commanded a carthaginian army in spain. joined his brother hannibal in italy and was killed by the romans at the battle of metaurus river (died 207 bc)
thug;an aggressive young criminal
fighter pilot;a military or naval pilot of fighter planes
displaced person;a person forced to flee from home or country
merry andrew;a person who amuses others by ridiculous behavior
square toes;(informal) a formal and conservative person with old-fashioned views
booster;someone who is an active supporter and advocate
secessionist;an advocate of secessionism
vassal;a person holding a fief
knacker;someone who buys up old horses for slaughter
technocrat;an advocate of technocracy
straight man;a performer who acts as stooge to a comedian
virginian;a resident of virginia
odd job man;a man skilled in various odd jobs and other small tasks
kaliph;the civil and religious leader of a muslim state. a successor of muhammad
groom;a man participant in his own marriage ceremony
newsdealer;someone who sells newspapers
syrian;a native or inhabitant of syria
den mother;a woman who supervises a den of cub scouts
czarina;the wife or widow of a czar
sister;a female person who has the same parents as another person. 'my sister married a musician'
notability;a celebrity who is an inspiration to others. 'he was host to a large gathering of luminaries'
latinist;a specialist in the latin language
water nymph;(greek mythology) any nymph of the water
born again christian;a christian who has experienced a dramatic conversion to faith in jesus
ereshkigal;(sumerian and akkadian) goddess of death and consort of nergal
precursor;a person who goes before or announces the coming of another
incendiary;a criminal who illegally sets fire to property
trencherman;a person who is devoted to eating and drinking to excess
freedman;a person who has been freed from slavery
brave;a north american indian warrior
knight templar;a man who belongs to a masonic order in the us
monitor;someone who supervises (an examination)
norse;an inhabitant of scandinavia
aeronaut;someone who operates and aircraft
napoleon bonaparte;1769-1821
skulker;someone waiting in concealment
scotchman;a native or inhabitant of scotland
subcontractor;someone who enters into a subcontract with the primary contractor
towny;resident of a college town not affiliated with the college
printmaker;an artist who designs and makes prints
waterman;someone who drives or rides in a boat
exhibitionist;someone with a compulsive desire to expose the genitals
mind;an intellectual being. 'the great minds of the 17th century'
dyaus pitar;god of the sky
valedictory speaker;the student with the best grades who delivers the valedictory at graduation
mexican;a native of inhabitant of mexico
benito mussolini;1883-1945
motile;one whose prevailing mental imagery takes the form of inner feelings of action
sister;(slang) sometimes used as a term of address for attractive young women
public defender;a lawyer who represents indigent defendants at public expense
anglo saxon deity;a deity worshipped by the anglo-saxons
pedaller;a person who rides a pedal-driven vehicle
idol worshiper;a person who worships idols
beauty consultant;someone who gives you advice about your personal appearance
magyar;a native or inhabitant of hungary
bibliophile;someone who loves (and usually collects) books
ningal;(akkadian) a goddess. wife of the moon god sin
track star;a star runner
steelmaker;a worker engaged in amking steel
mercury;(roman mythology) messenger of jupiter and god of commerce. counterpart of greek hermes
secretary of education;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of education. 'carter appointed shirley hufstedler as the first secretary of education'
civil leader;a leader in municipal affairs
rape suspect;someone who is suspected of committing rape
tunker;adherent of baptistic doctrines
pablo picasso;1881-1973
epicine;one having both male and female sexual characteristics and organs
storyteller;someone who tells a story
strangler;someone who kills by strangling
radiographer;a person who makes radiographs
indra;chief god of the rig-veda. god of rain and thunder
union representative;a representative for a labor union
devil s advocate;someone who takes the worse side just for the sake of argument
spirit;any incorporeal supernatural being that can become visible (or audible) to human beings
colonel blimp;any elderly pompous reactionary
king s counsel;counsel to the crown when the british monarch is a king
muscovite;a resident of moscow
partisan;an ardent and enthusiastic supporter of some person or activity
pledge taker;a volunteer who records (usually by phone) contributions pledged in a fund drive
grant;18th president of the united states. commander of the union armies in the american civil war (1822-1885)
antichrist;the adversary of christ (or christianity) mentioned in the new testament. the antichrist will rule the world until overthrown by the second coming of christ
nark;a lawman concerned with narcotics violations
pompey;roman general and statesman who quarrelled with caesar and fled to egypt where he was murdered
private detective;someone who can be employed as a detective to collect information
daniel;(old testament) a youth who was taken into the court of nebuchadnezzar and given divine protection when thrown into a den of lions
saint andrew the apostle;disciple of jesus. brother of peter. patron saint of scotland
narcissist;someone in love with themselves
prize winner;the winner of a lottery
passer;a football player who throws a forward pass
micmac;a member of the algonquian people formerly inhabiting the maritime provinces of canada
revolutionary;a radical supporter of political or social revolution
dockhand;a laborer who loads and unloads vessels in a port
transfer;someone who transfers or is transferred from one position to another. 'the best student was a transfer from lsu'
scourge of the gods;(406-453) king of the huns. the most successful barbarian invader of the roman empire
organization man;an employee who sacrifices his own individuality for the good of an organization
baby doctor;a specialist in the care of babies
blusterer;a person who causes trouble by speaking indiscreetly
celibate;an unmarried person who has taken a religious vow of chastity
complexifier;someone makes things complex
shiite muslim;a member of the branch of islam that regards ali as the legitimate successor to mohammed and rejects the first three caliphs
throwster;a person who twists silk or rayon filaments into a thread or yarn
henry david thoreau;1817-1862
reverend dodgson;english author. charles dodgson was an oxford don of mathematics who is remembered for the children's stories he wrote under the pen name lewis carroll (1832-1898)
muse;in ancient mythology any of 9 daughters of zeus and mnemosyne. protector of an art or science
bench warmer;(sports) a substitute who seldom plays
barnburner;someone who burns down a barn
g b shaw;1856-1950
fancier;a person having a strong liking for something
choreographer;someone who creates new dances (and may teach choreography)
girl friday;a female assistant who has a range of duties
dreamer;a person who escapes into a world of fantasy
biophysicist;a physicist who applies the methods of physics to biology
redskin;offensive terms for native americans
jugoslavian;a native or inhabitant of yugoslavia
thoth;ibis-headed moon deity. god of wisdom and learning and the arts. scribe of the gods
damozel;a young unmarried woman
whiz kid;someone whose career progresses rapidly
sucker;someone who drinks by sucking or sipping
aleut;a member of the people inhabiting the aleutian islands and w alaska
dj;a person who announces and plays popular recorded music
movie maker;a producer of motion pictures
cowpuncher;a hired hand who tends cattle and performs other duties on horseback
crammer;a teacher who is paid to cram students for examinations
nergal;(akkadian) god ruling with his consort ereshkigal the world of the dead
thomas nast;american political cartoonist (1840-1902)
moneymaker;someone who is successful in accumulating wealth
tuner;someone who tunes pianos
trained nurse;someone who has completed the course of study (including hospital practice) at a nurses training school
music critic;a critic of musical performances
lauder;someone who communicates high praise
chased;a person who is being chased. 'the film jumped back and forth from the pursuer to the pursued'
yugoslavian;a native or inhabitant of yugoslavia
honore de balzac;french novelist. he portrays the complexity of 19th century french society (1799-1850)
gamal abdel nasser;egyptian statesman who nationalized the suez canal (1918-1870)
ojibwa;a member of an algonquian people who lived w of lake superior
lancastrian;a resident of lancaster
goof off;an idle worthless person
rail splitter;a laborer who splits logs to build split-rail fences
shortstop;(baseball) the person who plays the shortstop position
successor;a person who inherits some title or office
heiress;a female heir
fumbler;someone who makes mistakes because of incompetence
family man;a man whose family is of major importance in his life
rube;not very intelligent or interested in culture
prebendary;a canon who receives a prebend for serving the church
borderer;an inhabitant of a border area (especially the border between scotland and england)
coleridge;1772-1834
excavator;a worker who excavates for foundations of buildings or for quarrying
forecaster;someone who makes predictions of the future
humourist;acts speaks or writes in an amusing way
cherub;a sweet innocent baby
emotional person;a person subject to strong states of emotion
master;presiding officer of a school
eye doctor;a medical doctor specializing in the treatment of diseases of the eye
bell founder;a person who casts metal bells
battler;someone who fights (or is fighting)
nester;someone who settles lawfully on government land with the intent to acquire title to to it
godfather;someone having a relation analogous to that of a male sponsor to his godchild
boy;a male human offspring. 'their son became a famous judge'. 'his boy is taller than he is'
signer;someone who can use sign language to communicate
sunnite;a member of the branch of islam that accepts the first four caliphs as rightful successors to mohammed
pariah;a person who is rejected (from society or home)
testatrix;a female testator
social secretary;a personal secretary who handles your social correspondence and appointments
concert goer;someone who attends concerts
johann sebastian bach;(1685-1750) german composer and organist
modernist;an artist who makes a deliberate break with previous styles
hawkshaw;(informal) someone who is a detective
pursuer;the person who is pursuing and trying to overtake someone. 'always before he had been able to outwit his pursuers'
miami;a member of the extinct algonquian people formerly living in n indian and s michigan
armorer;an enlisted man responsible for the upkeep of small arms and machine guns etc.
sinologist;a student of chinese history and language and culture
shahaptian;a member of a north american indian people who lived in oregon along the columbia river and its tributaries in washington and n idaho
belt maker;a maker of belts
staff sergeant;a noncommissioned officer ranking above corporal and below sergeant first class in the army or marines or above airman 1st class in the air force
healer;a person skilled in a particular type of therapy
pettifogger;a disputant who quibbles
muskogean;a member of any of the peoples formerly living in se us and speaking muskhogean languages
worshiper;admires too much to recognize faults
gaucho;a cowboy of the south american pampas
soprano;a female singer
confederate soldier;a soldier in the army of the confederacy during the american civil war
slopseller;(british) a dealer in cheap ready-made clothing
south carolinian;a resident of south carolina
embodiment;ny new embodiment of a familiar idea. 'the incarnation of evil'. 'the very avatar of cunning'
prickteaser;a seductive woman who uses her sex appeal to exploit men
art dealer;a dealer in works of art requiring esthetic evaluation
stockist;one (as a retailer or distributor) that stocks goods
scalawag;white southerner supporting reconstruction policies after the civil war usually for self-interest
berliner;an inhabitant of berlin
profligate;a dissolute man in fashionable society
civil rights leader;a leader of the political movement dedicated to securing equal opportunity for members of minority groups
pinko;emotionally charged terms used to refer to extreme radicals
liar;a person who has lied or who lies repeatedly
elitist;someone who believes in rule by an elite group
computer scientist;a scientist who specializes in the theory of computation and the design of computers
bartender;an employee who mixes and serves alcoholic drinks at a bar
crowned head;the ruler of a nation
pretender;a person who makes deceitful pretenses
child prodigy;an extremely talented young man
sappho;the greek lyric poet of lesbos. much admired although only fragments of her poetry have been preserved (6th century bc)
lounger;someone who wastes time
lassie;a girl or young woman who is unmarried
abdicator;one who formally relinquishes and office or responsibility
roisterer;an especially noisy and unrestrained merrymaker
cavalryman;a soldier in a motorized army unit
fusilier;(formerly) a british infantryman armed with a light flintlock musket
oceanographer;a scientist who studies physical and biological aspects of the seas
juvenile;a youthful person
countrywoman;a woman from your own country
bookmaker;a maker of books. someone who edits or publishes or binds books
john glenn;made the first orbital rocket-powered flight by a us astronaut in 1962. later in us senate
zombi;(voodooism) a spirit or supernatural force that reanimates a dead body
nonentity;a person of no influence
string bean;a tall thin person
leibnitz;1646-1716
cub;an awkward and inexperienced youth
homegirl;a fellow female member of a youth gang
catechist;one who instructs catechumens in preparation for baptism
zachary taylor;12th president of the united states. died in office (1784-1850)
counterman;someone who attends a counter (as in a diner)
taskmaster;someone who imposes hard or continuous work
bel;(babylonian) god of the earth. one of the supreme triad including anu and ea. earlier identified with en-lil
hag;an ugly evil-looking old woman
wallis warfield simpson;american divorcee whose marriage to edward viii created a constitutional crisis leading to his abdication
new englander;an american who lives in new england
rabble rouser;an orator who appeals to the passions and prejudices of his audience
publisher;the proprietor of a newspaper
drudge;one who works hard at boring tasks
paraplegic;a person who has paraplegia (is paralyzed from the waist down)
frey;god of earth's fertility and peace and prosperity. son of njorth and brother of freya. originally of the vanir. later with the aesir
wizard;someone who is very highly skilled
hearing examiner;an official appointed by a government agency to conduct an investigation or administrative hearing so that the agency can exercise its statutory powers
hermit;one who lives in solitude
amputee;someone who has had a limb removed by amputation
outcast;a person who is rejected (from society or home)
guardian angel;an angel believed to have special affection for a particular individual
bismarck;(1815-1898) german statesman under whose leadership germany was united
artist;a person whose creative work shows sensitivity and imagination
north korean;a korean from north korea
patrilineal kin;one related on the father's side
most valuable player;the player judged to be the most important to the sport
assassin;a hired murderer
surrogate;someone who takes the place of another person
ectomorph;a person with a thin non-muscular body
daniel boone;(1734-1820) an american pioneer and guide and explorer
ladylove;a beloved lady
tzar;a male monarch or emperor (especially of russia prior to 1917)
bookbinder;a worker whose trade is binding books
climber;someone seeking social prominence by obsequious behavior
haussa;a member of a negroid people living chiefly in n nigeria
accoucheuse;a woman skilled in aiding the delivery of babies
geisha;a japanese woman trained to entertain men with conversation and singing and dancing
quitter;a person who gives up too easily
punk;a performer (or enthuiast) of punk rock
wit;(informal) a witty amusing person who makes jokes
parisian;a resident of paris
minerva;(roman mythology) goddess of wisdom. counterpart of greek athena
sower;someone who sows
dabbler;an amateur who engages in an activity without serious intentions
federalist;an advocate of federalism
star;a performer who receives prominent billing
the devil;(judeo-christian religion) chief spirit of evil and adversary of god. tempter of mankind. master of hell
indian;a native or inhabitant of india
efficiency expert;an expert in increasing the efficient use of machines and personnel
commercial artist;an illustrator who is supported by advertising
lady godiva;according to legend she rode naked through coventry in order to persuade her husband not to tax the townspeople so heavily (1040-1080)
misfit;someone unable to adapt to their circumstances
ruralist;an advocate of rural living
goldbrick;an idle worthless person
woman s doctor;a specialist in gynecology
archimandrite;the superior of an abbey of monks
blocker;a football player whose responsibility is to block players attempting to stop an offensive play
redheader;someone who has red hair
indianan;a resident of indiana
laggard;someone who takes more time than necessary
king;a competitor who holds a preeminent position
welsher;someone who swindles you by not repaying a debt or wager
woodsman;someone who lives in the woods
trend setter;someone who popularizes a new fashion
hack writer;a mediocre and disdained writer
jaywalker;a reckless pedestrian who crosses a street illegally
stableman;someone employed in a stable to take care of the horses
target;a person who is the victim of ridicule or exploitation by some hostile person or influence. 'he fell prey to muggers'. 'everyone was fair game'
appointee;a person who is appointed to a job or position
vice regent;a regent's deputy
patriarch;the head of family or tribe
forest fire fighter;an official who is responsible for managing and protecting an area of forest
barmaid;a female bartender
villain;a wicked or evil person
pain in the neck;a bothersome annoying person. 'that kid is a terrible pain'
plagiarist;someone who uses another person's words or ideas is they were his own
victor hugo;(1802-1885) leader of the romantic movement in france
captain kidd;a scottish sea captain who was hired to protect british shipping in the indian ocean and then was accused of piracy and hanged (1645-1701)
lao tse;chinese philosopher who founded taoism. 6th-century b.c.
tree farmer;someone trained in forestry
benedictine;a monk or nun belonging to the order founded by saint benedict of nursia
golf player;someone who plays the game of golf
econometrician;an economist who uses statistical and mathematical methods
norse deity;a deity worshipped by the ancient norsemen
viceroy;governor of a country or province who rules as the representative of his or her king or sovereign
wen ti;chinese god of literature
sniper;a marksman who shoots at people from a concealed place
professional;a person engaged in one of the learned professions
jurywoman;someone who serves (or waits to be called to serve) on a jury
gent;informal abbreviation of 'gentleman'
stoker;a person who tends fires
sort;a person of a particular character or nature. 'what sort of person is he?'. 'he's a good sort'
newcomer;a recent arrival. 'he's a newcomer to boston'
nigerien;a native or inhabitant of niger
albino;a person with albinism: white hair and pink eyes and milky skin
armin;german hero. leader at the battle of teutoburger wald in 9 ad (circa 18 bc - 19 ad)
torricelli;italian physicist who invented the mercury barometer
wool stapler;a dealer in wool
contrarian;an investor who deliberately decides to go against the prevailing wisdom of other investors
self seeker;a person who places expediency above principle
bugologist;a zoologist who studies insects
oengus;(irish) god of love and beauty. patron deity of young men and women
jagannatha;an avatar of vishnu
cloakmaker;someone whose occupation is making or repairing fur garments
kid;a young person of either sex (between birth and puberty). 'she writes books for children'. 'they're just kids'. 'tiddler' is a british term for youngsters'
inquirer;someone who asks a question
caricaturist;someone who parodies in an exaggerated manner
packer;a worker who packs things into containers
monarch;the ruler of a nation
runner;a person who is employed to deliver messages or documents. 'he sent a runner over with the contract'
laureate;someone honored for great achievements. figuratively someone crowned with a laurel wreath
zombie;someone who acts or responds in a mechanical or apathetic way. 'only an automaton wouldn't have noticed'
scotsman;a native or inhabitant of scotland
advisor;an expert who gives advice
obscurantist;a person who is deliberately vague
sierra leonian;a native or inhabitant of sierra_leone
smith;someone who works metal (especially by hammering it when it is hot and malleable)
paramour;a woman who cohabits with an important man
foremother;a woman ancestor
idolater;a person who worships idols
indira gandhi;(1917-1984) daughter of nehru who served as prime minister of india from 1966 to 1977
pothunter;a nonprofessional archeologist
triumvir;one of a group of three sharing public administration or civil authority especially in ancient rome
confectioner;someone who makes candies and other sweets
zombie;a god of voodoo cults of african origin worshipped especially in w indies
puppet;a person who is used to perform unpleasant or dishonest tasks for someone else
ull;one of the aesir known for his beauty and skill with bow and skis. son of sif and stepson of thor
hatmaker;someone who makes and sells hats
alexander the great;(356-323 bc) king of macedon. conqueror of greece and egypt and persia. founder of alexandria
anthropophagus;a person who eats human flesh
telugu;a member of the people in southeastern india (andhra pradesh) who speak the telugu language
hard worker;someone who works as hard as a slave
subversive;a radical supporter of political or social revolution
sucker;a person who is gullible and easy to take advantage of
archbishop;a bishop of highest rank
seleucus;macedonian general who accompanied alexander the great into asia. founded a line of kings who reigned in asia minor until 65 bc (358-281 bc)
housefather;a man in charge of children in an institution
jimdandy;someone excellent of their kind. 'he's a jimdandy of a soldier'
shuffler;someone who walks without raising the feet
americus vespucius;florentine navigator who explored the coast of south america. america was named in his honor (1454-1512)
brunette;a person with dark (brown) hair
stamp dealer;a dealer in stamps (whose customers are stamp collectors)
sculptress;a woman sculptor
past master;someone who has long and thorough experience in a given activity
huntsman;someone who hunts game
sir galahad;(arthurian legend) the most virtuous knight of the round table. was able to see the holy grail
peasant;a crude uncouth ill-bred person lacking culture or refinement
rupert;a german-born english leader of the royalist forces during the english civil war (1619-1682)
sales demonstrator;someone who demonstrates an article to a prospective buyer
grease monkey;someone whose occupation is repairing and maintaining automobiles
hack;a mediocre and disdained writer
martin luther;german theologian who led the reformation. believed that salvation is granted on the basis of faith rather than deeds (1483-1546)
bondman;a male bound to serve without wages
reverend;a spiritual leader of the christian church
hodr;a blind god. misled by loki he kills balder by throwing a bough of mistletoe
chess player;someone who plays the game of chess
identical twin;twins developed from the same fertilized ovum (having the same genetic material)
cover girl;a very pretty girl who works as a photographer's model
yahveh;a name for the old testament god as transliterated from the hebrew yhvh
dreyfus;(1859-1935) french army officer of jewish descent whose false imprisonment for treason in 1894 raised issues of anti-semitism that dominated french politics until his release in 1906
heinrich rudolph hertz;german physicist who was the first to produce electromagnetic waves artificially (1857-1894)
peer;(british) a nobleman (duke or marquis or earl or viscount or baron) who is a member of the british peerage
hermaphrodite;one having both male and female sexual characteristics and organs
kodagu;a member of an aboriginal people living in the hills in se india
syntactician;a linguist who specializes in the study of grammar and syntax
extension agent;an advisor employed by the government to assist people in rural areas with methods of farming and home economics
amir;an independent ruler or chieftain (especially in africa or arabia)
darkie;offensive term for black people
lady of the house;a wife who keeps house while her husband earns the family income
emile zola;(1840-1902) french novelist and critic. defender of dreyfus
deceiver;someone who leads you to believe something that is not true
matman;tries to throw opponent to the ground
mr;a form of address for a man
twirler;(baseball or softball) the person who does the pitching. 'our pitcher has a sore arm'
liege;a person holding a fief
wilhelm richard wagner;(1813-1883) german composer
quartermaster general;a staff officer in charge of supplies for a whole army
conceiver;someone who creates new things
accessory before the fact;a person who procures or advises or commands the commission of a felony but who is not present at its perpetration
fossil;(informal) someone whose style is out of fashion
caitiff;(archaic) a cowardly and despicable person
forger;someone who operates a forge
necessitarian;someone who does not believe the doctrine of free will
vamper;a seductive woman who uses her sex appeal to exploit men
draftsperson;a skilled worker who draws plans of buildings or machines
good speller;someone who spells words
deserter;a disloyal person who forsakes his cause or religion or political party or friend etc.
minority leader;leader of the minority party in a legislature
laudator;someone who communicates high praise
baby farmer;someone who runs an establishment that houses and cares for babies for a fee
jingo;an extreme bellicose nationalist
snot;a person regarded as arrogant and annoying
saint james;disciple of jesus. brother of john. author of the epistle of james in the new testament
rock star;a famous singer of rock music
tartuffe;a hypocrite who pretends to religious piety (after the protagonist in a play by moliere)
john wesley;founder of methodism (1703-1791)
jonah;(old testament) jonah did not wish to become a prophet so god caused a great storm to throw him overboard from a ship. he was saved by being swallowed by a whale that vomited him out onto dry land
hostess;a woman host
thatcher;someone skilled in making a roof from plant stalks or foliage
personification;one who personifies an abstract quality
american;a native or inhabitant of the united states
juggler;a performer who juggles objects and performs tricks of manual dexterity
bay stater;a resident of massachusetts
andrew carnegie;(1835-1919) american industrialist and philanthropist
plenipotentiary;a diplomat who is fully authorized to represent his or her government
old man;a familiar term of address for a man
coaster;a resident of a coastal area
plainsman;an inhabitant of a plains region (especially the great plains of north america)
canonist;a specialist in canon law
hoyden;a girl who behaves in a boyish manner
colossus;a person of exceptional importance and reputation
robert oppenheimer;american physicist who directed the project at los alamos that developed the first atomic bomb (1904-1967)
georg friedrich handel;(1685-1759) a prolific german composer noted for his oratorios
tennis player;an athlete who plays tennis
chambermaid;a maid who is employed to clean and care for bedrooms (now primarily in hotels)
dipsomaniac;a person who drinks alcohol to excess habitually
tennis coach;a coach of tennis players
freeloader;someone who takes advantage of the generosity of others
chemist;a health professional trained in the art of preparing and dispensing drugs
matoaka;a powhatan indian woman (the daughter of powhatan) who befriended the english at jamestown and is said to have saved captain john smith's life (1595-1617)
automaton;someone who acts or responds in a mechanical or apathetic way. 'only an automaton wouldn't have noticed'
penny pincher;someone who is excessively careful with money (who pinches every penny before letting go of it)
prima donna;a female operatic star
knacker;someone who buys old buildings or ships and breaks them up to recover the materials in them
malcolm x;1925-1965
collaborator;an associate who works with others toward a common goal
mortician;one whose business is the management of funerals
master;holds masters degree from academic institution
mister;a form of address for a man
urania;goddess of love. counterpart of greek aphrodite
swell;a man who is much concerned with his dress and appearance
adversary;someone who offers opposition
matricide;a person who murders their mother
suffragan;an assistant or subordinate bishop of a diocese
fellow;a boy or man. 'that chap is your host'. 'there's a fellow at the door'. 'he's a likable cuss'
noncommissioned officer;a military officer appointed from enlisted personnel
fire fighter;a member of a fire department who tries to extinguish fires
jacobean;any distinguished personage during the reign of james i of england
north american;a native or inhabitant of north america
spellbinder;an orator who can hold his listeners spellbound
inpatient;a patient who is residing in the hospital where he is being treated
transsexual;a person whose sexual identification is entirely with the opposite sex
beldame;an ugly evil-looking old woman
hitchhiker;a person who travels by getting free rides from passing vehicles
earth goddess;a goddess of fertility and vegetation
caucasian;a member of the caucasoid race
outcaste;a person belonging to no caste
puck;a mischievous sprite
garibaldi;italian patriot whose conquest of sicily and naples led to the formation of the italian state (1807-1882)
defaulter;someone who fails to meet a financial obligation
chaucer;(1340-1400) english poet remembered as author of the canterbury tales
frotteur;someone who masturbates by rubbing against another person (as in a crowd)
letter writer;someone who communicates by means of letters
white slave;a woman sold into prostitution
lamia;(folklore) a corpse that rises at night to drink the blood of the living
puppeteer;one who operates puppets or marionettes
human;"a human being. 'there was too much for one person to do'"
vagabond;a person who has no fixed home
uncle tom;contemptuous name for a black man who is abjectly servile and deferential to whites
dalton;english chemist and physicist who formulated atomic theory and the law of partial pressures (1766-1844)
dip;a thief who steals from the pockets or purses of others in public places
native;a person who was born in a particular place
conferee;a member of a conference
jeremiah;an israelite prophet in the old testament who is remembered for his angry lamentations (jeremiads) about the wickedness of his people
tinker;someone who is employed to repair broken things
jimmy carter;39th president of the united states (1924- )
brother;(roman catholic) a title given to a monk and used as form of address. 'a benedictine brother'
interpreter;an advocate who represents someone else's policy or purpose. 'the meeting was attended by spokespersons for all the major organs of government'
farsi;a person of iranian descent. 'many farsi emigrated to india near bombay'
peeper;a viewer who enjoys seeing the sex acts or sex organs of others
samurai;a japanese warrior who was a member of the feudal military aristocracy
vip;an important or influential person
relief;someone who takes the place of another (as when things get dangerous or difficult). 'the star had a stand-in for dangerous scenes'. 'we need extra employees for summer fill-ins'
liveryman;a worker in a livery stable
crossing guard;someone who helps people (especially children) at a traffic crossing
grocer;a merchant who sells foodstuffs (and some household supplies)
tormentor;someone who torments
secretary of agriculture;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of agriculture. 'the first secretary of agriculture was norman j. colman, who was appointed by cleveland'
punter;someone who bets
worshipper;a person who has religious faith
emcee;a person who acts as host at formal occasions (makes an introductory speech and introduces other speakers)
sportswoman;someone who engages in sports
graduate student;a student who continues studies after graduation
eastern sioux;a member of the eastern branch of the sioux
jinni;a spirit believed by muslims to inhabit the earth and influence mankind by appearing in the form of humans or animals
irish person;a native or inhabitant of ireland
victoria;goddess of victory. counterpart of greek nike
spook;someone unpleasantly strange or eccentric
magus;a member of the zoroastrian priesthood of the ancient persians
coal miner;someone who works in a coal mine
arcadian;an inhabitant of arcadia
sherlock;someone who can be employed as a detective to collect information
city father;an important municipal official
maharanee;a great rani. a princess in india or the wife of a maharaja
loon;a person with confused ideas. incapable of serious thought
ki;(sumerian) goddess personifying earth. counterpart of akkadian aruru
tentmaker;someone who makes or repairs tents
bedfellow;a person with whom you share a bed
betsy ross;said to have made the first american flag at the request of george washington (1752-1836)
fisher;someone whose occupation is catching fish
paranoid;a person afflicted with paranoia
player;a person who participates in or is skilled at some game
partisan;a fervent and even militant proponent of something
music lover;someone who attends concerts
karttikeya;god of bravery
mechanic;someone whose occupation is repairing and maintaining automobiles
journalist;a writer for newspapers and magazines
slouch;an incompetent person. usually used in negative constructions: 'he's no slouch when it comes to baseball'
easy mark;a defenseless victim
lineman;the surveyor who marks positions with a range pole
heretic;a person who holds religious beliefs in conflict with the dogma of the roman catholic church
underachiever;a student who does not perform as well as the iq indicates
independent;a neutral or uncommitted person (especially in politics)
underclassman;an undergraduate who is not yet a senior
gandhi;(1869-1948) political and spiritual leader during india's struggle with great britain for home rule. an advocate of passive resistance
proprietor;someone who owns (is legal possessor of) a business. 'he is the owner of a chain of restaurants'
boss;a person who exercises control over workers. 'if you want to leave early you have to ask the foreman'
doctor;a leading theologian in the history of the roman catholic church. 'the doctors of the church greatly influenced christian thought down to the late middle ages'
begum;a muslim woman of high rank in india or pakistan
whistler;makes a loud high sound
deb;a young woman making her debut into society
bondholder;a holder of bonds issued by a government or corporation
seer;a person with unusual powers of foresight
calvin;french-born swiss theologian whose tenets defined presbyterianism (1509-1564)
don;a spanish title of respect for a gentleman or nobleman
paranoiac;a person afflicted with paranoia
snake god;a god of voodoo cults of african origin worshipped especially in w indies
kike;ethnic slur. offensive term for a jew
principal;an actor who plays a principal role
choirmaster;the musical director of a choir
odalisque;a woman who cohabits with an important man
ratepayer;someone who pays taxes
cynthia;(greek mythology) the virgin goddess of the hunt and the moon. daughter of leto and twin sister of apollo. identified with roman diana
quakeress;a woman quaker
guide;someone employed to conduct others
cornelis jansen;roman catholic theologian (1585-1638)
spenser;(1552-1599) english poet
composer;composes music as a profession
benedick;a newly married man (especially one who has long been a bachelor)
winnebago;a member of the siouan-speaking people formerly living in e wisconsin south of green bay. ally of the menomini and enemy of the fox and sauk people
first lieutenant;a commissioned officer in the army or air force or marines ranking above a 2nd lieutenant and below a captain
cleric;a clergyman or other person in religious orders
brass hat;a high-ranking military officer
master sergeant;a senior noncommissioned officer in the army or air force or marines
charles pierre baudelaire;a french poet noted for macabre imagery and evocative language (1821-1867)
circe;(greek mythology) a sorceress who detained odysseus on her island and turned his men into swine
wet blanket;(informal) someone who spoils the pleasure of others
greaseball;ethnic slur. offensive terms for a person of italian descent
carouser;enjoys riotous drinking
bourgeois;engages in industrial commercial enterprise
aquanaut;an underwater swimmer equipped with a face mask and foot fins and either a snorkel or an air cylinder
mope;someone who wastes time
vajra;indras's thunderbolt
worshipper;admires too much to recognize faults
major leaguer;a member of a major-league baseball team
basotho;a member of a subgroup of people who inhabit lesotho
teetotaller;a total abstainer
ryukyuan;a member of the japanese people living on the ryukyu islands sw of japan
pedant;a person who pays more attention to formal rules and book learning than they merit
legionnaire;a soldier who is a member of a legion (especially the french foreign legion)
scipio the elder;roman general who commanded the invasion of carthage in the second punic war and defeated hannibal at zama (circa 237-183 bc)
varmint;an irritating or obnoxious person
gunslinger;a professional killer who uses a gun
fancy man;a woman's lover
racine;1639-1699
galoot;a disreputable or clumsy man
maenad;an unnaturally frenzied or distraught woman
speed cop;a policeman who rides a motorcycle (and who checks the speeds of motorists)
redeemer;a prophet of the first century (circa 8 bc - 29 ad). to christians he was both god and man--the messiah sent to save the human race from the sin it inherited through the fall of man
aliterate person;a person who can read but is disinclined to derive information from literary sources
allah;muslim name for god
con;a person serving a prison sentence
frigg;goddess of the heavens and married love. wife of odin
malaysian;a native or inhabitant of malaysia
arms runner;a smuggler of guns
jerry builder;someone who builds cheap buildings out of poor materials on speculation for a quick profit
secretary of defense;the person who holds the secretaryship of the defense department. 'the first defense secretary was james v. forrestal who was appointed by truman'
commanding officer;an officer in command of a military unit
plaintiff in error;the party who appeals a decision of a lower court
copartner;a joint partner (as in a business enterprise)
abstainer;refrains from intoxicating beverages
peer;a person who is of equal standing with another in a group
fomenter;one who agitates. a political troublemaker
wallflower;remains on sidelines at social event
orientalist;a specialist in oriental subjects
companion;one paid to accompany or assist or live with another
viscount;a british peer who ranks below an earl and above a baron
octogenarian;someone whose age is in the eighties
portraitist;a painter of portraits
peking man;a primitive man found near beijing. resembles java man
weisenheimer;an upstart who makes conceited, sardonic, insolent comments
mercer;(british) a dealer in textiles (especially silks)
berber;a member of a caucasoid muslim people of northern africa
chimneysweeper;someone who cleans soot from chimneys
altar boy;a boy serving as an acolyte
sod;(british) 'the poor sod couldn't even buy a drink'
namesake;a person with the same name as another
queen regnant;a female sovereign ruler
religious outcast;a person who holds religious beliefs in conflict with the dogma of the roman catholic church
dr.;a person who holds ph.d. degree from an academic institution. 'she is a doctor of philosophy in physics'
washer;someone who washes things for a living
prey;a person who is the victim of ridicule or exploitation by some hostile person or influence. 'he fell prey to muggers'. 'everyone was fair game'
lubber;an inexperienced sailor. a sailor on the first voyage
tap dancer;a dancer who who sounds out rhythms by using metal taps on the toes and heels of the shoes
richelieu;(1585-1642) french prelate and statesman. principal minister to louis xiii
augur;(in ancient rome) a religious official who interpreted omens to guide public policy
compatriot;a person from your own country
television reporter;someone who reports news stories via television
sponge;a follower who hangs around in hope of gain or advantage
dindymene;great nature goddess of ancient phrygia in asia minor. counterpart of greek rhea and roman ops
film producer;a producer of motion pictures
kibbutznik;a member of a kibbutz
model;a person who poses for a photographer or painter or sculptor. 'the president didn't have time to be a model so the artist worked from photos'
teleologist;advocate of teleology
draco;athenian lawmaker (7th century) whose code of laws prescribed death for almost every offense
lexicologist;a compiler or writer of a dictionary
bigwig;the most important person in a group or undertaking
urchin;poor and often mischievous city child
lead;an actor who plays a principal role
slaver;someone who owns slaves
critic;a person who is professionally engaged in the analysis and interpretation of works of art
laozi;chinese philosopher who founded taoism. 6th-century b.c.
lysimachus;macedonian general under alexander the great. with seleucus he defeated antigonus and demetrius at the battle of ipsus (circa 355-281 bc)
transmitter;someone who transmits a message. 'return to sender'
first offender;someone convicted for the first time
brahmin;a member of a social and cultural elite especially a descendant of an old new england family: 'a boston brahmin'
attacker;someone who attacks
gregor mendel;founder of the science of genetics (1822-1884)
lieutenant;a commissioned military officer
casualty;someone injured or killed or captured or missing in a military engagement
east sider;a resident of the east side of manhattan in new york city
left fielder;the person who plays left field
sleeper;a person who is sleeping
fungi;(pun) the one who buys the drinks
pallbearer;one of the mourners carrying the coffin at a funeral
triplet;one of three offspring born at the same time
standup comedian;a comedian who uses gags
aborigine;the earliest known inhabitants of a region
luminary;a celebrity who is an inspiration to others. 'he was host to a large gathering of luminaries'
grandma;the mother of your father or mother
observer;an expert who observes and comments on something
god;the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe. the object of worship in monotheistic religions
griot;a storyteller in w africa. perpetuates the oral traditions of a family or village
nestling;a young person of either sex (between birth and puberty). 'she writes books for children'. 'they're just kids'. 'tiddler' is a british term for youngsters'
teaser;someone given to teasing (as by mocking or stirring curiosity)
superior;the head of a religious community
chatelaine;the mistress of a chateau or large country house
ma am;a woman of refinement
pascal;french mathematician and philosopher. invented an adding machine. contributed (with fermat) to the theory of probability (1623-1662)
patriarch;any of the early biblical characters regarded as fathers of the human race
mentor;a wise and trusted guide and advisor
montanan;a resident of montana
ambassador;a diplomat of the highest rank. accredited as representative from one country to another
flight engineer;the flight crewman responsible for mechanical operation while in flight
quine;1908-
road builder;someone whose business is to build roads
wicket keeper;stands behind the wicket to catch balls
rabbi;spiritual leader of a jewish congregation. qualified to expound and apply the halakhah and other jewish law
antagonist;someone who offers opposition
tory;an american who favored the british side during the american revolution
glassblower;someone skilled in blowing bottles from molten glass
whig;a member of the whig party in the us in pre-civil-war times
life peer;a british peer whose title lapses at death
insurgent;a person who takes part in a rebellion in the hope of improving conditions
senator;a member of a senate
fiancee;a woman who is engaged to be married
hermes;(greek mythology) messenger and herald of the gods. god of commerce and cunning and and invention and theft. identified with roman mercury
gentleman at arms;one of 40 gentlemen who attend the british sovereign on state occasions
diegueno;a member of a north american indian people of s california
legal assistant;a person with specialized training who assists lawyers
floor leader;the legislator who organizes his party's strategy
stripteaser;a performer who provides erotic entertainment by undressing to music
wearer;one that wears or carries or displays something as a body covering or accessory: 'the wearer of the crown'
nihilist;someone who rejects all theories of morality or religious belief
beggarwoman;a woman who is a beggar
the living dead;a dead body that has been brought back to life by a supernatural force
character;a person of a specified kind (usually with many eccentricities). 'a strange character'. 'a friendly eccentric'. 'the capable type'. 'a mental case'
plantation owner;the owner or manager of a plantation
fag;a disparaging term for an openly homosexual man
record breaker;someone who breaks a record
addle head;a person with confused ideas. incapable of serious thought
member of parliament;an elected member of the british parliament: a member of the house of commons
store detective;a private detective employed by a merchant to stop pilferage
ham actor;an unskilled actor who overacts
african;a native or inhabitant of africa
photographer;someone who takes photographs professionally
carhop;a waiter at a drive-in restaurant
pinch hitter;(baseball or softball) a substitute for the regular batter
intermediary;a negotiator who acts as a link between parties
operatic star;singer of lead role in an opera
distortionist;a painter who introduces distortions
office boy;a young man who is employed to do odd jobs in a business office
small farmer;a farmer on a small farm
cowboy;a hired hand who tends cattle and performs other duties on horseback
wool stapler;a person who sorts wool into different grades
freeman;a person who is not a serf or a slave
twin;either of two offspring born at the same time
nurse;a woman who is the custodian of children
slav;any member of the people of eastern europe or russian asia who speak a slavonic language
benefactress;a woman benefactor
jade;a woman adulterer
heroin addict;someone addicted to heroin
tailback;(football) the person who plays tailback
volunteer;a person who performs voluntary work
contestant;a person who participates in competitions
senior;a person who is older than you are
celebrant;an officiating priest celebrating the eucharist
sibling;a person's brother or sister
matron;a wardress in a prison
barrel maker;a craftsman who makes or repairs wooden barrels or tubs
memsahib;a woman sahib
coroner;a public official who investigates by inquest any death not due to natural causes
racialist;a person with a prejudiced belief that one race is superior to others
hazan;the official of a synagogue who conducts the liturgical part of the service and sings or chants the prayers intended to be performed as solos
premier;the person who is head of state (in several countries)
hayes;19th president of the united states (1822-1893)
aquinas;italian (roman catholic) theologian remembered for his attempt to reconcile faith and reason in a comprehensive theology (1225-1274)
substitute;someone who takes the place of another (as when things get dangerous or difficult). 'the star had a stand-in for dangerous scenes'. 'we need extra employees for summer fill-ins'
votary;one bound by vows to a religion or life of worship or service: 'monasteries of votaries'
zeno of elea;(ca 495-430 bc) greek philosopher who formulated paradoxes that defended the belief that motion and change are illusory
saxon;a member of a germanic people who conquered england and merged with the angles and jutes to become anglo-saxons. dominant in england until the norman conquest
probationer;someone released on probation or on parole
reviser;someone who puts text into appropriate form for publication
old timer;an elderly man
caregiver;a person who is responsible for attending to the needs of a child or dependent adult
geoffrey chaucer;(1340-1400) english poet remembered as author of the canterbury tales
hippy;someone who rejects the established culture. advocates extreme liberalism in politics and lifestyle
sun worshiper;someone who worships the sun
man friday;the most helpful assistant
hajji;a pilgrim who journeys to mecca
mendeleyev;russian chemist who devised the first periodic table of the chemical elements (1834-1907)
histrion;a theatrical performer
bonesetter;someone (not necessarily a licensed physician) who sets broken bones
wine lover;a connoisseur of fine wines. a grape nut
mistress;a woman master who directs the work of others
maharajah;a great raja. a hindu prince or king in india ranking above a raja
prole;a member of the working class (not necessarily employed). 'workers of the world--unite!'
air hostess;a woman steward on an airplane
brit;a native or inhabitant of great britain
otologist;a physician who specializes in the ear and its diseases
gothic romancer;a writer of gothic romances
self employed person;a writer or artist who sells services to different employers without a long-term contract with any of them
calliope;(greek mythology) the muse of epic poetry
erato;(greek mythology) the muse of lyric and love poetry
playmate;a companion at play
beduin;a member of the a nomadic tribe of arabs
ornamentalist;someone who decorates
chum;a close friend who accompanies his buddies in their activities
crank;a whimsically eccentric person
cayuga;a member of an iroquoian people formerly living around cayuga lake in new york state
benedict;italian monk who founded the benedictine order about 540 (480-547)
clerk;a salesperson in a store
gaius julius caesar;conqueror of gaul and master of italy (100-44 bc)
sea robber;someone who robs at sea or plunders the land from the sea without having a commission from any sovereign nation
contender;the contestant you hope to defeat. 'he had respect for his rivals'. 'he wanted to know what the competition was doing'
petroleum geologist;a specialist in petroleum geology
benedict;a newly married man (especially one who has long been a bachelor)
monogynist;someone who practices monogamy (one spouse at a time)
beldame;a woman of advanced age
b girl;a woman employed by a bar to act as a companion to men customers
man about town;a man devoted to the pursuit of pleasure
immanuel kant;german idealist philosopher (1724-1804)
protestant deacon;a protestant layman who assists the minister
palatine;(medieval) the lord of a palatinate who exercised sovereign powers over his lands
briton;a native or inhabitant of great britain
mandatary;the recipient of a mandate
avenger;someone who takes vengeance
fishwife;someone who sells fish
pal;a close friend who accompanies his buddies in their activities
rip van winkle;a person who sleeps a lot
officer;a person authorized to serve in a position of authority on a vessel. 'he is the officer in charge of the ship's engines'
financial officer;an officer charged with receiving and disbursing funds
cartoonist;a person who draws cartoons
bellman;someone employed as an errand boy and luggage carrier around hotels
grump;a bad-tempered person
carrier;someone whose employment involves carrying something. 'the bonds were transmitted by carrier'
dante alighieri;an italian poet famous for 'the divine comedy'--a journey through hell and purgatory and paradise guided by virgil and his idealized beatrice (1265-1321)
atakapa;a member of an indian people formerly living along the gulf coast of louisiana and texas
dutch uncle;a counselor who admonishes frankly and sternly
eritrean;a native or inhabitant of eritrea
plunderer;someone who takes spoils or plunder (as in war)
boreas;(greek mythology) the god who personified the north wind. 'boreas was pictured as bearded and powerful and winged and draped against the cold'
grind;a student who studies excessively
starter;any new participant in some activity
negativist;someone who is resigned to defeat
loved one;a beloved person. used as terms of endearment
dock walloper;a laborer who loads and unloads vessels in a port
anglo saxon;a native or inhabitant of england prior to the norman conquest
snatcher;a thief who grabs and runs. 'a purse snatcher'
john burgoyne;british general in the american revolution who lost the battle of saratoga in 1777 (1722-1792)
voter;a citizen who has a legal right to vote
agrippa;roman general who commanded the fleet that defeated the forces of antony and cleopatra at actium (63-12 bc)
fabulist;a person who tells or invents fables
laundrywoman;a working woman who takes in washing
internist;an advanced student or graduate in medicine gaining supervised practical experience ('houseman' is a british term)
redcap;a railroad employee who assists passengers (especially on sleeping cars)
wagner;(1813-1883) german composer
australian;a native or inhabitant of australia
desperate criminal;a bold outlaw (especially on the american frontier)
better;someone who bets
arawn;(welsh) lord of annwfn (the other world. land of fairies)
dhegiha;any member of a siouan people speaking one of the dhegiha languages
mugwump;someone who bolted from the republican party during the u.s. presidential election of 1884
dana;(irish) mother of the tuatha de danann. identified with the welsh don
congolese;a native or inhabitant of the republic of congo
opponent;an armed adversary (especially a member of an opposing military force). 'a soldier must be prepared to kill his enemies'
housebreaker;a wrecker of houses. 'in england a housewrecker is called a housebreaker'
pessimist;a person who expects the worst
tuscarora;a member of a iroquois people who formerly lived in north carolina and then moved to new york state and joined the iroquois
talent scout;someone employed to discover and recruit talented persons (especially in the worlds of entertainment or sports)
homeowner;someone who owns a home
dillydallier;someone who wastes time
flasher;someone with a compulsive desire to expose the genitals
expert;a person who performs skillfully
teamster;the driver of a team of horses doing hauling
diver;someone who works underwater
yachtsman;sails a yacht
placeseeker;(british) a disparaging term for an appointee
deacon;a cleric ranking just below a priest in roman catholic churches
deviant;a person whose behavior deviates from what is acceptable especially in sexual behavior
art teacher;someone who teaches art
vitharr;one of the aesir. son of odin. avenges his parent by slaying fenrir at ragnarok
notary public;someone legally empowered to witness signatures and certify a document's validity and to take depositions
karok;a member of a north american indian people of the klamath river valley in n california
ohioan;a resident of ohio
cowboy;someone who is reckless or irresponsible (especially in driving vehicles)
landlord;a landowner whose leases to others
guard;a person who keeps watch over something or someone
gouger;a person who swindles you by means of deception or fraud
purser;an officer aboard a ship who keeps accounts and attends to the passengers' welfare
best friend;the one friend who is closest to you
whale;a very large person. impressive in size or qualities
apache;any member of athapaskan tribes that migrated to the sw desert (from arizona to texas and south into mexico). fought a losing battle from 1861 to 1886 with the us and were resettled in oklahoma
farmer;a person who operates a farm
scribbler;informal terms for journalists
bravo;a hired murderer
marquess;a british peer ranking below a duke and above an earl
specialist;practices one branch of medicine
minister plenipotentiary;a diplomat having less authority than an ambassador
mistress;a woman who has an ongoing extramarital sexual relationship with a man
salian frank;a member of the tribe of franks who settled in the netherlands in the 4th century ad
bookdealer;a dealer in books. a merchant who sells books
perisher;(australian) bounder
sharpie;a person who swindles you by means of deception or fraud
cocopa;a member of a north american indian people living around the mouth of the colorado river
cotter;a medieval english villein
market keeper;a merchant who owns or manages a shop
millard fillmore;elected vice president and became the 13th president of the united states when taylor died in office (1800-1874)
gaffer;an elderly man
gagman;a comedian who uses gags
slugger;a boxer noted for an ability to deliver hard punches
sorceress;a woman sorcerer
jawaharlal nehru;(1889-1964) indian statesman and leader with gandhi in the struggle for home rule. was the first prime minister of the republic of india from 1947 to 1964
incompetent;someone who is not competent to take effective action
foster child;a child who is raised by foster parents
bel esprit;a witty or clever person with a fine mind
saint matthew;disciple of jesus. author of the first gospel
hooker;a prostitute who attracts customers by walking the streets
ingenue;an artless innocent young girl (especially as portrayed on the stage)
newspaperman;a journalist employed to provide news stories for newspapers or broadcast media
marauder;someone who attacks in search of booty
blabbermouth;someone who gossips indiscreetly
cross examiner;someone who questions a witness carefully (especially about testimony given earlier)
job;a jewish hero in the old testament who maintained his faith in god in spite of afflictions that tested him
practician;someone who practices a learned profession
newsagent;someone who sells newspapers
stylist;someone who cuts or beautifies hair
stock farmer;farmer who breed or raises livestock
fire marshal;the head of a fire department
mauritian;a native or inhabitant of mauritius
tao;an adherent of any branch of taoism
rubberneck;a person who stares inquisitively
tobagonian;a native or inhabitant of the island of tobago in the west indies
reader;a person who can read. a literate person
butcher;a retailer of meat
torpedo;a professional killer who uses a gun
cowpoke;a hired hand who tends cattle and performs other duties on horseback
serviceman;a worker whose job is to repair things
lotus eater;someone indifferent to the busy world
brigand;an armed thief who is (usually) a member of a band
arrival;someone who arrives (or has arrived)
secretary of the treasury;the person who holds the secretaryship of the treasury department. 'alexander hamilton was the first secretary of the treasury'
dolt;a person who is not very bright: 'the economy, stupid!'
escapist;a person who escapes into a world of fantasy
sermonizer;someone who occupation is preaching the gospel
trail boss;the person responsible for driving a herd of cattle
square shooter;a frank and honest person
freyr;god of earth's fertility and peace and prosperity. son of njorth and brother of freya. originally of the vanir. later with the aesir
malay;a member of a people inhabiting the n malay peninsula and malaysia and parts of the w malay archipelago
inebriate;a chronic drinker
friend of the court;an adviser to the court on some matter of law. usually someone who wants to influence the outcome of a lawsuit but is not a party to it
renegade;someone who rebels and becomes and outlaw
spoiler;someone who takes spoils or plunder (as in war)
cleaner;someone whose occupation is cleaning
winston churchill;(1874-1965) british conservative statesman. british leader during world war ii. received nobel prize for literature in 1953
woman of the street;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
mohican;a member of the algonquian people formerly living the hudson valley and eastward to the housatonic
jean;1896-1980
chief secretary;a member of the british cabinet
brother;used as a term of address for those male persons engaged in the same movement. 'greetings, comrade!'
hatchet man;one whose job it is to execute unpleasant tasks for a superior
neophyte;a new convert being taught the principles of christianity by a catechist
police officer;a member of a police force. 'it was an accident, officer'
savitar;an important god. the sun in its life-giving aspect
barbarian;a crude uncouth ill-bred person lacking culture or refinement
gawain;(arthurian legend) one of the knights of the round table
redhead;someone who has red hair
big leaguer;a member of a major-league baseball team
powhatan;chief of the powhatan nad founder of the powhatan confederacy of tribes in eastern virginia. father of pocahontas (1550?-1618)
subverter;a radical supporter of political or social revolution
saudi arabian;a native or inhabitant of saudi arabia
tv newsman;someone who reports news stories via television
maltman;a maker of malt
butler;a manservant (usually the head servant of a household) who has charge of wines and the table
sadhu;(hinduism) an ascetic holy man
junior lightweight;weighs no more than 130 pounds
innkeeper;the owner or manager of an inn
bahraini;a native or inhabitant of bahrain
point man;a soldier who goes ahead of a patrol
libber;a supporter of feminism
sif;wife of thor and guardian of the home
mollycoddle;a pampered darling. an effeminate man
humanist;an advocate of the principles of humanism
undercover agent;a secret agent hired by a state to obtain (military) information about its enemies
eremite;a christian recluse
belshazzar;(old testament) the last king of babylon. he was warned of his doom by divine handwriting on the wall that was interpreted by daniel
doxy;a woman who cohabits with an important man
defaulter;a contestant who forfeits a match
park commissioner;a commissioner in charge of public parks
hotel manager;an owner or manager of hotels
locke;1632-1704
asvins;twin brothers. gods of the dawn. physicians of heaven and benefactors of mankind
page;a boy who is employed to run errands
champ;someone who has won first place in a competition
epicurean;a person devoted to refined sensuous enjoyment (especially good food and drink)
churl;a crude uncouth ill-bred person lacking culture or refinement
latecomer;someone who arrives late
tungusic;any member of a people speaking a language in the tungusic family
nondriver;a person who is not a driver
straight arrow;a frank and honest person
spitfire;a highly emotional and quick-tempered person (especially a girl or woman)
demigod;a person with great powers and abilities
bibliopole;a dealer in secondhand books (especially rare or curious books)
mary magdalene;sinful woman jesus healed of evil spirits. she became a follower of jesus
devotee;an ardent follower
kaiser;the sovereign of germany from 1871 to 1918
peddler;someone who travels about selling his wares
commerce secretary;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of commerce. 'the first commerce secretary was william c. redfield who was appointed by wilson'
user;a person who uses something or someone selfishly or unethically
midget;a person who is abnormally small
harpsichordist;someone who plays the harpsichord
police matron;a woman policeman
marathoner;someone who participates in long-distance races (especially in marathons)
pagan;a person who does not acknowledge your god
psychotic person;a person afflicted with psychosis
caffein addict;someone addicted to caffeine
hobgoblin;(folklore) a small grotesque supernatural creature that makes trouble for human beings
hob;(folklore) fairies that are somewhat mischievous
racist;a person with a prejudiced belief that one race is superior to others
nipper;a young person of either sex (between birth and puberty). 'she writes books for children'. 'they're just kids'. 'tiddler' is a british term for youngsters'
registrar;the administrator responsible for student records
fawner;someone who humbles himself as a sign of respect. who behaves as he had no self-respect
unwelcome guest;someone who gets in (to a party) without an invitation or without paying
personality;a person of considerable prominence. 'she is a hollywood personality'
son;a male human offspring. 'their son became a famous judge'. 'his boy is taller than he is'
spear carrier;a minor actor in crowd scenes
oenophile;a connoisseur of fine wines. a grape nut
superior;a combatant who is able to defeat rivals
forward passer;a football player who throws a forward pass
knucklehead;these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
aide de camp;an officer who acts as military assistant
jakob boehme;(1575-1624) german mystic and theosophist who founded modern theosophy. influenced george fox
optometrist;a person skilled in testing for defects of vision in order to prescribe corrective glasses
husband;a married man. a woman's partner in marriage
lion hunter;someone who tries to attract social lions as guests
fedor dosoievski;russian novelist (1821-1881)
bart;a member of the british order of honor. ranks below a baron but above a knight. 'since he was a baronet he had to be addressed as sir henry jones, bart.'
analysand;a person undergoing psychoanalysis
dental assistant;an assistant to a dentist
outgoer;someone who leaves one country to settle in another
stepparent;the spouse of your parent by a subsequent marriage
coon;a an eccentric or undignified rustic. 'i'll be a gone coon when the battle starts'
dog catcher;an employee of a municipal pound who is hired to round up stray dogs and cats
catcher;(baseball or softball) the person who plays the position of catcher
empiricist;a philosopher who subscribes to empiricism
monogamist;someone who practices monogamy (one spouse at a time)
missouri;a member of the siouan people formerly inhabiting the valley of the missouri river in missouri
mate;informal term (australian or british) for a friend of the same sex
abuser;someone who abuses
thucydides;ancient greek historian remembered for his history of the peloponnesian war (460-395 bc)
g man;a special law-enforcement agent of the federal bureau of investigation
prospect;someone who is considered for something (for an office or prize or honor etc.)
mao tsetung;chinese communist leader (1893-1976)
fighter;someone who fights for a cause
occupant;someone who lives at a particular place for a prolonged period or who was born there
trickster;someone who leads you to believe something that is not true
haemophile;someone who has hemophilia and is subject to uncontrollable bleeding
first lady;the leading woman in an art or profession
rookie;an awkward and inexperienced youth
democrat;an advocate of democratic principles
dependent;a person who relies on another person for support (especially financial support)
kirgiz;a member of a people of turkic speech and mongolian race inhabiting vast regions of central siberia
sea captain;an officer who is licensed to command a merchant ship
pima;a member of the north american indian people living in s arizona and n mexico
trollop;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
peacemaker;someone who tries to bring peace
staggerer;someone who walks unsteadily as if about to fall
bird of passage;someone who leads a wandering unsettled life
copper s nark;(british) an informer or spy working for the police
partner;a person's partner in marriage
copyreader;an editor who prepares text for publication
phrenologist;someone who claims to read your character from the shape of your skull
gringo;a latin american (disparaging) term for foreigners (especially americans and englishmen)
mendeleev;russian chemist who devised the first periodic table of the chemical elements (1834-1907)
collaborator;someone who collaborates with an enemy occupying force
gravida ii;a woman who is pregnant for the second time
idler;person who does no work
cataleptic;a person suffering from catalepsy
folk dancer;someone who does folk dances
thought reader;a magician who seems to discern the thoughts of another person (usually by clever signals from an accomplice)
highjacker;someone who uses force to take over a vehicle (especially an airplane) in order to reach an alternative destination
coloratura;a soprano who specializes in coloratura vocal music
extern;a nonresident doctor or medical student. connected with a hospital but not living there
musician;composes or conducts music as a profession
arbitrator;someone chosen to judge and decide a disputed issue
nigger;ethnic slur. offensive name for black person
director of research;a supervisor in a research center
fighter;someone who fights (or is fighting)
wheelwright;someone who makes and repairs wooden wheels
traducer;one who attacks the reputation of another by slander or libel
detainee;some held in custody
heavenly jewel;a member of the taoist trinity
redcap;(british) a member of the military police
restaurant attendant;someone employed to provide service in a dining room
claimant;someone who imputes guilt or blame
backseat driver;someone who insists on giving unwanted advice
nicolaus copernicus;polish astronomer who produced a workable model of the solar system with the sun in the center (1473-1543)
violator;someone who assaults others sexually
icelander;a native or inhabitant of iceland
fry cook;a cook who specializes in fried foods
pensionary;the beneficiary of a pension fund
serb;a member of a slavic people who settled in serbia and neighboring areas in the 6th and 7th centuries
property man;member of the stage crew in charge of properties
lion;a celebrity who is lionized (much sought after)
sheep;a timid defenseless simpleton who is readily preyed upon
beadsman;a person who is paid to pray for the soul of another
staff member;an employee who is a member of a staff of workers
navaho;a member of an athapaskan people that migrated to arizona and new mexico and utah
rossini;(1792-1868) italian composer remembered for his operas
discriminator;a person who differentiates
terror;a very troublesome child
stationmaster;the person in charge of a railway station
greek deity;a deity worshipped by the ancient greeks
landscapist;someone who paints landscapes
gent;a boy or man. 'that chap is your host'. 'there's a fellow at the door'. 'he's a likable cuss'
seminole;a member of the muskhogean people who moved into florida in the 18th century
sheepherder;a herder of sheep (on an open range). someone who keeps the sheep together in a flock
recruit;a recently enlisted soldier
desiderius erasmus;dutch renaissance scholar and roman catholic theologian who attacked the theology of martin luther (1466-1536)
homeboy;a fellow male member of a youth gang
pipe fitter;a craftsman who installs and repairs pipes and fixtures and appliances
yama;god of the underworld
coquette;a seductive woman who uses her sex appeal to exploit men
czar;a person having great power
north american indian;a member of the race of people living in north america when europeans arrived
tightwad;a miserly person
money changer;one whose business is to exchange the money of one country for that of another country
abraham lincoln;16th president of the united states. saved the union during the civil war and emancipated the slaves. was assassinated by booth (1809-1865)
cunt;a woman who is thoroughly disliked. 'she said her son thought hilary was a bitch'
partaker;someone who takes a part or a share
pawn;a person used by another to gain an end
hitler;(1889-1945) german dictator during world war ii
acolyte;one who assists a minister in a liturgical service
titan;a person of exceptional importance and reputation
bondmaid;a female bound to serve without wages
edward v;(1470-1483) king of england who was crowned at the age of 13 on the death of his father edward iv but was immediately confined to the tower of london where he and his younger brother were murdered
pretor;an annually elected magistrate of the ancient roman republic
insomniac;someone who cannot sleep
holy trinity;the union of the father and son and holy ghost in one godhead
hurdler;an athlete who runs the hurdles
desperate;a person who is frightened and in need of help. 'they prey on the hopes of the desperate'
comptroller of the currency;a us federal official who regulates the national banks
whitey;offensive name for white person
ioway;a member of the siouan people formerly living in iowa and minnesota and missouri
bondwoman;a female bound to serve without wages
hausa;a member of a negroid people living chiefly in n nigeria
case;a person requiring professional services. 'a typical case was the suburban housewife described by a marriage counselor'
linesman;a person who installs or repairs electrical or telephone lines
file clerk;a clerk who is employed to maintain the files of an organization
voyeur;a viewer who enjoys seeing the sex acts or sex organs of others
mind reader;a magician who seems to discern the thoughts of another person (usually by clever signals from an accomplice)
delaware;a member of an algonquian people formerly living in new jersey and new york and parts of delaware and pennsylvania
kshatriya;a member of the royal or warrior hindu caste
bootlegger;someone who makes and sells illegal liquor
whipper in;huntsman's assistant in managing the hounds
pentecostalist;any member of a pentecostal religious body
ent man;a specialist in the disorders of the ear or nose or throat
flautist;someone who plays the flute
ganapati;god of wisdom or prophesy. remover of obstacles
renaissance man;a scholar during the renaissance who (because knowledge was limited) could know almost everything about many topics
crosspatch;a bad-tempered person
figurehead;a person used as a cover for some questionable activity
very important person;an important or influential person
mara;god of death. opposite of kama
pastor;a person authorized to conduct religious worship
supporter;a person who contributes to the fulfillment of a need or furtherance of an effort or purpose. 'my invaluable assistant'. 'they hired additional help to finish the work'
conjurer;someone who performs magic tricks to amuse an audience
gynaecologist;a specialist in gynecology
patron;a regular customer
drunken reveller;someone who engages in drinking bouts
leonidas;king of sparta and hero of the battle of thermopylae where is was killed by the persians (d. 480 bc)
general manager;the highest ranking manager
democrat;a member of the democratic party
daimon;one of the evil spirits of traditional jewish and christian belief
battle ax;a sharp-tongued domineering wife
occultist;some who practices the occult arts
mind reader;someone with the power of communicating thoughts directly
augustus;63 bc - 14 ad
virgil;(70-19 bc) a roman poet. author of the epic poem 'aeneid'
abominator;one who hates or loathes
excellency;a title used to address dignitaries (such as ambassadors or governors). usually preceded by your or his or her: 'your excellency'
grader;a judge who assigns grades to something
pouf;a disparaging term for an openly homosexual man
matriarch;an old woman
lecher;man with strong sexual desires
imitator;someone who copies the words or behavior of another
military man;someone who serves in the armed forces. 'two men stood sentry duty'
householder;someone who owns a home
squire;(british) an english country landowner
laughingstock;a victim of ridicule or pranks
junkie;a narcotics addict
firstborn;the offspring who came first in the order of birth
public relations man;someone employed to arrange publicity (for a firm or a public figure)
lighthouse keeper;the keeper of a lighthouse
bookmaker;a gambler who accepts and pays off bets (especially on horse races)
protege;a person who receives support and protection from an influential patron who furthers the protege's career
mapper;a clerk who marks data on a chart
melville;1819-1891
grappler;tries to throw opponent to the ground
chandler;a maker (and seller) of candles and soap and oils and paints
clothes designer;someone who designs clothing
ivan pavlov;russian physiologist who observed conditioned salivary responses in dogs (1849-1936)
handmaiden;a personal maid or female attendant
hairstylist;someone who cuts or beautifies hair
cop;(informal) uncomplimentary terms for a policeman
soloist;a musician who performs a solo
unix guru;an expert on the unix operating system
cat burglar;a burglar who unlawfully breaks into and enters another person's house
ordinary;a clergyman appointed to prepare condemned prisoners for death
sylvan;a spirit that lives in or frequents the woods
army engineer;a member of the military who is trained in engineering and construction work
educatee;a learner who is enrolled in an educational institution
epicine person;one having both male and female sexual characteristics and organs
momus;god of blame and mockery
epicurus;(341-270 bc) greek philosopher who believed that the world is a random combination of atoms and that pleasure is the highest good
straphanger;a commuter who uses public transportation
sociobiologist;a biologist who studies the biological determinants of social behavior
westerner;an inhabitant of a western area. especially of the u.s.
occupier;someone who lives at a particular place for a prolonged period or who was born there
bargainer;someone who purchases and maintains an inventory of goods to be sold
escort;an attendant who is employed to accompany someone
prostitute;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
harry s. truman;elected vice president in roosevelt's 4th term. became 33rd president of the united states on roosevelt's death in 1945 and was elected president in 1948. authorized the use of atomic bombs against japan (1884-1972)
charles dodgson;english author. charles dodgson was an oxford don of mathematics who is remembered for the children's stories he wrote under the pen name lewis carroll (1832-1898)
basket maker;early amerindians related to the pueblo indians. known for skill in making baskets
louis pasteur;(1822-1895) french chemist and biologist whose discovery that fermentation is caused by microorganisms resulted in the process of pasteurization
old nick;(judeo-christian religion) chief spirit of evil and adversary of god. tempter of mankind. master of hell
bohemian;a nonconformist writer or artist who lives an unconventional life
creole;a person descended from french ancestors in southern us especially louisiana
suffragist;a woman advocate of women's right to vote
friend;an associate who provides assistance. 'he's a good ally in fight'. 'they were friends of the workers'
stigmatist;a person whose body is marked by religious stigmata (such as marks resembling the wounds of the crucified christ)
well wisher;expresses hope that something will be successful
texas ranger;a member of the texas state highway patrol. formerly a mounted lawman who maintained order on the frontier
anglophil;an admirer of england and things english
churchill;(1874-1965) british conservative statesman. british leader during world war ii. received nobel prize for literature in 1953
baker;someone who bakes commercially
priest;a clergyman in many christian churches who has the authority to perform or administer various religious rites
cultivator;someone concerned with the science or art or business of cultivating the soil
bolshevik;emotionally charged terms used to refer to extreme radicals
zola;(1840-1902) french novelist and critic. defender of dreyfus
martin luther king;1929-1968
rommel;german field marshal noted for brilliant generalship in north africa during world war ii (1891-1944)
favorite;a competitor thought likely to win
second best;the competitor who finishes second
ogalala;a member of the siouan people formerly inhabiting the black hills of w south dakota
bantamweight;weighs 115-126 pounds
caddo;a group of plains indians formerly living in what is now north and south dakota and nebraska and kansas and arkansas and louisiana and oklahoma and texas
literary hack;a mediocre and disdained writer
winemaker;someone who makes wine
swimmer;a person who travels through the water by swimming. 'he is not a good swimmer'
educationist;a specialist in the theory of education
weirdie;someone unpleasantly strange or eccentric
mahout;(india) the driver and keeper of an elephant
swinger;a person who engages freely in promiscuous sex
elder;a person who is older than you are
foster brother;your foster brother is a male who is not a son of your parents but who is raised by your parents
beatnik;a member of the beat generation. a nonconformist in dress and behavior
computer guru;an authority on computers and computing
digger;a laborer who digs
john fitzgerald kennedy;35th president of the united states. established the peace corps. assassinated in dallas (1917-1963)
terror;a person who inspires fear or dread. 'he was the terror of the neighborhood'
figure;a well-known person. 'they studied all the great names in the history of france'
maverick;someone who exhibits great independence in thought and action
decedent;someone who is no longer alive. 'i wonder what the dead person would have done'
dynamitist;a person who uses dynamite in a revolutionary cause
truckler;someone who humbles himself as a sign of respect. who behaves as he had no self-respect
square;(informal) a formal and conservative person with old-fashioned views
misogamist;someone who dislikes women in particular
groundsman;someone who maintains the grounds (of an estate or park or athletic field)
anglophobe;a person who hates england and everything english
seafarer;a man who serves as a sailor
bhaga;god of wealth and love
garbage man;someone employed to collect and dispose of refuse
executive vice president;a vice president holding executive power
marquise;a noblewoman ranking below a duchess and above a countess
common soldier;an enlisted man of the lowest rank. 'our prisoner was just a private and knew nothing of value'
holder;the person who is in possession of a note or bond or document of title that is endorsed to him
vice president;an executive officer ranking immediately below a president. may serve in the president's place under certain circumstances
whizz kid;someone whose career progresses rapidly
striptease artist;a performer who provides erotic entertainment by undressing to music
unbeliever;someone who refuses to believe (as in a divinity)
visiting fireman;an important or distinguished visitor
commercial traveller;a salesman who travels to call on customers
dostoevski;russian novelist (1821-1881)
extoller;someone who communicates high praise
boy;a friendly informal reference to a grown man. 'he likes to play golf with the boys'
green beret;a soldier who is a member of the united states army special forces
bookseller;the proprietor of a bookstore
proofreader;someone who reads proof in order to find errors and mark corrections
gerald r. ford;38th president of the united states. appointed vice president and succeeded nixon when nixon resigned (1913- )
wiggler;one who can't stay still especially a child: 'the toddler was a real wiggler on plane trips
orcus;god of the underworld. counterpart of greek pluto
robert the bruce;king of scotland from 1306 to 1329. defeated the english army under edward ii at bannockburn and gained recognition of scottish independence
dark horse;a political candidate who is not well known but could win unexpectedly
parcae;the 3 goddesses of fate or destiny. identified with the greek moirai and similar to the norse norns
prince rupert;a german-born english leader of the royalist forces during the english civil war (1619-1682)
supernumerary;a minor actor in crowd scenes
casuist;someone whose reasoning is subtle and often specious
devil dog;a member of the us marine corps
reckoner;an expert at calculation (or at operating calculating machines)
negress;a black woman or girl
medical extern;a nonresident doctor or medical student. connected with a hospital but not living there
amanuensis;someone skilled in the transcription of speech (especially dictation)
clown;a rude or vulgar fool
medical scientist;a scientist who studies disease processes
headmaster;presiding officer of a school
parader;walks with regular or stately step
shiksa;a derogatory term used by jews to refer to non-jewish women
jazzman;a musician who plays or composes jazz music
skivvy;(british) a female domestic servant who does all kinds of menial work
creole;a person of european descent born in the w indies or spanish america
dictator;behaves like a tyrant
hacker;someone who plays golf poorly
homer;greek epic poet (circa 850 b.c.) who is believed to have written the iliad and the odyssey
niggard;a selfish person who is unwilling to give or spend
crewman;a member of a flight crew
radio announcer;an announcer whose voice is broadcast on radio
mezzo;a soprano with a voice between soprano and contralto
pan;god of fields and woods and shepherds and flocks. represented as a man with goat's legs and horns and ears. identified with roman sylvanus or faunus
mimicker;someone who mimics (especially an actor or actress)
locksmith;someone who makes or repairs locks
alarmist;a person who alarms others needlessly
super;a caretaker for an apartment house. represents the owner as janitor and rent collector
criminal;someone who has committed (or been legally convicted of) a crime
outfielder;a fielder in cricket who is stationed in the outfield
preserver;a skilled worker who is employed to restore or refinish antique furniture
umpire;an official at a baseball game
lothario;a successful womanizer (after a fictional seducer)
augustinian;one of the catholic hermits of saint augustine
pickaninny;(offensive) a black child
der fuhrer;(1889-1945) german dictator during world war ii
sexist;a man with a chauvinistic belief in the inferiority of women
cave dweller;someone who dwells in a cave
freyja;goddess of love and fecundity. daughter of njorth and sister of frey
prince;a male member of a royal family other than the sovereign (especially the son of a sovereign)
minor;a young person of either sex (between birth and puberty). 'she writes books for children'. 'they're just kids'. 'tiddler' is a british term for youngsters'
libertarian;someone who believes the doctrine of free will
whipping boy;someone punished for the errors of others
pioneer;someone who helps to open up a new line of research or technology or art
llew llaw gyffes;(welsh) son of gwydion and arionhrod. supported by magic of gwydion. cursed by arianhrod
henry bolingbroke;(1367-1413) the first lancastrian king of england from 1399 to 1413. deposed richard ii and suppressed rebellions
eradicator;someone who exterminates. someone whose occupation is the extermination of troublesome rodents and insects
sister in law;the sister of your spouse
ling pao;a member of the taoist trinity
prodigy;an unusually talented or intelligent child
lightweight;a boxer who weighs no more than 135 pounds
body snatcher;someone who takes bodies from graves and sells them for anatomical dissection
taiwanese;a native or inhabitant of taiwan
ouranos;god of the heavens. son and husband of gaea and father of the titans in ancient mythology
april fool;the butt of a prank played on april 1st
chosen;one who is the object of choice. who is given preference. 'she was mama's chosen'
ordinary;a judge of a probate court
hero;someone who fights for a cause
uzbak;a member of a turkic people of uzbekistan and neighboring areas
head honcho;(informal) an important influential person
edward iv;(1442-1483) king of england from 1461 to 1470 and from 1471 to 1483. was dethroned in 1470 but regained the throne in 1471 by his victory at the battle of tewkesbury
boarder;someone who forces their way aboard ship. 'stand by to repel boarders'
operator;(informal) a shrewd or unscrupulous person who knows how to circumvent difficulties
impressionist;a painter who follows the theories of impressionism
draw;an entertainer who attracts large audiences. 'he was the biggest drawing card they had'
hunter;someone who hunts game
baton twirler;someone who twirls a baton
secretary of transportation;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of transportation. 'johnson appointed alan s. boyd as the first transportation secretary'
vocalist;a person who sings
fielder;a member of the baseball team that is in the field instead of at bat
tollkeeper;someone employed to collect tolls
lasher;a driver who urges the animals on with lashes of a whip
slider;someone who races the luge
selling agent;someone who sells goods (on commission) for others
gunrunner;a smuggler of guns
industrialist;someone who manages or has significant financial interest in an industrial enterprise
entrant;someone who enters. 'new entrants to the country must go though immigration procedures'
dostoievski;russian novelist (1821-1881)
malcolm little;1925-1965
paul bunyan;a legendary giant lumberjack of the north woods of us and canada. had a blue ox named babe. 'the lakes of minnesota began when paul bunyan and babe's footprints filled with water'
practical nurse;a nurse who has enough training to be licensed by a state to provide routine care for the sick
carl jung;1875-1961
jurist;a legal scholar versed in civil law or the law of nations
worker;a person who works at a specific job. 'he is a good worker'
reversioner;(law) a party who is entitled to an estate in reversion
psychic;a person apparently sensitive to things beyond the natural range of perception
clinical psychologist;a therapist who deals with mental and emotional disorders
honeymooner;someone recently married
uxor;(legal terminology) the latin word for wife
cowman;a hired hand who tends cattle and performs other duties on horseback
shikse;a derogatory term used by jews to refer to non-jewish women
commodore;a commissioned naval officer who ranks above a captain and below a rear admiral. the lowest grade of admiral
dibbuk;(jewish folklore) a demon that enters the body of a living person and controls that body's behavior
favourite;a special loved one
law agent;a solicitor holding a certificate from the law society of scotland
person of color;(formal) any non-european non-white person
platelayer;a workman who lays and repairs railroad tracks
ironside;a man of great strength or bravery
whited sepulchre;a person who is inwardly evil but outwardly professes to be virtuous
bisexual person;a person who is sexually attracted to both men and women
aetiologist;a specialist in the etiology of diseases
signal caller;(football) the person who plays quarterback
messmate;an associate with whom you share meals in the same mess (as on a ship)
anu;(babylonian) the sky god. one of the supreme triad including bel and ea
sheika;the wife of a sheik
hooky player;one who is absent from school without permission
sufferer;one who suffers for the sake of principle
end man;a man at one end of a row of people
theater critic;a critic of theatrical performances
stuffed shirt;(informal) a bore
surrealist;an artist who is a member of the movement called surrealism
antiguan;a native or inhabitant of antigua
backup man;someone who takes the place of another (as when things get dangerous or difficult). 'the star had a stand-in for dangerous scenes'. 'we need extra employees for summer fill-ins'
bucolic;a country person
scallywag;white southerner supporting reconstruction policies after the civil war usually for self-interest
lockkeeper;a worker in charge of a lock (on a canal)
state attorney;a prosecuting attorney for a state
storyteller;someone who tells lies
singaporean;an inhabitant of singapore
master;an artist of consummate skill
publicity man;someone employed to arrange publicity (for a firm or a public figure)
hatemonger;one who arouses hatred for others
dear;a beloved person. used as terms of endearment
cockney;a native of the east end of london
sheep;a docile and vulnerable person who would rather follow than make an independent decision. 'his students followed him like sheep'
chief of state;the leader of a country
free agent;(sports) a professional athlete who is free to sign a contract to play for any team
window dresser;someone who decorates shop windows
v.p.;an executive officer ranking immediately below a president. may serve in the president's place under certain circumstances
cobbler;a person who makes or repairs shoes
mozambican;a native or inhabitant of mozambique
sutler;a supplier of victuals or supplies to an army
laddie;a male child (a familiar term of address to a boy)
eresh kigal;(sumerian and akkadian) goddess of death and consort of nergal
old boy;a familiar term of address for a man
custodian;one having charge of buildings or grounds or animals
nominal head;a person used as a cover for some questionable activity
truant;one who is absent from school without permission
administrator;the party appointed by a probate court to distribute the estate of someone who dies without a will or without naming an executor
henchman;someone who assists in a plot
campmate;someone who lives in the same camp you do
notary;someone legally empowered to witness signatures and certify a document's validity and to take depositions
lilliputian;a very small person (resembling a lilliputian)
garmentmaker;a person who makes garments
yes man;a person of unquestioning obedience
case;a person of a specified kind (usually with many eccentricities). 'a strange character'. 'a friendly eccentric'. 'the capable type'. 'a mental case'
journalist;someone who keeps a diary or journal
northman;an inhabitant of scandinavia
prompter;someone who assists a performer by providing the next words of a forgotten speech
medical assistant;a person trained to assist medical professionals
mover;someone who works for a moving company. 'the movers were very careful with the grand piano'
jokester;a person who enjoys telling or playing jokes
lord of misrule;a person appointed master of revels at a christmas celebration
cytherea;goddess of love and beauty and daughter of zeus in ancient mythology. identified with roman venus
tenant;a holder of buildings or lands by any kind of title (as ownership or lease)
baldpate;a person whose head is bald
foreman;a man who is foreperson of a jury
villager;one who has lived in a village most of their life
back number;someone who is no longer popular
pygmy;an unusually small individual
thalia;(greek mythology) the muse of comedy and pastoral poetry
young buck;an adolescent male
forefighter;a member of a fire department who tries to extinguish fires
hebrew;a person belonging to the worldwide group descended from the ancient israelites (or converted to it) and connected by cultural or religious ties
hash head;a user of hashish
bulgarian;a native or inhabitant of bulgaria
loaner;someone who lends money or gives credit in business matters
saudi;a native or inhabitant of saudi arabia
calif;the civil and religious leader of a muslim state. a successor of muhammad
gregory;(circa 540-604) the pope for whom gregorian chants were named
power station worker;a worker at a power station
freud;1856-1939
ceres;(roman mythology) goddess of agriculture. counterpart of greek demeter
zealander;a native or inhabitant of zealand
elizabeth;queen of england from 1558 to 1603. daughter of henry viii and anne boleyn (1533-1603)
corinthian;a resident of corinth
halchidhoma;a member of a north american indian people of the colorado river valley near the mouth of the gila river. allied to the maricopa
batsman;a ballplayer who is batting
legislator;someone who makes or enacts laws
beggarman;a man who is a beggar
von rundstedt;german field marshal in world war ii who directed the conquest of poland and led the ardennes counteroffensive (1875-1953)
blonde;a person with fair skin and hair
map maker;a person who makes maps
grannie;the mother of your father or mother
relative in law;a relative by marriage
sawyer;one who is employed to saw wood
panchen lama;the lama next in rank to the dalai lama
replacement;a person who follows. 'he is president bush's successor'
day laborer;a laborer who works by the day. for daily wages
line coach;an assistant football coach in charge of the linemen
server;(tennis) the player who serves to start a point
stickup man;an armed thief
litterbug;a person who litters public places with refuse
fruiterer;(british) a person who sells fruit
malingerer;someone shirking their duty
saint augustine;one of the fathers of the roman catholic church. after a dramatic conversion to christianity he became bishop of hippo in north africa (354-430)
frontiersman;someone who lives on the frontier
donor;person who makes a gift of property
contrabandist;someone who imports or exports without paying duties
goy;in this sense 'gentile' denotes a christian as contrasted with a jew. 'goy' is a derogatory word for christians used by jews
blighter;a persistently annoying person
buddha;one who has achieved a state of perfect enlightenment
miniaturist;someone who paints tiny pictures in great detail
opium addict;someone addicted to opium
substitute;an athlete who plays only when another member of the team drops out
moujik;a russian peasant (especially prior to 1917)
orphan;a child who has lost both parents
captain bligh;(1754-1817) british admiral. was captain of the h.m.s. bounty when the crew mutinied in 1789
skirt chaser;a man who is aggressive in making amorous advances to women
cave man;someone who dwells in a cave
weirdy;someone unpleasantly strange or eccentric
zen buddhist;an adherent of the doctrines of zen buddhism
gravedigger;a person who earns a living by digging graves
guenevere;(arthurian legend) wife of king arthur. in some versions of the legend she became lancelot's lover and that led to the end of the knights of the round table
penman;informal terms for journalists
bill poster;someone who pastes up bills or placards on walls or billboards
airwoman;a woman aviator
demographer;a scientist who studies the growth and density of populations and their vital statistics
room decorator;a person who specializes in designing architectural interiors and their furnishings
chartist;a 19th century english reformer who advocated better social and economic conditions for working people
principal investigator;the scientist in charge of an experiment or research project
aggressor;someone who attacks
blood donor;someone who gives blood to be used for transfusions
double agent;a spy who works for two mutually antagonistic countries
warehouser;manages or works in a warehouse
dining companion;someone you dine with
deliverer;a person who gives up or transfers money or goods
mother;(obscene) insulting terms of address
shorthand typist;someone skilled in the transcription of speech (especially dictation)
feudal lord;a man of rank in the ancien regime
redcoat;british soldier. so-called because of his red coat, esp. during the revolutionary war
loyalist;a person who is loyal to their allegiance (especially in times of revolt)
music teacher;someone who teaches music
war baby;conceived or born during war
picklepuss;(informal) someone with a habitually sullen or gloomy expression
marcher;walks with regular or stately step
pawnee;a member of the pawnee nation formerly living in nebraska and kansas but now largely in oklahoma
tethys;a titaness and sea goddess in ancient mythology. wife of oceanus
george boole;(1815-1864) english mathematician. creator of boolean algebra
perceiver;a person who becomes aware of through the senses
nicaraguan;a native or inhabitant of nicaragua
ananias;a habitual liar (after a new testament character who was struck dead for lying)
safebreaker;a thief who breaks open safes to steal valuable contents
jack of all trades;a man skilled in various odd jobs and other small tasks
pitman;someone who works in a coal mine
interior secretary;the person who holds the secretaryship of the interior department. 'president taylor appointed thomas ewing as the first secretary of the interior'
cataloguer;a librarian who classifies publication according to a categorial system
mason;a member of a widespread secret fraternal order pledged to mutual assistance and brotherly love
dalesman;a person who lives in the dales of northern england
luther;german theologian who led the reformation. believed that salvation is granted on the basis of faith rather than deeds (1483-1546)
end user;the ultimate user for which something is intended
hopeful;an aspiring young person. 'two executive hopefuls joined the firm'. 'the audience was full of madonna wannabes'
crimp;someone who tricks or coerces men into service as sailors or soldiers
mithridates vi;ancient king who expanded his kingdom by defeating the romans but was later driven out by pompey (132-63 bc)
ferryman;a man who operates a ferry
serving girl;a girl who is a servant
amish;an american follower of the mennonite bishop amman
bread maker;someone who bakes bread or cake
dante;an italian poet famous for 'the divine comedy'--a journey through hell and purgatory and paradise guided by virgil and his idealized beatrice (1265-1321)
cartwright;a workman who makes and repairs carts and wagons
otorhinolaryngologist;a specialist in the disorders of the ear or nose or throat
genghis khan;mongol conqueror (died in 1227)
gp;a physician who is not a specialist but treats all illnesses
private investigator;someone who can be employed as a detective to collect information
brigadier general;a general officer ranking below a major general
welterweight;a wrestler who weighs 154-172 pounds
egyptian deity;a deity worshipped by the ancient egyptians
tripper;a tourist who is visiting sights of interest
poor devil;someone you feel sorry for
sister;a female person who is a fellow member (of a sorority or labor union or other group). 'none of her sisters would betray her'
administrator;someone who administers a business
seedsman;a dealer in seeds
nun;a woman religious
third baseman;(baseball or softball) the person who plays third base
legal expert;a legal scholar versed in civil law or the law of nations
helmholtz;1821-1894
exploiter;a person who uses something or someone selfishly or unethically
goner;a person in desperate straits. someone doomed
moneylender;someone who lends money at excessive rates of interest
salesgirl;a woman salesperson
layman;someone who is not a clergyman or a professional person
ra;ancient hawk-headed sun god. a universal creator
robert fulton;american inventor who designed the first commercially successful steamboat and the first steam warship (1765-1815)
titaness;any of the primordial giant goddesses who were offspring of uranus (heaven) and gaea (earth) in ancient mythology
yugoslav;a native or inhabitant of yugoslavia
academic;an educator who works at a college or university
ham;an unskilled actor who overacts
pre raphaelite;a painter or writer dedicated to restoring early renaissance ideals
highwayman;a holdup man who stops a vehicle and steals from it
virgin;a person who has never had sex
sibyl;a woman who tells fortunes
fresh fish;soldiers who a regarded as expendable in the face of artillery fire
influential person;a person whose actions and opinions strongly influence the course of events
kuan yin;(buddhism) a female bodhisattva. often called goddess of mercy and considered an aspect of the bodhisattva avalokitesvara. identified with japanese kwannon
langlauffer;a cross-country skier
savoyard;a person who performs in the operettas of gilbert and sullivan
iconoclast;someone who tries to destroy traditional ideas or institutions
leading man;actor who plays the leading male role
hidatsa;a member of the sioux people formerly inhabiting an area along the missouri river in w north dakota
heavy;an actor who plays villainous roles
may queen;the girl chosen queen of a may day festival
antiquary;an expert or collector of antiquities
hillbilly;a disparaging term for an unsophisticated person
scipio africanus major;roman general who commanded the invasion of carthage in the second punic war and defeated hannibal at zama (circa 237-183 bc)
guy;an informal term for a youth or man. 'a nice guy'. 'the guy's only doing it for some doll'
executive;someone who manages a government agency or department
aurora;goddess of the dawn. counterpart of greek eos
headcounter;someone who conducts surveys of public opinion
lord high chancellor;the british cabinet minister who is head of the judiciary and speaker of the house of lords
country doctor;a doctor who practices in the country (rather than in a city) usually remote from a modern hospital. 'do country doctors still make house calls?'
sergeant;any of several noncommissioned officer ranks in the army or air force or marines ranking above a corporal
barrister;a british lawyer who speaks in the higher courts of law
dryad;a deity or nymph of the woods
messiah;any expected deliverer
bodyguard;someone who escorts and protects a prominent person
transgressor;someone who transgresses. someone who violates a law or command. 'the way of transgressors is hard'
night;goddess of night. daughter of erebus
opportunist;a person who places expediency above principle
abductor;someone who unlawfully seizes and detains a victim (usually for ransom)
vegan;someone who eats no animal products at all
ms.;a form of address for a woman that does not depend on her marital status
muggee;a victim of a mugging. 'the law seems to give more protection to the mugger than to the muggee'
fire eater;a member of a fire department who tries to extinguish fires
sob;(obscene) insulting terms of address
plodder;someone who works slowly and monotonously
tailor;a person whose occupation is making and altering garments
brick;a good fellow. helpful and trustworthy
white;a member of the caucasoid race
dynast;a hereditary ruler
louisianian;a resident of louisiana
games master;the teacher in charge of games at a school
head linesman;a football official in charge of recording yardage gained or loss
lancer;(formerly) a cavalryman armed with a lance
hanoverian;a member (or supporter) of the house of hanover
prophetess;a woman prophet
police commissioner;a civil commissioner appointed to supervise the duties and discipline of the police
loser;a contestant who loses the contest
sceptic;someone who habitually doubts accepted beliefs
footman;a man employed as a servant in a large establishment (as a palace) to run errands and do chores
juno;(roman mythology) queen of the olympian gods who protected marriage. wife and sister of jupiter. counterpart of greek hera
jack of all trades;a person able to do a variety of different jobs acceptably well
explorer;someone who travels into little known regions (especially for some scientific purpose)
cheap jack;a seller of shoddy goods
quartermaster;n army officer who provides clothing and subsistence for troops
have not;a person with few or no possessions
circassian;a member of a caucasian people living in the caucasus but not speaking an indo-european language
world traveler;someone who travels widely and often
sigmund freud;1856-1939
abutter;the owner of contiguous property
truant;someone who shirks duty
business editor;the newspaper editor responsible for business news
trumpeter;a musician who plays the trumpet or cornet
scamp;one who is playfully mischievous
caddie;an attendant who carries the golf clubs for a player
sigyn;wife of loki. held a cup over him during his punishment to spare him the pain of drops of poison
cottager;someone who lives in a cottage
freedwoman;a person who has been freed from slavery
warrener;maintains a rabbit warren
public servant;someone who holds a government position (either by election or appointment)
arhat;a buddhist who has attained nirvana
angel;spiritual being attendant upon god
matrisib;one related on the mother's side
valuator;one who estimates officially the worth or value or quality of things
satyr;one of a class of woodland deities. attendant on bacchus. identified with roman fauns
cub;a male child (a familiar term of address to a boy)
bodhisattva;buddhist worthy of nirvana who postpones it to help others
crius;one of the titans
russell;1872-1970
steady;a person loved by another person
scotswoman;a woman who is a scot
welfare case;a case for a welfare worker
militant;a militant reformer
francophil;an admirer of france and everything french
assessor;an official who evaluates property for the purpose of taxing it
cherub;an angel of the second order whose gift is knowledge. usually portrayed as a winged child
unemployed person;someone who is jobless
correspondent;someone who communicates by means of letters
ticket collector;someone who is paid to admit only those who have purchase tickets
dilettante;an amateur who engages in an activity without serious intentions
university student;a student enrolled in a college or university
norse;a native or inhabitant of norway
walpole;(1676-1745) english whig statesman who (under george i) was effectively the first british prime minister
solitudinarian;a person who avoids the company of others
de sade;(1740-1814) french soldier and writer whose descriptions of sexual perversion gave rise to the term 'sadism'
man at arms;a heavily armed and mounted soldier in medieval times
latin american;a resident of latin america
old hand;an experienced person. someone who has given long service
van beethoven;(1770-1827) german composer
amah;a female domestic
sacred cow;a person unreasonably held to be immune to criticism
proctologist;a doctor specializing in diseases of the rectum and anus
richard m. nixon;vice president under eisenhower and 37th president of the united states. resigned after the watergate scandal in 1974 (1913-1994)
stud;a man who is virile and sexually active
pathfinder;someone who can find paths through unexplored territory
contortionist;an acrobat able to twist into unusual positions
ux;(legal terminology) the latin word for wife
tritheist;someone (not an orthodox christian) who believes that the father and son and holy ghost are three separate gods
girlfriend;any female friend. 'mary and her girlfriend organized the party'
irelander;a native or inhabitant of ireland
gropius;a united states architect born in germany (1883-1969)
zoo keeper;the chief person responsible for a zoological garden
scipio;roman general who commanded the invasion of carthage in the second punic war and defeated hannibal at zama (circa 237-183 bc)
newsboy;a boy who delivers newspapers
mesomorph;a person with a well-developed muscular body
adult;a fully developed person from maturity onward
sporting man;someone who enjoys outdoor activities
blackfoot;a member of a warlike group of algonquians living in the nw plains
pothunter;someone who hunts for food (not for sport)
weirdo;someone unpleasantly strange or eccentric
ideologue;an advocate of some ideology
st john;disciple of jesus. author of the 4th gospel
energy secretary;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of energy. 'the first secretary of energy was james r. schlesinger who was appointed by carter'
labourer;someone who works with their hands
schoolmistress;a woman schoolteacher
geometer;a mathematician specializing in geometry
titian;(1490-1576) painter of the venetian school
college student;a student enrolled in a college or university
specializer;an expert who is devoted to one occupation or branch of learning
councilwoman;a woman who is a council member
neurotic;a person suffering from neurosis
chaos;(greek mythology) the most ancient of gods. the personification of the infinity of space preceding creation of the universe
pilot;a person qualified to guide ships through difficult waters going into or out of a harbor
non catholic;a religious person who is not a catholic
retainer;a person working in the service of another
tally clerk;one who keeps a tally of quantity or weight of goods produced or shipped or received
railwayman;an employee of a railroad
sympathizer;commiserates with someone who has had misfortune
sumatran;a native or inhabitant of sumatra
carter;someone whose work is driving carts
inventor;someone who is the first to think of or make something
aeolian;a member of one of the four divisions of the prehistoric greeks
actor;a theatrical performer
mischief maker;someone who deliberately stirs up trouble
matron;a woman in charge of nursing in a medical institution
bleeder;someone who has hemophilia and is subject to uncontrollable bleeding
man of means;a man who is wealthy
tough guy;someone who bullies weaker people
breaker;a quarry worker who splits off blocks of stone
cypriote;a native or inhabitant of cyprus
consul;a diplomat appointed by a government to protect its commercial interests and help its citizens in a foreign country
illiterate;a person unable to read
karakalpak;a member of a turkic people living near lake aral in central asia
medieval schoolman;a scholar in one of the universities of the middle ages. versed in scholasticism
orleanist;a supporter of the orleans branch of the french bourbons that was descended from a younger brother of louis xiv
genie;a spirit believed by muslims to inhabit the earth and influence mankind by appearing in the form of humans or animals
jigaboo;ethnic slur. offensive name for black person
brahms;(1833-1897) german composer
holy roman emperor;sovereign of the holy roman empire
shawnee;a member of the algonquian people formerly living along the tennessee river
danu;(irish) mother of the tuatha de danann. identified with the welsh don
whippersnapper;someone who is unimportant but cheeky and presumptuous
employer;a person or firm that employs workers
ramman;(assyrian) god of storms and wind. corresponds to babylonian adad
generator;someone who originates or causes or initiates something. 'he was the generator of several complaints'
delivery boy;someone employed to make deliveries
holy ghost;the third person in the trinity. jesus promised the apostles that he would send the holy spirit after his crucifixion and resurrection. it came on pentecost
monotheist;a believer in one god
peacekeeper;someone who keeps peace. 'she's the peacekeeper in that family'
saint thomas a becket;(1118-1170) archbishop of canterbury from 1162 to 1170. murdered following his opposition to henry ii concerning henry's attempts to control the clergy
mojave;a member of the north american indian people formerly living in the colorado river valley in arizona and nevada and california
pillager;someone who takes spoils or plunder (as in war)
high roller;one who spends lavishly and ostentatiously on entertainment. 'the last of the big spenders'
spartan;a resident of sparta
dunker;adherent of baptistic doctrines
jackass;a stupid fool
departed;someone who is no longer alive. 'i wonder what the dead person would have done'
van buren;8th president of the united states (1782-1862)
migrant;moves from one region or country to another
tar;a man who serves as a sailor
head shrinker;a savage who cuts off and preserves the heads of enemies as trophies
quarryman;a man who works in a quarry
male parent;a male parent (also used as a term of address to your father). 'his father was born in atlanta'
idun;goddess of spring and wife of bragi. guarded the apples that kept the gods eternally young
vacillator;one who hesitates (out of fear)
penobscot;a member of the algonquian people belonging to the abnaki confederacy and living in the penobscot valley in n maine
william james;1842-1910
libeler;one who attacks the reputation of another by slander or libel
nag;someone (especially a woman) who annoys people by constantly finding fault
cantabrigian;a resident of cambridge
new waver;a film maker who follows new wave ideas
biloxi;a member of the siouan people of the lower pascagoula river valley in mississippi
saboteur;a member of a clandestine subversive organization who tries to help a potential invader
fleet admiral;an admiral of the highest rank. five-star admiral
melancholic;someone subject to melancholia
ranker;(british) an enlisted soldier
mp;a member of the military police who polices soldiers and guards prisoners
white person;a member of the caucasoid race
abortionist;a person (who should be a doctor) who terminates pregnancies
franco american;an american who was born in france or whose ancestors were french
outpatient;a patient who does not reside in the hospital where he is being treated
filipino;a native or inhabitant of the philippines
nightrider;member of a secret mounted band in us south after the civil war. committed acts of intimidation and revenge
book lover;someone who loves (and usually collects) books
medic;a medical practitioner in the armed forces
philanthropist;someone who makes charitable donations intended to increase human well-being
acid head;someone who takes lsd
mater turrita;great nature goddess of ancient phrygia in asia minor. counterpart of greek rhea and roman ops
nouveau riche;a person who has suddenly risen to a higher economic status but has not gained social acceptance of others in that class
ranger;an official who is responsible for managing and protecting an area of forest
linguistic scientist;a specialist in linguistics
planet;a person who follows or serves another
tank driver;a soldier who drives a tank
utopian;an idealistic (but usually impractical) social reformer. 'a utopian believes in the ultimate perfectibility of man'
maitre d hotel;a diningroom attendant who is in charge of the waiters and the seating of customers
streaker;some who takes off all their clothes and runs naked through a public place
dorian;a member of one of the four divisions of the prehistoric greeks
cinderella;a girl whose merits have not been recognized
pow;a person who surrenders to (or is taken by) the enemy in time of war
holidaymaker;someone who travels for pleasure
tyke;a young person of either sex (between birth and puberty). 'she writes books for children'. 'they're just kids'. 'tiddler' is a british term for youngsters'
reed;1851-1902
surety;a prisoner who is held by one party to insure that another party will meet specified terms
praetor;an annually elected magistrate of the ancient roman republic
bolivian;a native or inhabitant of bolivia
re;ancient hawk-headed sun god. a universal creator
striver;someone who works as hard as a slave
persona grata;a diplomat who is acceptable to the government to which he is sent
embroiderer;someone who ornaments with needlework
spinner;someone who spins (who twists fibers into threads)
promoter;a sponsor who books and stages public entertainments
milliner;a merchant who designs and sells hats
andrew;disciple of jesus. brother of peter. patron saint of scotland
mover;someone who moves
hustler;(informal) a shrewd or unscrupulous person who knows how to circumvent difficulties
monopolizer;someone who monopolizes the means of producing or selling something
dental surgeon;a dentist qualified to perform surgical procedures
veterinarian;a doctor who practices veterinary medicine
preacher;someone who occupation is preaching the gospel
first nighter;someone habitually a spectator at the openings of theatrical productions
florence nightingale;1820-1910
thespian;a theatrical performer
fullback;the person who plays the fullback position on a football team
publius cornelius scipio africanus major;roman general who commanded the invasion of carthage in the second punic war and defeated hannibal at zama (circa 237-183 bc)
education secretary;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of education. 'carter appointed shirley hufstedler as the first secretary of education'
climber;someone who climbs as a sport
labor secretary;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of labor. 'the first labor secretary was william b. wilson who was appointed by president wilson'
sharpshooter;someone skilled in shooting
managing director;someone who controls resources and expenditures
kekchi;a member of a mayan people of north central guatemala
citizen;a native or naturalized member of a state or other political community
patternmaker;someone who makes patterns (as for sewing or carpentry or metalworking)
academic administrator;an administrator in a college or university
bad hat;someone who deliberately stirs up trouble
ludwig josef johan wittgenstein;1889-1951
pennsylvanian;a resident of pennsylvania
stock breeder;a person who breeds animals
actor s agent;a business agent for an actor
liver;someone who lives in a place. 'a liver in cities'
goat;a victim of ridicule or pranks
kafka;1883-1924
peeler;a worker who peels the skins from fruits and vegetables
daphne;(greek mythology) a nymph who was transformed into a laurel tree to escape the amorous apollo
examinee;someone who is tested (as by an intelligence test)
roadman;a worker who repairs roads
lady of pleasure;a woman who engages in sexual intercourse for money
pencil pusher;a clerk who does boring paperwork
fellow;a person who is member of your class or profession. 'the surgeon consulted his colleagues'. 'he sent e-mail to his fellow hackers'
liquidator;a criminal who performs unlawful premeditated killing of a human being
heir apparent;an heir whose right to an inheritance cannot be defeated if that person outlives the ancestor
advertiser;someone whose business is advertising
brother;a male with the same parents as someone else. 'my brother still lives with our parents'
presbyter;an elder in the presbyterian church
hellcat;a malicious fierce-tempered woman
party pooper;(informal) someone who spoils the pleasure of others
mesmerist;a person who induces hypnosis
john doe;an unknown party to legal proceedings
turk;a native or inhabitant of turkey
big wheel;(informal) an important influential person
balzac;french novelist. he portrays the complexity of 19th century french society (1799-1850)
zubird;(sumerian) evil storm god represented as a black bird
litterer;a person who litters public places with refuse
aerospace engineer;an engineer of aircraft and space vehicles
head;the educator who has executive authority for a school. 'she sent unruly pupils to see the principal'
boarder;a pupil who lives at school during term time
lobsterback;british soldier. so-called because of his red coat, esp. during the revolutionary war
zirbanit;(babylonian) consort of marduk
purchasing agent;an agent who purchases goods or services for another
visitant;someone who visits
distiller;someone who distills alcoholic liquors
federal agent;any agent or representative of a federal agency or bureau
kalapuya;a member of the north american indian people of the wilamette basin in oregon
greenhorn;an awkward and inexperienced youth
enate;one related on the mother's side
latino;an american whose first language was spanish
merchandiser;a businessperson engaged in retail trade
god;a man of such superior qualities that he seems like a deity to other people. 'he was a god among men'
allergist;a physician skilled in the diagnosis and treatment of allergies
ticket taker;someone who is paid to admit only those who have purchase tickets
anne boleyn;the second wife of henry viii of england and mother of elizabeth i. was executed on a charge of adultery (1507-1536)
cornhusker;a resident of nebraska
school principal;the educator who has executive authority for a school. 'she sent unruly pupils to see the principal'
infernal;an inhabitant of hell. 'his roar made the infernals quake'
showman;a sponsor who books and stages public entertainments
shark;a person who is unusually skilled in certain ways. 'a card shark'
nerd;a student who studies excessively
preceptor;(british) teacher at a university of college (especially at cambridge or oxford)
helpmeet;a helpful partner
hope;someone (or something) on which expectations are centered. 'he was their best hope for a victory'
dispatch rider;a messenger who carries military dispatches (usually on a motorcycle)
mineworker;laborer who works in a mine
instigator;someone who deliberately foments trouble. 'she was the instigator of their quarrel'
anglophile;an admirer of england and things english
excursionist;a tourist who is visiting sights of interest
tyche;the goddess of fortune. identified with roman fortuna
olympian;a classical greek god after the overthrow of the titans
cantor;the musical director of a choir
recluse;one who lives in solitude
walter reed;1851-1902
tractarian;a follower of tractarianism and supporter of the oxford movement (which was expounded in pamphlets called 'tracts for the times')
underwriter;a banker who deals chiefly in underwriting new securities
coachman;a man who drives a coach (or carriage)
conscientious objector;one who refuses to serve in the armed forces on grounds of conscience
jewess;a woman who is a jew
sister;(roman catholic) a title given to a nun (and used as a form of address). 'the sisters taught her to love god'
accommodation endorser;a person who endorses a promissory note without compensation or benefit but simply as a favor to the borrower
jordanian;a native or inhabitant of jordan
monetarist;an advocate of the theory that economic fluctuations are caused by increases or decreases in the supply of money
harry truman;elected vice president in roosevelt's 4th term. became 33rd president of the united states on roosevelt's death in 1945 and was elected president in 1948. authorized the use of atomic bombs against japan (1884-1972)
oculist;a medical doctor specializing in the treatment of diseases of the eye
authoritarian;behaves like a tyrant
yokuts;a member of the north american indian people of the san joaquin valley
infantryman;fights on foot with small arms
matador;the principal bullfighter who is appointed to make the final passes and kill the bull
violinist;a musician who plays the violin
wiz;someone who is very highly skilled
follower;someone who travels behind or pursues another
botcher;someone who makes mistakes because of incompetence
persecutor;someone who torments
peri;a beautiful and graceful girl
welfare worker;someone employed to provide social services (especially to the disadvantaged)
subordinate;someone subject to the authority or control of another
kali;wife of siva and malevolent form of devi. 'the black'
congressman;a member of the us house of representatives
utility man;a baseball player valued for the ability to play at several positions
sea nymph;(greek mythology) a daughter of the titans oceanus and tethys
buffoon;a person who amuses others by ridiculous behavior
legatee;someone to whom a legacy is bequeathed
controversialist;a person who disputes. who is good at or enjoys controversy
departer;someone who leaves
drill instructor;a noncommissioned officer who instructs recruits in military marching and discipline
castrato;a male singer who was castrated before puberty and retains a soprano or alto voice
ormazd;chief deity of zoroastrianism. source of light and embodiment of good
asian;a native or inhabitant of asia
houseman;an advanced student or graduate in medicine gaining supervised practical experience ('houseman' is a british term)
old lady;your own wife. 'meet my old lady'
samuel beckett;an author born in ireland who lived in france. wrote plays for the theater of the absurd (1906-1989)
cocksucker;a person who performs fellatio
booking agent;someone who engages a person or company for performances
ruth;the great-grandmother of king david whose story is told in the book of ruth in the old testament
mutterer;a person who speaks indistinctly
biologist;a scientist who studies living organisms
mule driver;a worker who drives mules
larcenist;a person who commits larceny
notable;a celebrity who is an inspiration to others. 'he was host to a large gathering of luminaries'
nootka;a member of the wakashan people living on vancouver island and in the cape flattery region of nw washington
mule skinner;a worker who drives mules
young woman;a young woman. 'a young lady of 18'
prima ballerina;a leading female ballet dancer
tiddler;a young person of either sex (between birth and puberty). 'she writes books for children'. 'they're just kids'. 'tiddler' is a british term for youngsters'
fashion consultant;someone who advises you about fashionable clothing
aussie;a native or inhabitant of australia
thomas malthus;an english economist who argued that increases in population would outgrow increases in the means of subsistence (1766-1834)
interrogator;a questioner who is excessively harsh
cyprian;a native or inhabitant of cyprus
pontus;ancient personification of the sea. father of nereus
client;someone who pays for goods or services
diehard;one who adheres to traditional views
flatfoot;a policeman who patrols a given region
varlet;in medieval times a youth acting as a knight's attendant as the first stage in training for knighthood
pupil;a child attending school
harridan;a scolding (even vicious) old woman
attorney general;the chief law officer of a country or state
madagascan;a native or inhabitant of madagascar
archpriest;a senior clergyman
musician;someone who plays a musical instrument (as a profession)
brihaspati;personification of the power of ritual devotion
enki;(sumerian) water god and god of wisdom. counterpart of the akkadian ea
inquiry agent;(british) a private detective
ecologist;a biologist who studies the relation between organisms and their environment
psycho;a person afflicted with psychosis
dastard;a malicious coward
devil worshiper;someone who worships devils
edward iii;(1312-1377) son of edward ii and king of england from 1327-1377. his claim to the french throne provoked the hundred years' war. his reign was marked by an epidemic of the black plague and by the emergence of the commons as the powerful arm of parliament
executioner;an official who inflicts capital punishment in pursuit of a warrant
messiah;jesus christ. considered by christians to be the promised deliverer
widowman;a man whose wife is dead especially one who has not remarried
whirling dervish;a dervish whose actions include ecstatic dancing and whirling
irregular;a member of an irregular armed force that fights a stronger force by sabotage and harassment
ropewalker;an acrobat who performs on a rope stretched at some height above the ground
slowpoke;someone who moves slowly. 'in england they call a slowpoke a slowcoach'
longbowman;a medieval english archer who used a longbow
mailman;a man who delivers the mail
practitioner;someone who practices a learned profession
grass widow;a divorced woman or a woman who is separated from her husband
baroness;a noblewoman who holds the rank of baron or who is the wife or widow of a baron
bondwoman;a female slave
interior designer;a person who specializes in designing architectural interiors and their furnishings
herpetologist;a zoologist who studies reptiles and amphibians
nip;a person of japanese descent
caregiver;a person who helps in identifying or preventing or treating illness or disability
methodist;a follower of wesleyanism as practiced by the methodist church
pioneer;one the first colonists or settler in a new territory. 'they went west as pioneers with only the possessions they could carry with them'
richard the lion hearted;(1157-1199) son of henry ii and king of england from 1189 to 1199. a leader of the third crusade. on his way home from the crusade he was captured and held prisoner in the holy roman empire until england ransomed him in 1194
wood nymph;a deity or nymph of the woods
moslem;a believer or follower of islam
party liner;a member of a political party who follows strictly the party line
agriculture secretary;the person who holds the secretaryship of the department of agriculture. 'the first secretary of agriculture was norman j. colman, who was appointed by cleveland'
utrillo;1883-1955
drinker;a person who takes nourishment by drinking
nob;an elegantly dressed man (often with affected manners)
tyrant;a dictator or dictatorial person
parvenu;a person who has suddenly risen to a higher economic status but has not gained social acceptance of others in that class
bankrupt;someone who has insufficient assets to cover their debts
private eye;someone who can be employed as a detective to collect information
stockjobber;(british) one who deals only with brokers or other jobbers
brute;a cruelly rapacious person
aunt;the sister of your father or mother. the wife of your uncle
kook;someone regarded as eccentric or crazy
tellus;goddess of the earth. protector of marriage and fertility. identified with greek gaea
enchantress;a female sorcerer or magician
portwatcher;a watchman on a wharf
fan;an enthusiastic devotee of sports
forefather;person from an earlier time who contributed to the tradition shared by some group. 'our forefathers brought forth a great nation'
tanner;a craftsman who tans skins and hides
arthur;elected vice president and became 21st president of the united states when garfield was assassinated (1830-1886)
postmaster;the person in charge of a post office
prestidigitator;someone who performs magic tricks to amuse an audience
talebearer;someone who gossips indiscreetly
activist;a militant reformer
nanny;a woman who is the custodian of children
missourian;a resident of missouri
clairvoyant;someone who has the power of clairvoyance
handyman;a man skilled in various odd jobs and other small tasks
cubist;an artist who adheres to the principles of cubism
test pilot;a pilot hired to fly experimental airplanes through maneuvers designed to test them
tastetester;someone who samples food or drink for its quality
learner;works for an expert to learn a trade
marcel proust;(1871-1922) french novelist
farm worker;a hired hand on a farm
legionary;a soldier who is a member of a legion (especially the french foreign legion)
squanderer;a recklessly extravagant consumer
wagonwright;a wagon maker
veteran;an experienced person. someone who has given long service
banderillero;the bullfighter who implants decorated darts (banderillas) into the neck or shoulders of the bull during a bull fight
giovanni cimabue;(1240-1302) painter of the florentine school. anticipated the move from byzantine to naturalistic art
missionary;someone who attempts to convert others to a particular doctrine or program
bilingual;a person who speaks two languages fluently
heidelberg man;a type of primitive man who lived in europe
water rat;a person who enjoys being in or on the water
ship breaker;a contractor who buys old ships and breaks them up for scrap
blackbeard;an english pirate who operated in the caribbean and off the atlantic coast of north america (died in 1718)
adjustor;one who investigates insurance claims or claims for damages and recommends an effective settlement
monozygotic twin;twins developed from the same fertilized ovum (having the same genetic material)
saint james the apostle;disciple of jesus. brother of john. author of the epistle of james in the new testament
fly by night;a debtor who flees to avoid paying
brahmin;a member of the highest of the four hindu castes. 'originally all brahmins were priests'
whoremonger;a pimp who procures whores
james ii;king of england and ireland and scotland. overthrown in 1688 (1633-1701)
soothsayer;someone who makes predictions of the future
tantrist;an adherent of tantrism
star;an actor who plays a principal role
aphakic;someone afflicted by aphakia. someone lacking the natural lenses of the eyes
name;a well-known person. 'they studied all the great names in the history of france'
master;directs the work of other
papa;an informal term for a father. probably derived from baby talk
presenter;person who makes a gift of property
counselor;gives advice about personal problems
celtic deity;a deity worshipped by the celts
earl;a british peer ranking below a marquess and above a viscount
destroyer;a person who destroys. 'a destroyer of the environment'
beau;a man who is the lover of a girl or young woman. 'if i'd known he was her boyfriend i wouldn't have asked'
councillor;a member of a council
retreatant;a participant in a religious retreat
mastermind;someone who has exceptional intellectual ability and originality
wampanoag;a member of the algonquian people of rhode island and massachusetts who greeted the pilgrims
illustrator;an artist who makes illustrations (for books or magazines or advertisements etc.)
small fry;a young person of either sex (between birth and puberty). 'she writes books for children'. 'they're just kids'. 'tiddler' is a british term for youngsters'
trafficker;someone who exchanges goods or services for money
heimdall;god of dawn and light. guardian of asgard
dostoyevski;russian novelist (1821-1881)
cocus;one of the titans
chief petty officer;a person with the senior noncommissioned naval rank
john dewey;1859-1952
sipper;someone who drinks by sucking or sipping
napaea;greek mythology
slugger;a ballplayer who is batting
disparager;one who disparages or belittles the worth of something
crone;an ugly evil-looking old woman
jerry;offensive terms for a person of german descent
sentinel;a person employed to watch for something to happen
junky;a narcotics addict
mohammedan;a believer or follower of islam
eavesdropper;a secret listener to private conversations
beldam;a woman of advanced age
valet de chambre;a manservant who acts as a personal attendant to his employer. 'jeeves was bertie wooster's man'
neologist;a lexicographer of new words and expressions
hernan cortes;(1485-1547) spanish conquistador who defeated the aztecs and conquered mexico
worm;has a nasty or unethical character undeserving of respect
aristotle;one of the greatest of the ancient athenian philosophers (384-322 bc). pupil of plato. teacher of alexander the great
reminder;someone who gives a warning so that a mistake can be avoided
onondaga;a member of the iroquoian people formerly living between lake chaplain and the saint lawrence river
servant;a person working in the service of another
rapscallion;a deceitful and unreliable scoundrel
coiffeuse;a woman hairdresser
henry beauclerc;(1068-1135) king of england from 1100 to 1135. youngest son of william the conqueror. conquered normandy in 1106
bushwhacker;a disparaging term for an unsophisticated person
apsu;(akkadian) father of the gods and consort of tiamat
ojibway;a member of an algonquian people who lived w of lake superior
encyclopedist;a person who compiles (or writes for) encyclopedias
billiard player;someone who plays billiards
stabber;someone who stabs another person
wheeler dealer;(informal) a shrewd or unscrupulous person who knows how to circumvent difficulties
contributor;someone who contributes (or promises to contribute) a sum of money
infiltrator;an intruder (as troops) with hostile intent
marine engineer;an officer responsible for the operation and maintenance of the ship's engines
rivetter;a worker who inserts and hammers rivets
twerp;someone who is regarded as contemptible
matron;a married woman (usually middle-aged with children) who is staid and dignified
puritan;adheres to strict religious principles. opposed to sensual pleasures
shot putter;an athlete who competes in the shot put
gagman;someone who writes comic material for public performers
nebraskan;a resident of nebraska
pardoner;a medieval cleric who raised money for the church by selling papal indulgences
folk writer;a writer of folktales
bourgeois;a member of the middle class
herdsman;someone who drives a herd
plutarch;the greek biographer who wrote parallel lives (a collection of biographies of famous greeks and romans that shakespeare used in writing his plays). (46?-120 ad)
lifer;a prisoner serving a term of life imprisonment
rogue;a deceitful and unreliable scoundrel
edward the confessor;king of the english from 1042 to 1066. reign marked by conflict with the normans
lottery winner;the winner of a lottery
hemiplegic;a person who has hemiplegia (is paralyzed on one side of the body)
auditor;a student who attends a course but does not take it for credit
hardwareman;someone who sells hardware. 'in england they call a hardwareman an ironmonger'
juvenile delinquent;a young offender
granny;the mother of your father or mother
shipbuilder;a person who builds ships as a business
four minute man;someone who has run the mile is less that 4 minutes
malto;a member of the dravidian people living in n bengal in eastern india
galileo galilei;italian astronomer and mathematician. demonstrated that different weights descend at the same rate. perfected the refracting telescope that enabled him to make many discoveries (1564-1642)
young lady;a young woman. 'a young lady of 18'
haile selassie;(1892-1975) emperor of ethiopia. worshipped by rastafarians
immortal;a person (such as an author) of enduring fame. 'shakespeare is one of the immortals'
free agent;someone acting freely or even irresponsibly
coiner;(british) a maker of counterfeit coins
intelligence agent;a person secretly employed in espionage for a government
duke;a british peer of the highest rank
espionage agent;someone employed to spy on another country or business competitor
licensee;someone to who a license is granted
pythius;epithet for apollo. from the dragon python which he killed
hurler;(baseball or softball) the person who does the pitching. 'our pitcher has a sore arm'
william howard taft;27th president of the united states and late chief justice of the us supreme court (1857-1930)
robert i;king of scotland from 1306 to 1329. defeated the english army under edward ii at bannockburn and gained recognition of scottish independence
charles peirce;(1839-1914) a pioneer of pragmatism
trainmaster;a railroad employer who is in charge of a rail yard
gray friar;a catholic friar wearing the gray habit of the franciscan order
bishop berkeley;1685-1753
knight of the square flag;a knight honored for valor. entitled to display a square banner and to hold higher command
sunni;a member of the branch of islam that accepts the first four caliphs as rightful successors to mohammed
yeats;1865-1939
ninkhursag;(sumerian) the great mother goddess. worshipped also as aruru and mama and nintu
broad;slang term for a woman. 'a broad is a woman who can throw a mean punch'
blockhead;these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
assistant foreman;a member of a work gang who supervises the other workers
schoolgirl;a girl attending school
visualizer;one whose prevailing mental imagery is visual
nganasan;a member of the samoyedic people living on the taimyr peninsula in siberia
stammerer;someone who speaks with involuntary pauses and repetitions
paediatrician;a specialist in the care of babies
lowerclassman;an undergraduate who is not yet a senior
niece;a daughter or your brother or sister
connecticuter;a resident of connecticut
crazy;someone deranged and possibly dangerous
fabricator;someone who tells lies
giant;a very large person. impressive in size or qualities
eldest;the offspring who came first in the order of birth
zeno;(ca 495-430 bc) greek philosopher who formulated paradoxes that defended the belief that motion and change are illusory
father;god when considered as the first person in the trinity. 'hear our prayers, heavenly father'
usurper;one who wrongfully or illegally seizes and holds the place of another
sky pilot;a chaplain in one of the military services
town clerk;the official who keeps a town's records
witness;a person who attests to the genuineness of a document or signature by adding their own signature
roustabout;a member of a ship's crew who performs manual labor
technical sergeant;a noncommissioned officer ranking below a master sergeant in the air force or marines
vice admiral;an admiral ranking below a full admiral and above a rear admiral
sleepyhead;a sleepy person
martyr;one who voluntarily suffers death as the penalty for refusing to renounce their religion
phrygian deity;deity of the ancient phrygians of west central asia minor
compulsive;a person with a compulsive disposition. someone who feels compelled to do certain things
moroccan;a native or inhabitant of morocco
visually handicapped person;someone handicapped by inferior vision
newsperson;a person who investigates and reports or edits news stories
matchmaker;someone who arranges (or tries to arrange) marriages for others
roman;an inhabitant of the ancient roman empire
naiad;(greek mythology) a nymph of lakes and springs and rivers and fountains
crammer;a student who crams
copt;an egyptian descended from the ancient egyptians
panhandler;a beggar who approaches strangers asking for money
polack;a person of polish descent
soubrette;a pert or flirtatious young girl
boone;(1734-1820) an american pioneer and guide and explorer
robbery suspect;someone suspected of committing robbery
puddler;a worker who turns pig iron into wrought iron by puddling
lee;american general who led the confederate armies in the american civil war (1807-1870)
ea;(akkadian) god of wisdom. son of apsu and father of marduk. counterpart of the sumerian enki. (babylonian) god of waters and one of the supreme triad including anu and bel
hupa;a member of the athapaskan people of the trinity river valley in california
kishar;(babylonian) consort of anshar. in sumerian the name signifies 'the totality of the lower world'
chairman of the board;the chairman of the board of directors of a corporation
junior;term of address for a disrespectful and annoying male. 'look here, junior, it's none of your business'
rossetti;(1828-1882) english poet and painter who was a leader of the pre-raphaelites
elizabeth ii;1926-
chamberlain;an officer who manages the household of a king or nobleman
lion hunter;someone who hunts lions
bootlicker;someone who humbles himself as a sign of respect. who behaves as he had no self-respect
dostoevsky;russian novelist (1821-1881)
pleasure seeker;someone motivated by desires for sensual pleasures
warden;the chief official in charge of a prison
saint christopher;a christian martyr of the 3rd century. the patron saint of travellers
horticulturist;an expert in the science of cultivating plants (fruit or flowers or vegetables or ornamental plants)
walter gropius;a united states architect born in germany (1883-1969)
yearling;a young child
negotiatress;a woman negotiator
salesperson;a person employed to sell merchandise (as to customers in a store or to customers that are visited)
sectarian;a member of a sect who is intolerant of the views of any other sect
ostler;someone employed in a stable to take care of the horses
muazzin;the moslem official of a mosque who summons the faithful to prayer from a minaret five times a day
gaius falminius;roman statesman and general who built the flaminian way. was defeated by hannibal at trasimene (died 217 bc)
exporter;a businessperson who transports goods abroad (for sale)
noble;a titled peer of the realm
commissioned military officer;a commissioned officer in the army or air force or marine corp
contrapuntist;a composer who specializes in counterpoint
judas;someone who betrays under the guise of friendship
broth of a boy;an outstanding person. as if produced by boiling down a savory broth
hernan cortez;(1485-1547) spanish conquistador who defeated the aztecs and conquered mexico
lease giver;someone who grants a lease
signatory;someone who signs and is bound by a document
familiar;a person attached to the household of a high official (as a pope or bishop) who renders service in return for support
sport;someone who engages in sports
peruvian;a native or inhabitant of peru
realtor;a person who is authorized to act as an agent for the sale of land. 'in england they call a realtor a land agent'
iron chancellor;(1815-1898) german statesman under whose leadership germany was united
baby buster;a person born in the generation following the baby boom when the birth rate fell dramatically
chief operating officer;the corporate executive responsible for the operations of the firm. reports to a board of directors. may appoint other managers (including a president)
tenant;any occupant who dwells in a place
centrist;a person who takes a position in the political center
tobbaconist;a retail dealer in tobacco and tobacco related articles
nobody;a person of no influence
tantalizer;someone given to teasing (as by mocking or stirring curiosity)
lady s maid;a maid who is a lady's personal attendant
shithead;these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
general agent;an agent who sells insurance
mickey;ethnic slur. a person of irish descent
police sergeant;a lawman with the rank of sergeant
ex;a man who was formerly a certain woman's husband
black;a person with dark skin who comes from africa (or whose ancestors came from africa)
james earl carter;39th president of the united states (1924- )
kampuchean;a native or inhabitant of cambodia
isaac newton;english mathematician and physicist. remembered for developing the calculus and for his law of gravitation and his three laws of motion (1642-1727)
jeweller;someone who makes jewelry
lackey;a male servant (especially a footman)
robert walpole;(1676-1745) english whig statesman who (under george i) was effectively the first british prime minister
stiff;an ordinary man. 'a lucky stiff'. 'a working stiff'
designer;someone who creates plans for buildings
ushas;goddess of dawn. daughter of sky and sister of night
predecessor;one who precedes you in time (as in holding a position or office)
challenger;the contestant you hope to defeat. 'he had respect for his rivals'. 'he wanted to know what the competition was doing'
frank;a member of the ancient germanic peoples who spread from the rhine into the roman empire in the 4th century
mama s boy;a boy excessively attached to his mother. lacking normal masculine interests
dry nurse;a nurse who cares for but does not suckle an infant
pudding head;a person who is not very bright: 'the economy, stupid!'
starveling;someone who is starving (or being starved)
herbert clark hoover;31st president of the united states. in 1929 the stock market crashed and the economy collapsed and hoover was defeated for re-election by franklin roosevelt (1874-1964)
odd fish;someone regarded as eccentric or crazy
privateer;an officer or crew member of a privateer
drawler;someone who speaks with a drawl
grantor;a person who grants something
woodcarver;makes decorative wooden panels
wishful thinker;a person who escapes into a world of fantasy
frequenter;a regular customer
responder;someone who responds
docker;a laborer who loads and unloads vessels in a port
pooh bah;an arrogant or conceited person of importance
sergeant;an english barrister of the highest rank
pasteur;(1822-1895) french chemist and biologist whose discovery that fermentation is caused by microorganisms resulted in the process of pasteurization
enlisted man;a male enlisted person in the armed forces
motion picture fan;someone who goes to see movies
coxcomb;a conceited dandy who is overly impressed by his own accomplishments
epona;(possibly roman) goddess of horses and mules and asses
cognoscenti;an expert able to appreciate a field. especially in the fine arts
milliner;someone who makes and sells hats
spender;someone who spends money
forester;someone trained in forestry
peter;disciple of jesus. regarded by catholics as the vicar of christ on earth
gay man;a homosexual man
stenographer;someone skilled in the transcription of speech (especially dictation)
tike;a young person of either sex (between birth and puberty). 'she writes books for children'. 'they're just kids'. 'tiddler' is a british term for youngsters'
sawbones;a physician who specializes in surgery
edward i;(1239-1307) king of england from 1272 to 1307. conquered wales
sartor;a person whose occupation is making and altering garments
scholar;a student who holds a scholarship
mattole;a member of the athapaskan people living in nw california
speechmaker;a person who delivers a speech or oration
adonis;(classical mythology) a handsome youth loved by aphrodite, the goddess of love
bruce;king of scotland from 1306 to 1329. defeated the english army under edward ii at bannockburn and gained recognition of scottish independence
wyomingite;a resident of wyoming
drifter;a wanderer who has no established residence or visible means of support
air force officer;an officer in the airforce
perfectionist;a person is displeased by anything that does not meet very high standards
st. bridget;irish abbess. a patron saint of ireland
attila;(406-453) king of the huns. the most successful barbarian invader of the roman empire
toff;an elegantly dressed man (often with affected manners)
io;(greek mythology) a maiden seduced by zeus. when hera was about to discover them together zeus turned her into a white heifer
justice;a public official authorized to decide questions bought before a court of justice
urth;goddess of fate: past
lobbyist;someone who tries to persuade legislators to vote for bills they favor
carpet knight;a knight who spends his time in luxury and idleness (knighted on the carpet at court rather than on the field of battle)
dante gabriel rossetti;(1828-1882) english poet and painter who was a leader of the pre-raphaelites
pamlico;a member of the algonquian people formerly of the pamlico river valley in north carolina
killer;someone who causes the death of a person or animal
ear specialist;a physician who specializes in the ear and its diseases
dog;someone who is morally reprehensible. 'you dirty dog'
eris;(greek mythology) goddess of discord. sister of ares
toller;someone employed to collect tolls
walker;a person who travels by foot
accused;a person against whom an action is brought in a court of law
rn;a graduate nurse who has passed examinations for registration
martinet;someone who demands exact conformity to rules and forms
boater;someone who drives or rides in a boat
non jew;in this sense 'gentile' denotes a christian as contrasted with a jew. 'goy' is a derogatory word for christians used by jews
bonehead;these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
jonah;a person believed to bring bad luck to those around him
njorth;chief of the vanir. god of the sea and winds and prosperity. father of frey and freya. sometimes subsumes teutonic nerthus
tout;one who sells advice about gambling or speculation
loggerhead;these words are used to express a low opinion of someone's intelligence
tenderfoot;an inexperienced person (especially someone inexperienced in outdoor living)
juvenile person;a youthful person
kwakiutl;a member of the wakashan people living on queen charlotte sound and northern vancouver island
conveyer;a person who conveys (carries or transmits). 'the conveyer of good tidings'
sultan of swat;(1895-1948) us professional baseball player famous for hitting home runs
cleveland;22nd and 24th president of the united states (1837-1908)
mountie;colloquial term for a member of the royal canadian mounted police
clan member;a member of a clan
finn;a native or inhabitant of finland
home secretary;the british cabinet minister who is head of the home office
jeweler;someone in the business of selling jewelry
baldy;a person whose head is bald
skeptic;someone who habitually doubts accepted beliefs
daniel;a wise and upright judge. 'a daniel come to judgment' -- shakespeare
hobo;a disreputable wanderer
madman;an insane person
bantamweight;weighs no more than 118 pounds
gossiper;a person given to gossiping
free spirit;someone acting freely or even irresponsibly
boatbuilder;a person who builds boats
paperhanger;one whose occupation is decorating walls with wallpaper
informant;someone who sees an event and tells what happened
mohammed;(570-632) the prophet who founded islam
vicar;(church of england) a clergyman appointed to act as priest of a parish
newswoman;a female newsperson
antediluvian;a very old (or old fashioned) person
writer;writes (books or stories or articles or the like) professionally (for pay)
st matthew;disciple of jesus. author of the first gospel
station agent;the person in charge of a railway station
wealthy person;a person who possesses great material wealth
leatherneck;a member of the us marine corps
logical positivist;someone who maintains that any statement that cannot be verified empirically is meaningless
ponce;someone who procures customers for whores (in england they call a pimp a ponce)
sportscaster;an announcer who reads sports news or describes sporting events
young turk;a radical who agitates for reform
fire eater;a performer who pretends to swallow fire
banshee;(irish folklore) a female spirit who wails to warn of impending death
virago;a large strong and aggressive woman
law officer;an officer of the law
bursar;the treasurer at a college or university
house detective;a private detective employed by a hotel or retail store
aberrant;one whose behavior departs substantially from the norm of a group
bird fancier;a person have a strong interest in birds
namibian;a native or inhabitant of namibia
spectator;a close observer. someone who looks at something (such as an exhibition of some kind). 'the spectators applauded the performance'. 'television viewers'. 'sky watchers discovered a new star'
stirrer;a person who spreads frightening rumors
one of the boys;a man who has been socially accepted into a group of other men. 'he quickly became one of the boys'
player;someone who plays a musical instrument (as a profession)
private;an enlisted man of the lowest rank. 'our prisoner was just a private and knew nothing of value'
ophthalmologist;a medical doctor specializing in the treatment of diseases of the eye
federal;a member of the union army during the american civil war
lover;an ardent follower
counterspy;a spy who works against enemy espionage
dullard;a person who evokes boredom
turki;any member of the peoples speaking a turkic language
lame duck;an elected official still in office but not slated to continue
fogey;(informal) someone whose style is out of fashion
prosecuting attorney;a lawyer who conducts criminal prosecutions on behalf of the state
numismatist;a collector and student of money (and coins in particular)
chief;a person who exercises control over workers. 'if you want to leave early you have to ask the foreman'
sire;a title of address formerly used for a man of rank and authority
jilt;a woman who jilts a lover
quadroon;an offspring of a mulatto and a white parent. a person who is one-quarter black
tulu;a member of a dravidian people living on the sw coast of india
nonreligious person;a person who does not manifest devotion to a deity
nursling;an infant consider in relation to its nurse
lepidopterist;an entomologist who specializes in the collection and study of butterflies and moths
lenin;russian founder of the bolsheviks and leader of the russian revolution and first head of the ussr (1870-1924)
official;a worker who holds or is invested with an office
roosevelt;26th president of the united states. hero of the spanish-american war. panama canal was built during his administration. said 'speak softly but carry a big stick' (1858-1919)
paraguayan;a native or inhabitant of paraguay
merlin;(arthurian legend) the magician who acted as king arthur's advisor
raconteur;a person skilled in telling anecdotes
slave trader;a person engaged in slave trade
postmaster general;the official in charge of the national postal service
saturn;(roman mythology) god of agriculture and vegetation. counterpart of greek cronus. 'saturday is saturn's day'
horse trader;a hard bargainer
bogy;an evil spirit
stonewaller;one who stonewalls or refuses to answer or cooperate
morris dancer;someone who does a morris dance
farmerette;a woman working on a farm
vestal;a chaste woman
street girl;a prostitute who attracts customers by walking the streets
rightist;a member of a right wing political party
alien;anyone who does not belong in the environment in which they are found
scion;a descendent or heir. 'a scion of royal stock'
cleaner;the operator of dry-cleaning establishment
progenitor;an ancestor in the direct line
senhor;a portuguese title of respect. equivalent to english 'mr'
namedropper;someone who pretends that famous people are his/her friends
lapidarist;an expert on precious stones and the art of cutting and engraving them
sensation;someone who is very highly skilled
aidoneus;(classical mythology) the god of the underworld in ancient mythology. brother of zeus and husband of persephone
faunus;ancient rural deity. later considered a counterpart of greek pan
chuang tzu;4th-century chinese philosopher on whose teachings lao-tzu based taoism
comptroller general;a us federal official who supervises expenditures and settles claims against the government
connoisseur;an expert able to appreciate a field. especially in the fine arts
economizer;a person who economizes and avoids waste
cornhusker;a worker who husks corn
piltdown man;a supposedly primitive man later proven to be a hoax
plutocrat;someone who exercises power by virtue of wealth
danseur;a male ballet dancer who is the partner of a ballerina
military officer;any person in the armed services who holds a position of authority or command. 'an officer is responsible for the lives of his men'
cassandra;(classical mythology) a prophetess in troy during the trojan war whose predictions were true but were never believed
filing clerk;a clerk who is employed to maintain the files of an organization
vithar;one of the aesir. son of odin. avenges his parent by slaying fenrir at ragnarok
toiler;one who works strenuously
captain;a policeman in charge of a precinct
charge d affaires;the official temporarily in charge of a diplomatic mission in the absence of the ambassador
dropout;someone who withdraws from a social group or environment
adjutant;an officer who acts as military assistant
church officer;a church official
in law;a relative by marriage
survivor;one who outlives another. 'he left his farm to his survivors'
galahad;(arthurian legend) the most virtuous knight of the round table. was able to see the holy grail
braxton bragg;confederate general during the american civil war who was defeated by grant in the battle of chattanooga (1817-1876)
protector;a person who cares for persons or property
pasha;a civil or military authority in turkey or egypt
dravidian;a member of one of the aboriginal races of india (pushed south by caucasians and now mixed with them)
verrazano;florentine explorer of the eastern coast of north america (circa 1485-1528)
forelady;a woman who is foreperson of a jury
spiritual jewel;a member of the taoist trinity. identified with lao-tse
unionist;a worker who belongs to a trade union
co star;one of two actors who are given equal status as stars in a play or film
limey;a man of english descent
auxiliary;someone who acts as assistant
dodgson;english author. charles dodgson was an oxford don of mathematics who is remembered for the children's stories he wrote under the pen name lewis carroll (1832-1898)
fomor;(irish) one of a group of sea demons sometimes associated with the hostile power of nature
hubby;a married man. a woman's partner in marriage
judith;(apocrypha) jewish heroine who saved her people by decapitating the assyrian general holofernes
dostoyevsky;russian novelist (1821-1881)
chief justice;the judge who presides over a supreme court
giver;person who makes a gift of property
earth mother;the earth conceived of as the female principle of fertility
usherette;a female usher
anton pavlovich chekov;russian dramatist (1860-1904)
richard milhous nixon;vice president under eisenhower and 37th president of the united states. resigned after the watergate scandal in 1974 (1913-1994)
turncock;one employed to control water supply by turning water mains on and off
yachtswoman;sails a yacht
consumer;a person who uses goods or services
ringer;a contestant entered in a competition under false pretenses
day boarder;a schoolchild at a boarding school who has meals at school but sleeps at home
envoy;a diplomat having less authority than an ambassador
morgan;1837-1913
rara avis;a rare or unique person
consort;a person's partner in marriage
powerhouse;a highly energetic and indefatigable person
political dissident;a dissenter from political orthodoxy
jamaican;a native or inhabitant of jamaica
bard;a lyric poet
warder;the chief official in charge of a prison
agricultural laborer;a person who tills the soil for a living
negotiator;someone who negotiates (confers with others in order to reach an agreement)
dp;a person forced to flee from home or country
right hander;a person who uses the right hand more skillfully than the left
executive;a person responsible for the administration of a business
forward;the person who plays the position of forward on a basketball team
gaia;(greek mythology) goddess of the earth and mother of cronus and the titans in ancient mythology
stick in the mud;someone who moves slowly. 'in england they call a slowpoke a slowcoach'
colombian;a native or inhabitant of colombia
navajo;a member of an athapaskan people that migrated to arizona and new mexico and utah
mrs. gandhi;(1917-1984) daughter of nehru who served as prime minister of india from 1966 to 1977
reaper;someone who helps to gather the harvest
medical specialist;practices one branch of medicine
cakchiquel;a member of the mayan people living in south central guatemala
horse fancier;a person who breeds and cares for horses
wainwright;a wagon maker
galley slave;a slave condemned to row in a galley
fitter;someone who fits a garment to a particular person
indian;a member of the race of people living in north america when europeans arrived
procuress;a woman procurer
joshua;moses' successor who led the israelites into the promised land. best remembered for his destruction of jericho
welshman;a native or resident of wales
instrument;a person used by another to gain an end
anguillan;a native or inhabitant of the island of anguilla in the west indies
asura;earlier a god. later a demon. counterpart of zoroastrian ahura
handwriting expert;a specialist in inferring character from handwriting
solon;a man who is a respected leader in national or international affairs
hoth;a blind god. misled by loki he kills balder by throwing a bough of mistletoe
cobber;australian term for a pal
seth;evil beast-headed god with high square ears and a long snout. brother and murder of osiris
subject;a person who owes allegiance to that nation. 'a monarch has a duty to his subjects'
sailor;a serviceman in the navy
pseud;a person who makes deceitful pretenses
maha;a member of the siouan people formerly living in the missouri river valley in ne nebraska
restaurateur;the proprietor of a restaurant
curmudgeon;a crusty irascible cantankerous old person full of stubborn ideas
mom;informal terms for a mother
intellectual;a person who uses the mind creatively
airman;someone who operates and aircraft
pacificist;someone opposed to violence as a means of settling disputes
fugitive from justice;someone who is sought by law officers. someone trying to elude justice
demographist;a scientist who studies the growth and density of populations and their vital statistics
field judge;a football official
thomas a becket;(1118-1170) archbishop of canterbury from 1162 to 1170. murdered following his opposition to henry ii concerning henry's attempts to control the clergy
daniel morgan;soldier in the american revolutionary war who defeated the british in the battle of cowpens, south carolina (1736-1802)
napoleon;1769-1821
maharani;a great rani. a princess in india or the wife of a maharaja
diplomatic minister;a diplomat representing one government to another. ranks below ambassador
nurse;one skilled in caring for the sick (usually under the supervision of a physician)
street urchin;a child who spends most of his time in the streets especially in slum areas
tracklayer;a workman who lays and repairs railroad tracks
draftee;a serviceman who is drafted
storm trooper;a member of the nazi s.a.
thetis;one of the 50 nereids. mother of achilles by peleus
sire;the founder of a family. 'keep the faith of our forefathers'
pop;an informal term for a father. probably derived from baby talk
comedian;a professional performer who tells jokes and performs comic acts
heart specialist;a specialist in cardiology. a specialist in the structure and function and disorders of the heart
hoenir;one of the aesir having a strong and beautiful body but a dull mind
college boy;a student (or former student) at a college or university
crybaby;a person who lacks confidence, is irresolute and wishy-washy
unfortunate person;a person who suffers misfortune
defense lawyer;the lawyer representing the defendant
honky;offensive name for white person
scum bag;a person who is deemed to be despicable or contemptible. 'only a rotter would do that'. 'kill the rat'. 'throw the bum out'. 'you cowardly little pukes!'
heterosexual;a heterosexual person. someone having a sexual orientation to persons of the opposite sex
illiterate person;a person unable to read
semanticist;a specialist in the study of linguistic meaning
vamp;a seductive woman who uses her sex appeal to exploit men
muhammadan;a believer or follower of islam
