stockpile;something kept back or saved for future use or a special purpose
net;the excess of revenues over outlays in a given period of time
c note;a us bill worth 100 dollars
conditional sale;a security interest taken by the seller in return for credit
stake;a right or legal share of something. a financial involvement with something. 'they have interests all over the world'. 'a stake in the company's future'
pot;the cumulative stake in a game (such as poker)
reacquired stock;stock that has been bought back by the issuing corporation and is available for retirement or resale. it is issued but not outstanding. it cannot vote and pays no dividends
petty cash;a small fund of cash that a firm keeps for the payment of incidental expenses
charge plate;a card (usually plastic) that assures a seller that the person using it has a satisfactory credit rating and that the issuer will see to it that the seller receives payment for the merchandise delivered
tenpence;(brit) uk decimal coin worth ten pennies
reversion;(law) an interest in an estate that reverts to the grantor (or his heirs) at the end of some period (e.g., the death of the grantee)
peag;small beads made from polished shells and formerly used as money by native americans
ninepence;a coin worth nine pennies
allowance account;a reserve fund created by a charge against profits in order to provide for changes in the value of a company's assets
m3;a measure of the money supply. m2 plus deposits at institutions that are not banks (such as savings and loan associations)
government income;income available to the government
bill;a piece of paper money (especially one issued by a central bank). 'he peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes'
monetary system;anything that is generally accepted as a standard of value and a measure of wealth
silver dollar;a dollar made of silver
earning per share;the portion of a company's profit allocated to each outstanding share of common stock
cartwheel;a dollar made of silver
common stock equivalent;preferred stock or convertible bonds or stock warrants that can be converted into common stock
liquid asset;assets in the form of money (or easily convertible into money)
economic rent;the return derived from cultivated land in excess of that derived from the poorest land cultivated under similar conditions
treasury shares;stock that has been bought back by the issuing corporation and is available for retirement or resale. it is issued but not outstanding. it cannot vote and pays no dividends
net sales;gross sales reduced by customer discounts, returns, freight out, and allowances
maintenance;means of maintenance of a family or group
ducat;formerly a gold coin of various european countries
banknote;a piece of paper money (especially one issued by a central bank). 'he peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes'
greenback;a piece of paper money (especially one issued by a central bank). 'he peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes'
hot issue;newly issued stock that is in great public demand
wager;the money risked on a gamble
commercial credit;credit granted by a bank to a business concern for commercial purposes
home equity credit;a loan secured by equity value in the borrower's home
support;financial resources provided to make some project possible. 'the foundation provided support for the experiment'
store;a supply of something available for future use. 'he brought back a large store of cuban cigars'
venture;an investment that is very risky but could yield great profits. 'he knew the stock was a speculation when he bought it'
hundred dollar bill;a us bill worth 100 dollars
capital;the material wealth owned by a person or a business
trough;a treasury for government funds
unearned increment;an unearned rise in the market value of property resulting from general market factors
accumulation;(finance) profits that are not paid out as dividends but are added to the capital base of the corporation
m1;a measure of the money supply. includes currency in circulation plus demand deposits or checking account balances
yield;the income arising from land or other property. 'the average return was about 5%'
wherewithal;the necessary means (especially financial means)
issue;supplies (as food or clothing or ammunition) issued by the government
net income;the excess of revenues over outlays in a given period of time
money supply;the total stock of money in the economy. currency held by the public plus money in accounts in banks
installment credit;a loan repaid with interest in equal periodic payments
material resource;assets in the form of material possessions
swag;(informal) valuable goods
gain;the amount by which the revenue of a business exceeds its cost of operating
capital stock;the maximum number of shares authorized under the the terms of a corporations articles of incorporation
security;defense against financial failure. 'his pension gave him security in his old age'. 'insurance provided protection against loss of wages due to illness'
dime;a us coin worth one tenth of a dollar
insurance;promise of reimbursement in the case of loss. paid to people or companies so concerned about hazards that they have made prepayments to an insurance company
reserve;something kept back or saved for future use or a special purpose
chantry;an endowment for the singing of masses
check overdraft credit;credit provided by a bank in honoring a customer's overdrafts
means;considerable capital (wealth or income). 'he is a man of means'
doubloon;a former spanish gold coin
cummulative preferred stock;preferred stock whose dividends if omitted accumulate until paid out
king s ransom;a very large treasure
profit sharing;a system in which employees receive a share of the net profits of the business
soil bank;land retired from crop cultivation and planted with soil-building crops. government subsidies are paid to farmers for their retired land
loss;the amount by which the cost of a business exceeds its revenue. 'the company operated at a loss last year'
hot stock;newly issued stock that is in great public demand
federal reserve note;a piece of paper money (especially one issued by a central bank). 'he peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes'
sou;a former french coin of low denomination. often used of any small amount of money. 'he hasn't a sou to his name'
shilling;an english coin worth one twentieth of a pound
resource;available source of wealth. a new or reserve supply that can be drawn upon when needed
controlling interest;ownership of more than 50% of a corporation's voting shares
fourpence;a former english silver coin worth four pennies
pelf;informal terms for money
groat;a former english silver coin worth four pennies
gross profit margin;(corporate finance) net sales minus the cost of goods and services sold
token money;coins of regular issue whose face value is greater than their intrinsic value
equity;the ownership interest of shareholders in a corporation
patrimony;a church endowment
treasury;the funds of a government or institution or individual
fund;a supply of something available for future use. 'he brought back a large store of cuban cigars'
pocket;a supply of money. 'they dipped into the taxpayers' pockets'
classified stock;common stock classified as a or b where a has certain advantages (e.g., voting power) that b does not
bank;a supply or stock held in reserve especially for future use (especially in emergencies)
sum of money;a quantity of money. 'he borrowed a large sum'. 'the amount he had in cash was insufficient'
killing;(informal) a very large profit
blue chip;a common stock of a nationally known company whose value and dividends are reliable. typically have high price and low yield
growth stock;stock of a corporation that has had faster than average gains in earnings and is expected to continue to
tax revenue;government income due to taxation
centime;a coin worth one-hundredth of the value of the basic unit
natural resources;resources (actual and potential) supplied by nature
paysheet;the total amount of money paid in wages. 'the company had a large payroll'
stakes;the money risked on a gamble
proceeds;the income arising from land or other property. 'the average return was about 5%'
line;the maximum credit that a customer is allowed
quarter stock;stock with a par value of __25/share
allotment;a share set aside for a specific purpose
disposable income;income (after taxes) that is available to you for saving or spending
half dollar;a us coin worth half of a dollar
quota;a proportional share assigned to each participant
good will;(accounting) an intangible asset valued according to the advantage or reputation a business has acquired (over and above its tangible assets)
issue;the income arising from land or other property. 'the average return was about 5%'
gravy train;income obtained with a minimum of effort
livelihood;the financial means whereby one lives. 'each child was expected to pay for their keep'. 'he applied to the state for support'. 'he could no longer earn his own livelihood'
preferred stock;stock whose holders are guaranteed priority in the payment of dividends
substance;considerable capital (wealth or income). 'he is a man of means'
labor resources;resources of available manpower
amount;a quantity of money. 'he borrowed a large sum'. 'the amount he had in cash was insufficient'
per capita income;the total national income divided by the number of people in the nation
support;the financial means whereby one lives. 'each child was expected to pay for their keep'. 'he applied to the state for support'. 'he could no longer earn his own livelihood'
copper;a copper penny
financial backing;financial resources provided to make some project possible. 'the foundation provided support for the experiment'
revolving fund;a fund which, if borrowed or used, is intended to be replenished so it may be loaned or spent repeatedly
charge account credit;a consumer credit line that can be used up to a certain limit or paid down at any time
escrow funds;funds held in escrow
stock;the capital raised by a corporation through the issue of shares entitling holders to partial ownership. 'he owns a controlling share of the company's stock'
pecuniary resource;assets in the form of money
seed corn;good quality seeds (as kernels of corn) that are reserved for planting
term insurance;low-cost life insurance. valid only for a stated period of time
gross profit;(corporate finance) net sales minus the cost of goods and services sold
pension fund;a fund reserved to pay workers' pensions
trust fund;a fund held in trust
banker s bill;a piece of paper money (especially one issued by a central bank). 'he peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes'
subsistence;minimal (or marginal) resources for subsisting. 'social security provided only a bare subsistence'
guinea;a former british gold coin worth 21 chillings
charge account;credit extended by a business to a customer
bread and butter;the financial means whereby one lives. 'each child was expected to pay for their keep'. 'he applied to the state for support'. 'he could no longer earn his own livelihood'
easy money;income obtained with a minimum of effort
share;an asset belonging to or due to or contributed by an individual person or group. 'he wanted his share in cash'
coinage;coins collectively
open end credit;a consumer credit line that can be used up to a certain limit or paid down at any time
earnings;the excess of revenues over outlays in a given period of time
pork barrel;a legislative appropriation designed to ingratiate legislators with their constituents
intangible asset;an asset that is saleable though not material or physical
kale;informal terms for money
paper money;currency issued by a government or central bank and consisting of printed paper that can circulate as a substitute for specie
profit;the excess of revenues over outlays in a given period of time
coverage;promise of reimbursement in the case of loss. paid to people or companies so concerned about hazards that they have made prepayments to an insurance company
backlog;something kept back or saved for future use or a special purpose
taxation;government income due to taxation
bet;the money risked on a gamble
contribution;an amount of money contributed. 'he expected his contribution to be repaid with interest'
traveler s check;a letter of credit issued by a bank or express company that is payable on presentation to any correspondent of the issuer
paper gold;reserve assets in the international money fund. designed to supplement reserves of gold and convertible currencies used to maintain stability in the foreign exchange market
payoff;the income arising from land or other property. 'the average return was about 5%'
equity credit line;a loan secured by equity value in the borrower's home
crown jewel;the most desirable assets of a corporation. 'their crown jewels figured prominently in the takeover attempt'
health maintenance organization;group insurance that entitles members to services of participating hospitals and clinics and physicians
lucre;the excess of revenues over outlays in a given period of time
windfall profit;profit that occurs unexpectedly as a consequence of some event not controlled by those who profit from it
funding;financial resources provided to make some project possible. 'the foundation provided support for the experiment'
capital;assets available for use in the production of further assets
change;the balance of money received when the amount you tender is greater than the amount due. 'i paid with a twenty and pocketed the change'
operating capital;capital available for the operations of a firm (e.g. manufacturing or transportation) as distinct from financial transactions and long-term improvements
treasury stock;stock that has been bought back by the issuing corporation and is available for retirement or resale. it is issued but not outstanding. it cannot vote and pays no dividends
pool;the combined stakes of the betters
cent;a coin worth one-hundredth of the value of the basic unit
small change;a trifling sum of money
monetary resource;assets in the form of money
shekels;informal terms for money
value;the amount (of money or goods or services) that is considered to be a fair equivalent for something else. 'he tried to estimate the value of the produce at normal prices'
dollar;a us coin worth one dollar. 'the dollar coin has never been popular in the united states'
quarter;a us coin worth one fourth of a dollar. 'he fed four quarters into the slot machine'
ordinary shares;stock other than preferred stock
coin;a metal piece (usually a disc) used as money
unearned revenue;(taxes) personal income that you did not earn (e.g., dividends or interest or rent income)
automobile insurance;insurance against loss due to traffic accidents
banker s check;a letter of credit issued by a bank or express company that is payable on presentation to any correspondent of the issuer
mineral resources;natural resources in the form of minerals
shiplaster;paper money of little value issued on insufficient security
piece;a share of something. 'a slice of the company's revenue'
kitty;the cumulative stake in a game (such as poker)
hoarded wealth;accumulated wealth in the form of money or jewels etc.. 'the pirates hid their treasure on a small island in the west indies'
winnings;something won (especially money)
margin;(corporate finance) net sales minus the cost of goods and services sold
reserve fund;funds taken out of earnings to provide for anticipated future payments
government note;a piece of paper money (especially one issued by a central bank). 'he peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes'
fiver;a us bill worth 5 dollars
privy purse;allowance for a monarch's personal expenses
money;the official currency issued by a government or national bank. 'he changed his money into francs'
economic value;the amount (of money or goods or services) that is considered to be a fair equivalent for something else. 'he tried to estimate the value of the produce at normal prices'
tax base;collective value of taxable assets
tontine;a form of life insurance whereby on the death or default of a participant his share is distributed to the remaining members
dividend;that part of the earnings of a corporation that is distributed to its shareholders. usually paid quarterly
five dollar bill;a us bill worth 5 dollars
valuable;something of value. 'all our valuables were stolen'
wampum;small beads made from polished shells and formerly used as money by native americans
ante;(in poker) the initial contribution that each player makes to the pot
allowance;a reserve fund created by a charge against profits in order to provide for changes in the value of a company's assets
open account;credit extended by a business to a customer
fund;a reserve of money set aside for some purpose
investment funds;money that is invested with an expectation of profit
five spot;a us bill worth 5 dollars
creature comforts;things that make you comfortable and at ease. 'all the comforts of home'
fivepence;a five-cent piece
undivided right;the interest in property owned by tenants whereby each tenant has an equal right to enjoy the entire property
threepence;(brit) former cupronickel coin of uk equal to three pennies
one dollar bill;(united states) a piece of paper money worth one dollar
valuation reserve;a reserve fund created by a charge against profits in order to provide for changes in the value of a company's assets
tanner;a small british coin worth six pennies. not minted since 1970
twopence;a former uk silver coin. uk bronze decimal coin worth two pennies
credit account;credit extended by a business to a customer
overdraft credit;credit provided by a bank in honoring a customer's overdrafts
louis d or;a former french gold coin
sterling;british money. especially the pound sterling as the basic monetary unit of the uk
amenities;things that make you comfortable and at ease. 'all the comforts of home'
traveller s letter of credit;a letter of credit given to a traveler
half eagle;a former gold coin in us worth 5 dollars
escheat;a reversion to the state (as the ultimate owner of property) in the absence of legal heirs
change;coins of small denomination regarded collectively. 'he had a pocketful of change'
percentage;an asset belonging to or due to or contributed by an individual person or group. 'he wanted his share in cash'
goodwill;(accounting) an intangible asset valued according to the advantage or reputation a business has acquired (over and above its tangible assets)
possession;anything owned or possessed
bank;the funds held by a gambling house or the dealer in some gambling games. 'he tried to break the bank at monte carlo'
dough;informal terms for money
equity;the difference between the market value of a property and the claims held against it
budget;a sum of money allocated for a particular purpose. 'the laboratory runs on a budget of a million a year'
win;something won (especially money)
sum;a quantity of money. 'he borrowed a large sum'. 'the amount he had in cash was insufficient'
take;the income arising from land or other property. 'the average return was about 5%'
food bank;a place where food is contributed and made available to those in need. 'they set up a food bank for the flood victims'
speculation;an investment that is very risky but could yield great profits. 'he knew the stock was a speculation when he bought it'
riches;an abundance of material possessions and resources
farthing;a former british bronze coin worth a quarter of a penny
stock;a supply of something available for future use. 'he brought back a large store of cuban cigars'
fiat money;money that the government declares to be legal tender although it cannot be converted into standard specie
hmo;group insurance that entitles members to services of participating hospitals and clinics and physicians
government issue;supplies (as food or clothing or ammunition) issued by the government
keep;the financial means whereby one lives. 'each child was expected to pay for their keep'. 'he applied to the state for support'. 'he could no longer earn his own livelihood'
moolah;informal terms for money
nest egg;a fund of money put by as a reserve
special drawing rights;reserve assets in the international money fund. designed to supplement reserves of gold and convertible currencies used to maintain stability in the foreign exchange market
way;a portion of something divided into shares: 'the split the loot three ways'
penny;a coin worth one-hundredth of the value of the basic unit
folding money;currency issued by a government or central bank and consisting of printed paper that can circulate as a substitute for specie
conveniences;things that make you comfortable and at ease. 'all the comforts of home'
government revenue;income available to the government
tax income;government income due to taxation
pork;a legislative appropriation designed to ingratiate legislators with their constituents
dispensation;a share that has been dispensed or distributed
assurance;a british term for some kinds of insurance
seed stock;a supply of seeds (or tubers) reserved for planting
export credit;a credit opened by an importer with a bank in an exporter's country to finance an export operation
return;the income arising from land or other property. 'the average return was about 5%'
tontine insurance;a form of life insurance whereby on the death or default of a participant his share is distributed to the remaining members
allocation;a share set aside for a specific purpose
import credit;credit opened by an importer at a bank in his own country upon which an exporter may draw
mintage;coins collectively
undivided interest;the interest in property owned by tenants whereby each tenant has an equal right to enjoy the entire property
income;the financial gain (earned or unearned) accruing over a given period of time
authorized stock;the maximum number of shares authorized under the the terms of a corporations articles of incorporation
eagle;a former gold coin in us worth 10 dollars
matching funds;funds that will be supplied in an amount matching the funds available from other sources
protection;defense against financial failure. 'his pension gave him security in his old age'. 'insurance provided protection against loss of wages due to illness'
seed grain;good quality seeds (as kernels of corn) that are reserved for planting
investment;money that is invested with an expectation of profit
unearned income;(taxes) personal income that you did not earn (e.g., dividends or interest or rent income)
cash advance;an amount paid before it is earned
change;money received in return for its equivalent in a larger denomination or a different currency. 'he got change for a twenty and used it to pay the taxi driver'
pin money;cash for day-to-day spending on incidental expenses
halfpenny;an english coin worth half a penny
food stamp;government-issued stamps used in exchange for food
backing;financial resources provided to make some project possible. 'the foundation provided support for the experiment'
currency;the metal or paper medium of exchange that is presently used
blood bank;a place for storing whole blood or blood plasma. 'the red cross created a blood bank for emergencies'
real;an old small silver spanish coin
pledge;a deposit of personal property as security for a debt. 'his saxophone was in pledge'
poverty line;a level of personal income defining the state of poverty
gross;the entire amount of income before any deductions are made
purse;a sum of money offered as a prize. 'the purse barely covered the winner's expenses'
split;a promised or claimed share of loot or money. 'he demanded his split before they disbanded'
profits;something won (especially money)
medium of exchange;anything that is generally accepted as a standard of value and a measure of wealth
principal;capital as contrasted with the income derived from it
traveler s letter of credit;a letter of credit given to a traveler
slice;a share of something. 'a slice of the company's revenue'
nickel;a us coin worth one twentieth of a dollar
purse;a sum of money spoken of as the contents of a money purse. 'he made the contribution out of his own purse'. 'he and his wife shared a common purse'
intangible;an asset that is saleable though not material or physical
medicaid funds;public funds used to pay for medicaid
living;the financial means whereby one lives. 'each child was expected to pay for their keep'. 'he applied to the state for support'. 'he could no longer earn his own livelihood'
dinero;informal terms for money
gross revenue;income (at invoice values) received for goods and services over some given period of time
metal money;coins collectively
finances;assets in the form of money
figure;an amount of money expressed numerically. 'a figure of 17 was suggested'
life insurance;insurance paid to named beneficiaries when the insured person dies. 'in england they call life insurance life assurance'
stock dividend;a dividend paid in stock rather than in cash
bursary;the treasury of a public institution or religious order
bezant;a gold coin of the byzantine empire. widely circulated in europe in the middle ages
till;a treasury for government funds
box office;total admission receipts for an entertainment
cheap money;credit available at low rates of interest
paper currency;currency issued by a government or central bank and consisting of printed paper that can circulate as a substitute for specie
personal income;the income received by a single individual
bank deposit;money deposited in a bank
silver certificate;formerly a bank note issued by the us treasury and redeemable in silver
money;the most common medium of exchange. functions as legal tender. 'we tried to collect the money he owed us'
bank note;a piece of paper money (especially one issued by a central bank). 'he peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes'
stash;a secret store of valuables or money
twenty dollar bill;a us bill worth 20 dollars
demand deposit;a bank deposit from which withdrawals can be made without notice
letter of credit;a document issued by a bank that guarantees the payment of a customer's draft. substitutes the bank's credit for the customer's credit
silver;coins made of silver
lien;the right to take another's property if an obligation is not discharged
rent;the return derived from cultivated land in excess of that derived from the poorest land cultivated under similar conditions
comforts;things that make you comfortable and at ease. 'all the comforts of home'
takings;the income arising from land or other property. 'the average return was about 5%'
dollar;(united states) a piece of paper money worth one dollar
pocket money;cash for day-to-day spending on incidental expenses
operating budget;a budget for current expenses as distinct from financial transactions or permanent improvements
part;an asset belonging to or due to or contributed by an individual person or group. 'he wanted his share in cash'
reserve account;funds taken out of earnings to provide for anticipated future payments
treasure;accumulated wealth in the form of money or jewels etc.. 'the pirates hid their treasure on a small island in the west indies'
reallocation;a share that has been allocated again
accounts receivable;a creditor's accounts of money owed to him. normally arise from the sale of products or services
bullion;a mass of precious metal (usually in the form of bars or ingots)
wealth;an abundance of material possessions and resources
portion;an asset belonging to or due to or contributed by an individual person or group. 'he wanted his share in cash'
roll;a roll of currency notes (often taken as the resources of a person or business etc.). 'he shot his roll on a bob-tailed nag'
common shares;stock other than preferred stock
wampumpeag;used as currency in massachusetts
credit line;the maximum credit that a customer is allowed
cut;a share of the profits. 'everyone got a cut of the earnings'
gate;total admission receipts at a sports event
bread;informal terms for money
cleanup;(informal) a very large profit
right;(frequently plural) the interest possessed by law or custom in some intangible thing: 'mineral rights'. 'film rights'
fortune;a large amount of wealth or prosperity
bawbee;an old scottish coin of little value
sustenance;the financial means whereby one lives. 'each child was expected to pay for their keep'. 'he applied to the state for support'. 'he could no longer earn his own livelihood'
trove;treasure of unknown ownership found hidden (usually in the earth)
payroll;the total amount of money paid in wages. 'the company had a large payroll'
no par stock;stock with no par value specified kin the corporate charter or on the stock certificate
reserve asset;capital held back from investment in order to meet probable or possible demands
cache;a secret store of valuables or money
credit card;a card (usually plastic) that assures a seller that the person using it has a satisfactory credit rating and that the issuer will see to it that the seller receives payment for the merchandise delivered
charge card;a card (usually plastic) that assures a seller that the person using it has a satisfactory credit rating and that the issuer will see to it that the seller receives payment for the merchandise delivered
financial gain;the amount of monetary gain
gross sales;income (at invoice values) received for goods and services over some given period of time
gelt;informal terms for money
m2;a measure of the money supply. m1 plus net time deposits (other than large certificates of deposit)
coinsurance;insurance issued jointly by two or more underwriters
tender;something used as an official medium of payment
fractional currency;paper currency in denominations less than the basic monetary unit
divvy;(british) short for dividend. especially one paid by a cooperative society
dollar bill;(united states) a piece of paper money worth one dollar
credit;money available for a client to borrow
susan b anthony dollar;a us coin worth one dollar
bank bill;a piece of paper money (especially one issued by a central bank). 'he peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes'
eightpence;a coin worth eight pennies
treasure trove;treasure of unknown ownership found hidden (usually in the earth)
clam;(united states) a piece of paper money worth one dollar
pool;any communal combination of funds. 'everyone contributed to the pool'
bankroll;a roll of currency notes (often taken as the resources of a person or business etc.). 'he shot his roll on a bob-tailed nag'
venture capital;wealth available for investment in new or speculative enterprises
hole card;any asset that is concealed until it can be used advantageously
tuppence;a former uk silver coin. uk bronze decimal coin worth two pennies
life assurance;insurance paid to named beneficiaries when the insured person dies. 'in england they call life insurance life assurance'
watered stock;stock representing ownership of overvalued assets. stock of a corporation whose total worth is less than its invested capital
stores;a store or supply (especially of food or clothing or arms)
control stock;shares owned by shareholders who have a controlling interest
sinking fund;a fund accumulated regularly in a separate account and used to redeem debt securities
deposit;money deposited in a bank
car insurance;insurance against loss due to traffic accidents
net profit;the excess of revenues over outlays in a given period of time
ha penny;an english coin worth half a penny
bezzant;a gold coin of the byzantine empire. widely circulated in europe in the middle ages
receivables;money that you currently expect to receive from notes or accounts
fee tail;a fee limited to a particular line of heirs. they are not free to sell it or give it away
corpus;capital as contrasted with the income derived from it
subtreasury;a subordinate treasury or place of deposit
note;a piece of paper money (especially one issued by a central bank). 'he peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes'
fisc;a royal treasury
unearned income;(accounting) income received but not yet earned (usually considered a current liability on a company's balance sheet)
health insurance;insurance against loss due to ill health
public treasury;a treasury for government funds
deductible;an amount that can be deducted (especially for the purposes of calculating income tax)
profits;the excess of revenues over outlays in a given period of time
new penny;a coin used in great britain since 1971 worth one hundredth of a pound
float;the number of shares outstanding and available for trading by the public
spending money;cash for day-to-day spending on incidental expenses
fire insurance;insurance against loss due to fire
ration;a fixed portion alloted (especially in times of scarcity)
risk capital;wealth available for investment in new or speculative enterprises
receipts;the entire amount of income before any deductions are made
personal credit line;the maximum credit that a customer is allowed
self insurance;insuring oneself by setting aside money to cover possible losses rather than by purchasing an insurance policy
common stock;stock other than preferred stock
hoard;a secret store of valuables or money
cash;money in the form of bills or coins
endowment fund;the capital that provides income for an institution
financial support;financial resources provided to make some project possible. 'the foundation provided support for the experiment'
mortgage;a conditional conveyance of property as security for the repayment of a loan
gold;coins made of gold
fee;an interest in land capable of being inherited
revolving credit;a consumer credit line that can be used up to a certain limit or paid down at any time
cabbage;informal terms for money
security interest;any interest in a property that secures the payment of an obligation
blue chip stock;a common stock of a nationally known company whose value and dividends are reliable. typically have high price and low yield
crown;an english coin worth 5 shillings
valuation account;a reserve fund created by a charge against profits in order to provide for changes in the value of a company's assets
endowment;the capital that provides income for an institution
fee simple;a fee without limitation to any class of heirs. the can sell it or give it away
gamble;money that is risked for possible monetary gain
stake;the money risked on a gamble
pawn;an article deposited as security
extra dividend;a dividend paid in addition to the regular dividend
dole;a share of money or food or clothing that has been charitably given
natural resource;resources (actual and potential) supplied by nature
authorized shares;the maximum number of shares authorized under the the terms of a corporations articles of incorporation
gold;great wealth. 'whilst that for which all virtue now is sold, and almost every vice--almighty gold'--ben jonson
jackpot;the cumulative stake in a game (such as poker)
two dollar bill;a us bill worth 2 dollars
revenue;the entire amount of income before any deductions are made
military issue;supplies (as food or clothing or ammunition) issued by the government
cummulative preferred;preferred stock whose dividends if omitted accumulate until paid out
internal revenue;government revenue from domestic sources (excluding customs)
traveller s check;a letter of credit issued by a bank or express company that is payable on presentation to any correspondent of the issuer
voting stock;shares in a corporation that entitle the shareholder to voting and proxy rights
preference shares;stock whose holders are guaranteed priority in the payment of dividends
appropriation;money set aside (as by a legislature) for a specific purpose
cash in hand;assets in the form of money
no par value stock;stock with no par value specified kin the corporate charter or on the stock certificate
vested interest;an interest in which there is a fixed right to present or future enjoyment
working capital;assets available for use in the production of further assets
capital gain;the amount by which the selling price of an asset exceeds the purchase price
stock of record;stock held by stockholders of record on a given date
asset;"anything of material value or usefulness"
sales;income (at invoice values) received for goods and services over some given period of time
revolving charge account;a charge account that does not have to be paid to zero balance
slush fund;a fund for buying votes or bribing public officials
fifty cent piece;a us coin worth half of a dollar
advance;an amount paid before it is earned
loot;informal terms for money
commercial letter of credit;a letter of credit given to a business concern for commercial purposes
chickenfeed;a trifling sum of money
second mortgage;a mortgage that is subordinate to a first mortgage
supplies;a store or supply (especially of food or clothing or arms)
personal line of credit;the maximum credit that a customer is allowed
principal sum;capital as contrasted with the income derived from it
terminable interest;an interest in property that terminates under specific conditions
bank card;a card (usually plastic) that assures a seller that the person using it has a satisfactory credit rating and that the issuer will see to it that the seller receives payment for the merchandise delivered
legal tender;something used as an official medium of payment
reinsurance;sharing the risk by insurance companies. part or all of the insurer's risk is assumed by other companies in return for part of the premium paid by the insured. 'reinsurance enables a client to get coverage that would be too great for any one company to assume'
sixpence;a small british coin worth six pennies. not minted since 1970
hedging;taking two positions that will offset each other if prices change and so limiting financial risk
provisions;a store or supply (especially of food or clothing or arms)
monetary fund;a reserve of money set aside for some purpose
markup;the amount added to the cost to determine the asking price
amount of money;a quantity of money. 'he borrowed a large sum'. 'the amount he had in cash was insufficient'
war chest;a fund accumulated to finance a war (or a political campaign)
half crown;an english coin worth half a crown
allowance;an amount allowed or granted (as during a given period): 'travel allowance'. 'my weekly allowance of two eggs'. 'a child's allowance should not be too generous'
consumer credit;a line of credit extended for personal or household use
land resources;natural resources in the form or arable land
precious metal;any of the less common and valuable metals often used to make coins or jewelry
line of credit;the maximum credit that a customer is allowed
kitty;the combined stakes of the betters
first mortgage;a mortgage that has priority over all mortgages and liens except those imposed by law
equalizing dividend;a dividend paid to compensate shareholders for losses resulting from a change in the dividend schedule
piece of eight;an old silver spanish coin. worth 8 reales
grubstake;funds advanced to a prospector or to someone starting a business in return for a share of the profits
uneraned revenue;(accounting) income received but not yet earned (usually considered a current liability on a company's balance sheet)
bank line;the maximum credit that a customer is allowed
interest;a right or legal share of something. a financial involvement with something. 'they have interests all over the world'. 'a stake in the company's future'
savings;a fund of money put by as a reserve
buck;(united states) a piece of paper money worth one dollar
smart money;money bet or invested by experienced gamblers or investors (especially if they have inside information)
specie;coins collectively
revenue;government income due to taxation
lucre;informal terms for money
funds;assets in the form of money
byzant;a gold coin of the byzantine empire. widely circulated in europe in the middle ages
preferred shares;stock whose holders are guaranteed priority in the payment of dividends
rake off;a percentage (of winnings or loot or profit) taken by an operator or gangster
hedge;taking two positions that will offset each other if prices change and so limiting financial risk
exchequer;the funds of a government or institution or individual
