price war;intense competition in which competitors cut retail prices to gain business
human relationship;"('relationship' is often used where 'relation' would serve (as in 'the relationship between inflation and unemployment') preferred usage of 'relationship' is for human relations or states of relatedness. 'the relationship between mothers and children'"
affiliation;a social or business relationship: 'a valuable financial affiliation'. 'he was sorry he had to sever his ties with other members of the team'. 'many close associations with england'
familiarity;"personal knowledge or information about someone or something"
executor heir relation;the responsibility of an executor (or administrator) of an estate to act in the best interests of the heir
business relationship;a formal contractual relationship established to provide for regular banking or brokerage or business services. 'he asked to see the executive who handled his account'
female bonding;the formation of a close personal relationship between women
lawyer client relation;the responsibility of a lawyer to act in the best interests of the client
matrilineage;line of descent traced through the maternal side of the family
dormant account;a savings account showing no activity (other than posting interest) for some specified period. 'the dormant account reverted to the state under escheat laws'
conversance;"personal knowledge or information about someone or something"
thraldom;the state of being under the control of another person
company;the state of being with someone. 'he missed their company'. 'he enjoyed the society of his friends'
assimilation;the state of being assimilated
iron cage;a cage from which there is no escape
confidence;a trustful relationship. 'he took me into his confidence'. 'he betrayed their trust'
cash account;an account with a securities brokerage whose transactions are settled on a cash basis
freemasonry;a natural or instinctive fellowship between people of similar interests: 'he enjoyed the freemasonry of the press'
account;a formal contractual relationship established to provide for regular banking or brokerage or business services. 'he asked to see the executive who handled his account'
repression;a state of forcible subjugation. 'the repression of christian sects'
brokerage account;a fund that a customer has entrusted to a securities brokerage. 'you can't get a brokerage account unless you have __20,000'
legal representation;personal representation that has legal status. 'an person who has been declared incompetent should have legal representation'
teacher student relation;the academic relation between teachers and their students
blood kinship;related by blood
acquaintance;a relationship less intimate than friendship
giro account;(british) an account at a post office that can be used in similar ways to an account at a bank
acquaintance;"personal knowledge or information about someone or something"
vassalage;the state of a serf
sisterhood;the kinship relation between a female offspring and the siblings
incarceration;the state of being imprisoned. 'he was held in captivity until he died'. 'the imprisonment of captured soldiers'. 'his ignominious incarceration in the local jail'. 'he practiced the immurement of his enemies in the castle dungeon'
hold;a state of confinement (usually for a short time. 'the prisoner is on hold'. 'he is in the custody of police')
internment;confinement during wartime
oppression;kept down by unjust use of force or authority: 'the tyrant's oppression of the people'
restraint;the state of being constrained
unilateral descent;line of descent traced through one side of the family
bonding;a close personal relationship that forms between people (as between husband and wife or parent and child)
trust;a trustful relationship. 'he took me into his confidence'. 'he betrayed their trust'
relations;"mutual dealings or connections or communications among persons or groups"
family relationship;"state of relatedness or connection by blood or marriage or adoption"
maternity;the kinship relation between an offspring and the mother
lineage;the kinship relation between an individual and the individual's progenitors
relationship;"state of relatedness or connection by blood or marriage or adoption"
thralldom;the state of being under the control of another person
patrilineage;line of descent traced through the paternal side of the family
brotherhood;the kinship relation between a male offspring and the siblings
slavery;the state of being under the control of another person
intrigue;a clandestine love affair
kinship;"state of relatedness or connection by blood or marriage or adoption"
fatherhood;the kinship relation between an offspring and the father
bondage;the state of being under the control of another person
legal relation;a professional relation that is regulated by law (as between a lawyer and a client)
good fellowship;the state of being with someone. 'he missed their company'. 'he enjoyed the society of his friends'
acquaintanceship;a relationship less intimate than friendship
captivity;the state of being imprisoned. 'he was held in captivity until he died'. 'the imprisonment of captured soldiers'. 'his ignominious incarceration in the local jail'. 'he practiced the immurement of his enemies in the castle dungeon'
imprisonment;the state of being imprisoned. 'he was held in captivity until he died'. 'the imprisonment of captured soldiers'. 'his ignominious incarceration in the local jail'. 'he practiced the immurement of his enemies in the castle dungeon'
academic relation;a professional relation between instructors and those they instruct
maternal infant bonding;the attachment that forms between an infant and its mother beginning at birth. 'maternal-infant bonding influences the child's psychological and physical development'
confinement;the state of being confined. 'he was held in solitary confinement'
relationship;"('relationship' is often used where 'relation' would serve (as in 'the relationship between inflation and unemployment') preferred usage of 'relationship' is for human relations or states of relatedness. 'the relationship between mothers and children'"
margin account;an account with a securities brokerage in which the broker extends credit
amour;a usually secretive or illicit sexual relationship
cage;something that restricts freedom as a cage restricts movement
personal relationship;a relation between persons
involvement;a usually secretive or illicit sexual relationship
medical relation;the professional relation between a health care professional and a patient
love affair;a relationship between two lovers
partner relation;the responsibility of partners to act in one another's best interests
dealings;"mutual dealings or connections or communications among persons or groups"
fiduciary relation;the legal relation that exists when one person justifiably places reliance on another whose aid or protection is sought in some matter
attorney client relation;the responsibility of a lawyer to act in the best interests of the client
conversancy;"personal knowledge or information about someone or something"
savings account;a bank account that accumulates interest
communication;something that is communicated between people or groups
phylogenetic relation;(biology) state of relationship between organisms or groups of organisms resulting in resemblance in structure or structural parts: 'in anatomical structure prehistoric man shows close affinity with modern humans'
interpersonal chemistry;"the way two individuals relate to each other. 'their chemistry was wrong from the beginning -- they hated each other'"
short account;a brokerage account of someone who sells short (sells securities he does not own)
anaclisis;(psychoanalysis) relationship marked by strong dependence on others. especially a libidinal attachment to e.g. a parental figure
disagreement;"a conflict of people's opinions or actions or characters"a conflict of people's opinions or actions or characters
custody;a state of confinement (usually for a short time. 'the prisoner is on hold'. 'he is in the custody of police')
director stockholder relation;the responsibility of corporate directors to act in the best interests of stockholders
parentage;the kinship relation of an offspring to the parents
personal relation;a relation between persons
captivity;the state of being a slave. 'so every bondman in his own hand bears the power to cancel his captivity'--shakespeare
fellowship;the state of being with someone. 'he missed their company'. 'he enjoyed the society of his friends'
filiation;the kinship relation between an individual and the individual's progenitors
serfhood;the state of a serf
bilateral descent;line of descent traced through both the maternal and paternal sides of the family
agency;"the state of serving as an official and authorized delegate or agent"
durance;imprisonment (especially for a long time)
trustee beneficiary relation;the responsibility of a trustee to act in the best interests of the beneficiary
tie up;a social or business relationship: 'a valuable financial affiliation'. 'he was sorry he had to sever his ties with other members of the team'. 'many close associations with england'
price competition;intense competition in which competitors cut retail prices to gain business
immurement;the state of being imprisoned. 'he was held in captivity until he died'. 'the imprisonment of captured soldiers'. 'his ignominious incarceration in the local jail'. 'he practiced the immurement of his enemies in the castle dungeon'
receiver creditor relation;the responsibility of receiver or trustee in bankruptcy to act in the best interests of the creditor
checking account;a bank account against which the depositor can drawn checks payable on demand
passbook savings account;a savings account in which deposits and withdrawals are recorded in the depositor's passbook
line of descent;the kinship relation between an individual and the individual's progenitors
representation;"the state of serving as an official and authorized delegate or agent"
motherhood;the kinship relation between an offspring and the mother
affinity;(biology) state of relationship between organisms or groups of organisms resulting in resemblance in structure or structural parts: 'in anatomical structure prehistoric man shows close affinity with modern humans'
relationship;"a state of connectedness between people (especially an emotional connection). 'he didn't want his wife to know of the relationship'"
association;a social or business relationship: 'a valuable financial affiliation'. 'he was sorry he had to sever his ties with other members of the team'. 'many close associations with england'
time deposit account;a savings account in which the deposit is held for a fixed term or in which withdrawals can be made only after giving notice
social relation;a relation between living organisms. esp between people
society;the state of being with someone. 'he missed their company'. 'he enjoyed the society of his friends'
paternity;the kinship relation between an offspring and the father
bank depositor relation;the responsibility of a bank to act in the best interests of the depositors
political relation;"social relations involving authority or power"
affinity;kinship by marriage or adoption. not a blood relationship
steprelationship;a family relationship by virtue of remarriage
male bonding;the formation of a close personal relationship between men. 'the rituals known as male bonding do not necessarily involve drinking beer together'
sistership;the kinship relation between a female offspring and the siblings
detention;a state of confinement (usually for a short time. 'the prisoner is on hold'. 'he is in the custody of police')
chemistry;"the way two individuals relate to each other. 'their chemistry was wrong from the beginning -- they hated each other'"
serfdom;the state of a serf
membership;the state of being a member
clientage;relation of a client to a patron
friendship;the state of being friends
comradeship;the state of being with someone. 'he missed their company'. 'he enjoyed the society of his friends'
companionship;the state of being with someone. 'he missed their company'. 'he enjoyed the society of his friends'
blood brotherhood;the friendship characteristic of blood brothers
affair;a usually secretive or illicit sexual relationship
kinship by marriage;kinship by marriage or adoption. not a blood relationship
cognation;related by blood
sexual relationship;a relationship involving sexual intimacy
subjection;forced submission to control by others
dissension;"a conflict of people's opinions or actions or characters"a conflict of people's opinions or actions or characters
affaire;a usually secretive or illicit sexual relationship
free agency;(sports) the state of a professional athlete who is free to negotiate a contract to play for any team
custodial account;a brokerage firm account that parents have created for a minor
professional relation;"the relation that exists when one person requests and is granted professional help from a qualified source"
consanguinity;related by blood
relationship;"a state involving mutual dealings between people or parties or countries"
business relation;"a relation between different business enterprises"
conservator ward relation;the responsibility of a conservator to act in the best interests of the ward
delegacy;"the state of serving as an official and authorized delegate or agent"
romance;a relationship between two lovers
intimacy;a usually secretive or illicit sexual relationship
doctor patient relation;the responsibility of a physician to act in the best interests of the patient
nurse patient relation;the responsibility of a nurse to act in the best interests of the patient
enation;line of descent traced through the maternal side of the family
liaison;a usually secretive or illicit sexual relationship
bank account;a fund that a customer has entrusted to a bank and from which they can make withdrawals. 'he moved his bank account to a new bank'
confidential adviser advisee relation;the responsibility of a confidential adviser to act in the best interest of the advisee
agnation;line of descent traced through the paternal side of the family
servitude;state of subjection to an owner or master or forced labor imposed as punishment: 'penal servitude'
friendly relationship;the state of being friends
disunity;lack of unity (usually resulting from dissension)
competition;a business relation in which two parties compete to gain customers. 'business competition can be fiendish at times'
descent;the kinship relation between an individual and the individual's progenitors
thrall;the state of being under the control of another person
cognation;line of descent traced through the maternal side of the family
constraint;the state of being constrained
birth;the kinship relation of an offspring to the parents
tie;a social or business relationship: 'a valuable financial affiliation'. 'he was sorry he had to sever his ties with other members of the team'. 'many close associations with england'
politics;"social relations involving authority or power"
enslavement;the state of being a slave. 'so every bondman in his own hand bears the power to cancel his captivity'--shakespeare
peonage;the condition of a peon
subjugation;forced submission to control by others
