inside clinch;a clinch with the end of the line inside the loop
quadrate;a cubelike object
halo;a toroidal shape. 'a ring of ships in the harbor'. 'a halo of smoke'
skyline;the line at which the sky and earth appear to meet
crow s feet;a wrinkle at the outer corner of your eyes
globule;a small globe or ball
head;the tip of an abscess (where the pus accumulates)
outside clinch;a clinch with the end of the line outside the loop
fairy ring;a ring of fungi marking the periphery of the perennial underground growth of the mycelium
gyre;a round shape formed by a series of concentric circles
barrel;a bulging cylindrical shape. hollow with flat ends
aclinic line;an imaginary line paralleling the equator where a magnetic needle has no dip
approach;the final path followed by an aircraft as it is landing
deep space;"any region in space outside the solar system"
apojove;apoapsis in orbit around jupiter
timberline;line marking the upper limit of tree growth in mountains or northern latitudes
international date line;an imaginary line on the surface of the earth following (approximately) the 180th meridian
cleft;a split or indentation in something (as the palate or chin)
topographic point;a point located with respect to surface features of some region. 'this is a nice place for a picnic'
knob;any thickened enlargement
main line;the principal route of a transportation system
curlicue;a round shape formed by a series of concentric circles
intergalactic space;"the space between galaxies. 'the milky way travels through intergalactic space'"
interplanetary space;"the part of outer space within the solar system"
running noose;a loop formed in a cord or rope by means of a slipknot. it binds tighter as the cord or rope is pulled
ovoid;an egg-shaped object
semi major axis;one-half the major axis of an ellipse. the distance from the center of an ellipse to one end
fissure;a long narrow depression in a surface
cube;a three-dimensional shape with six square or rectangular sides
cube;a hexahedron with six equal squares as faces
wrinkle;a slight depression in the smoothness of a surface. 'his face has many wrinkles'
crinkle;a slight depression in the smoothness of a surface. 'his face has many wrinkles'
isogone;an imaginary line connecting points on the earth's surface where the magnetic declination is the same
plimsoll mark;waterlines to show the level the water should reach when the ship is properly loaded
visible horizon;the line at which the sky and earth appear to meet
half track;tread goes around only rear wheels
parallelopipedon;a prism whose bases are parallelograms
verticil;a whorl of leaves growing around a stem
region;the extended spatial location of something. 'the farming regions of france'. 'religions in all parts of the world'. 'regions of outer space'
nadir;the point below the observer that is directly opposite the zenith on the imaginary sphere against which celestial bodies appear to be projected
gibbosity;something that protrudes
isarithm;a line drawn on a map connecting points having the same numerical value of some variable
lather;the froth produced by soaps or detergents
recession;a small concavity
laugh line;a wrinkle at the outer corner of your eyes
bearing;the direction or path along which something moves or along which it lies
hemline;the line formed by the lower edge of a skirt or coat
hipline;the line formed by measuring the hip at its greatest part
vertical circle;a great circle on the celestial sphere passing through the zenith and perpendicular to the horizon
crest;the top line of a hill, mountain, or wave
line of march;the route along which a column advances
line of longitude;an imaginary great circle on the surface of the earth passing through the north and south poles at right angles to the equator. 'all points on the same meridian have the same longitude'
feeder line;a branch off of a main transportation line (especially an airline)
rut;a groove or furrow (especially one in soft earth caused by wheels)
line of sight;a straight line along which an observer looks
z axis;the third axis in a 3-dimensional coordinate system
crosscut;a diagonal path
spur;any pointed projection
crease;a slight depression in the smoothness of a surface. 'his face has many wrinkles'
roller;a cylinder that revolves
polar circle;a line of latitude at the north or south poles
ray;(mathematics) a straight line extending from a point
spheroid;a shape that is generated by rotating an ellipse around one of its axes. 'it looked like a sphere but on closer examination i saw it was really a spheroid'
ring;a toroidal shape. 'a ring of ships in the harbor'. 'a halo of smoke'
isogonic line;an imaginary line connecting points on the earth's surface where the magnetic declination is the same
round;the course along which communications spread. 'the story is going the rounds in washington'
orbital plane;(astronomy) the plane on which a body is orbiting
continental divide;the watershed of a continent
cranny;a long narrow depression in a surface
north celestial pole;the celestial pole above the northern hemisphere. near polaris
slit;a depression scratched or carved into a surface
tropic of capricorn;a line of latitude about 23 degrees south of the equator
line of destiny;a crease on the palm. palmists say it indicates how successful you will be
glide slope;the final path followed by an aircraft as it is landing
soapsuds;the froth produced by soaps or detergents
silk road;an ancient trade route between china and the mediterranean (4,000 miles). followed by marco polo in the 13th century to reach cathay
rhumb line;a line on a sphere that cuts all meridians at the same angle. the path taken by a ship or plane that maintains a constant compass direction
isobar;an isogram connecting points having equal barometric pressure at a given time
lunar latitude;an imaginary line around the moon parallel to its equator
slip noose;a loop formed in a cord or rope by means of a slipknot. it binds tighter as the cord or rope is pulled
dip;a depression in an otherwise level surface. 'there was a dip in the road'
wart;any small rounded protuberance (as on certain plants or animals)
air lane;a designated route followed by airplanes in flying from one airport to another
element of a cone;a straight line joining the apex and a point on the base
drop;a shape that is small and round. 'he studied the shapes of low-viscosity drops'. 'beads of sweat on his forehead'
meridian;an imaginary great circle on the surface of the earth passing through the north and south poles at right angles to the equator. 'all points on the same meridian have the same longitude'
intervertebral disc;a fibrocartilaginous disc between all of the vertebrae of the spinal column (except between the first two)
caput;a headlike protuberance on an organ or structure. 'the caput humeri is the head of the humerus which fits into a cavity in the scapula'
platonic solid;any one of five solids whose faces are congruent regular polygons and whose polyhedral angles are all congruent
ball;any object with a spherical shape. 'a ball of fire'
corrugation;a ridge on a corrugated surface
cusp;small elevation on the grinding surface of a tooth
course;general line of orientation: 'the river takes a southern course'. 'the northeastern trend of the coast'
extrusion;something that protrudes
orbit;the (usually elliptical) path described by one celestial body in its revolution about another. 'he plotted the orbit of the moon'
bubble;a hollow globule of gas (e.g., air or carbon dioxide)
solid;"a three-dimensional shape"
radius;a straight line from the center to the perimeter of a circle (or from the center to the surface of a sphere)
electrical line of force;a line of force in an electrical field
icosahedron;any polyhedron having twenty plane faces
aim;the direction or path along which something moves or along which it lies
camphor ball;a small sphere of camphor or naphthalene used to keep moths away from stored clothing
torus;a ring-shaped surface generated by rotating a circle around an axis that does not intersect the circle
conveyer;a moving belt that transports objects (as in a factory)
incision;a depression scratched or carved into a surface
stria;any of a number of tiny parallel grooves such as: the scratches left by a glacier on rocks or the streaks or ridges in muscle tissue
ellipsoid of revolution;a shape that is generated by rotating an ellipse around one of its axes. 'it looked like a sphere but on closer examination i saw it was really a spheroid'
equator;an imaginary line around the earth forming the great circle that is equidistant from the north and south poles. 'the equator is the boundary between the northern and southern hemispheres'
indentation;a concave shape in a surface or edge or coastline etc.
optic axis;a line that passes through the center of curvature of a lens so that light is neither reflected nor refracted
triangular prism;a prism whose bases are triangles
recess;a small concavity
horizon;the great circle on the celestial sphere whose plane passes through the sensible horizon and the center of the earth
geographic point;a point on the surface of the earth
trail;a track or mark left by something that has passed. 'there as a trail of blood'. 'a tear left its trail on her cheek'
equinoctial;the great circle on the celestial sphere midway between the celestial poles
track;a line or route along which something travels or moves: 'the hurricane demolished houses in its path'. 'the track of an animal'. 'the course of the river'
zenith;the point above the observer that is directly opposite the nadir on the imaginary sphere against which celestial bodies appear to be projected
slot;the trail of an animal (especially a deer)
orb;any object with a spherical shape. 'a ball of fire'
isochrone;an isogram connecting points at which something occurs or arrives at the same time
danger line;a line beyond which it is dangerous to go
south celestial pole;the celestial pole above the southern hemisphere
course;a line or route along which something travels or moves: 'the hurricane demolished houses in its path'. 'the track of an animal'. 'the course of the river'
pipe;a hollow cylindrical shape
plimsoll;waterlines to show the level the water should reach when the ship is properly loaded
approach pattern;the path that is prescribed for an airplane that is preparing to land at an airport. 'the traffic patterns around o'hare are very crowded'. 'they stayed in the pattern until the fog lifted'
trend;a general direction in which something tends to move: 'the shoreward tendency of the current'. 'the trend of the stock market'
dent;a depression scratched or carved into a surface
teardrop;anything shaped like a falling drop (as a pendant gem on an earring)
semiminor axis;one-half the minor axis of an ellipse
fovea centralis;small depression in the retina containing cones and where vision is most acute
globe;any object with a spherical shape. 'a ball of fire'
spherule;a small sphere
suds;the froth produced by soaps or detergents
perpendicular;a straight line at right angles to another line
carousel;carries luggage to air travelers
impression;a concavity in a surface produced by pressing. 'he left the impression of his fingers in the soft mud'
element;a straight line that generates a cylinder or cone
score;a notch that is made to keep a tally
diameter;a straight line connecting the center of a circle with two points on its perimeter (or the center of a sphere with two points on its surface)
fireball;the luminous center of a nuclear explosion
horizon;the line at which the sky and earth appear to meet
track;a groove on a phonograph recording
trend;general line of orientation: 'the river takes a southern course'. 'the northeastern trend of the coast'
tangent plane;the plane that contains all the lines tangent to a specific point on a surface
fairy circle;a ring of fungi marking the periphery of the perennial underground growth of the mycelium
bus route;the route regularly followed by a passenger bus
point of apoapsis;(astronomy) the point in an orbit farthest from the body being orbited
ideal solid;any one of five solids whose faces are congruent regular polygons and whose polyhedral angles are all congruent
supply line;a route over which supplies can be delivered
track;(computer science) one of the circular magnetic patterns on a magnetic disk that serve as a guide for writing and reading data
flight path;a designated route followed by airplanes in flying from one airport to another
flute;a groove or furrow in cloth etc especially the shallow concave groove on the shaft of a column
pit of the stomach;a slight depression in the midline just below the sternum (where a blow can affect the solar plexus)
swirl;the shape of something rotating rapidly
beat;a regular route for a sentry or policeman. 'in the old days a policeman walked a beat and knew all his people by name'
perigee;periapsis in earth orbit. the point in its orbit where a satellite is nearest to the earth
data track;(computer science) one of the circular magnetic patterns on a magnetic disk that serve as a guide for writing and reading data
whirl;the shape of something rotating rapidly
pentahedron;any polyhedron having five plane faces
regression line;a smooth curve fitted to the set of paired data in regression analysis. for linear regression the curve is a straight line
saucer;something with a round shape like a flat circular plate
sensible horizon;the line at which the sky and earth appear to meet
parallelopiped;a prism whose bases are parallelograms
pole;one of two points of intersection of the earth's axis and the celestial sphere
air bubble;a bubble of air
lather;the foam resulting from excessive sweating (as on a horse)
x axis;the horizontal axis in a plane coordinate system
isogram;a line drawn on a map connecting points having the same numerical value of some variable
apparent horizon;the line at which the sky and earth appear to meet
point;the precise location of something. a spatially limited location. 'she walked to a point where she could survey the whole street'
latitude;an imaginary line around the earth parallel to the equator
descending node;the point at which an orbit crosses the ecliptic plane going south
belt;a path or strip (as cut by one course of mowing)
interplanetary medium;interplanetary space including forms of energy and gas and dust
pocket;a hollow concave shape made by removing something
space;"the unlimited 3-dimensional expanse in which everything is located. 'they tested his ability to locate objects in space'"
loxodrome;a line on a sphere that cuts all meridians at the same angle. the path taken by a ship or plane that maintains a constant compass direction
geostationary orbit;a circular orbit around the earth having a period of 24 hours. a satellite in such an orbit will be stationary relative to the earth
cylinder;a solid bounded by a cylindrical surface and two parallel planes (the bases)
y axis;the vertical axis in a plane coordinate system
point;a very small circular shape. 'a row of points'. 'draw lines between the dots'
tack;the heading or position of a vessel relative to the trim of its sails
field line;an imaginary line in a field of force. direction of the line at any point is the direction of the force at that point
aphelion;apoapsis in solar orbit. the point in the orbit of a planet or comet that is at the greatest distance from the sun
lifeline;a crease on the palm. its length is said by palmists to indicate how long you will live
parallelepipedon;a prism whose bases are parallelograms
tail end;any projection that resembles the tail of an animal
snow line;the line on a mountain above which there is perpetual snow and ice
prime meridian;a meridian from which east and west are reckoned (usually the greenwich (england) longitude)
apoapsis;(astronomy) the point in an orbit farthest from the body being orbited
supply route;a route over which supplies can be delivered
high water mark;a line marking the highest level reached
watershed;a line that divides two adjacent river systems
prism;a polyhedron with two congruent and parallel faces (the bases) and whose lateral faces are parallelograms
stamp;the distinctive form in which a thing is made. 'pottery of this cast was found throughout the region'
hour circle;a great circle on the celestial sphere that passes through both celestial poles
vortex;the shape of something rotating rapidly
tetrahedron;any polyhedron having four plane faces
trough;a concave shape with an open top
fan belt;a belt driven by the crankshaft that drives a fan that pulls air through the radiator
truncated pyramid;a frustum formed from a pyramid
soap bubble;a bubble formed by a thin soap film
excrescence;something that protrudes
approach path;the final path followed by an aircraft as it is landing
node;(astronomy) a point where an orbit crosses a plane
apex;the point on the celestial sphere toward which the sun and solar system appear to be moving relative to the fixed stars
corner;a small concavity
traffic pattern;the path that is prescribed for an airplane that is preparing to land at an airport. 'the traffic patterns around o'hare are very crowded'. 'they stayed in the pattern until the fog lifted'
mothball;a small sphere of camphor or naphthalene used to keep moths away from stored clothing
decahedron;any polyhedron having ten plane faces
funnel;a conical shape with a wider and a narrower opening at the two ends
indenture;a concave shape in a surface or edge or coastline etc.
conveyor belt;a moving belt that transports objects (as in a factory)
caterpillar tread;around wheels to grip rough ground
isopleth;a line drawn on a map connecting points having the same numerical value of some variable
rebate;a rectangular groove made to hold two pieces together
octahedron;any polyhedron having eight plane faces
line;a slight depression in the smoothness of a surface. 'his face has many wrinkles'
froth;a mass of small bubbles formed in or on a liquid
round;a regular route for a sentry or policeman. 'in the old days a policeman walked a beat and knew all his people by name'
outer space;"any region in space outside the earth's atmosphere. 'the astronauts walked in space without a tether'"
knife;any long thin projection that is transient. 'tongues of flame licked at the walls'. 'rifles exploded quick knives of fire into the dark'
serration;a single notch in a row of notches. 'one of the serrations was broken off'
garden roller;heavy cast-iron cylinder used to flatten lawns
conveyer belt;a moving belt that transports objects (as in a factory)
rabbet;a rectangular groove made to hold two pieces together
water parting;a line that divides two adjacent river systems
doughnut;a toroidal shape. 'a ring of ships in the harbor'. 'a halo of smoke'
trade route;a route followed by traders (usually in caravans)
regular octahedron;an octahedron with eight equilateral triangles as faces
ridge;any long raised strip
low water mark;a line marking the lowest level reached
dewdrop;a drop of dew
stem;the long narrow part of something
sprocket;has teeth on the rims to pull film or paper through
anulus;a toroidal shape. 'a ring of ships in the harbor'. 'a halo of smoke'
time ball;a ball that slides down a staff to show a fixed time. especially at an observatory
mandibular fossa;a deep concavity in the temporal bone at the root of the zygomatic arch that receives the condyle of the mandible
spoor;the trail left by a person or an animal. what the hunter follows in pursuing game. 'the hounds followed the fox's spoor'
region;a large indefinite location on the surface of the earth. 'penguins inhabit the polar regions'
regular polyhedron;any one of five solids whose faces are congruent regular polygons and whose polyhedral angles are all congruent
chord;a straight line connecting two points on a curve
fireball;a ball of fire (such as the sun or a ball-shaped discharge of lightning)
path;an established line of travel or access
rhumb;a line on a sphere that cuts all meridians at the same angle. the path taken by a ship or plane that maintains a constant compass direction
cone;a shape whose base is a cone and whose sides taper up to a point
platonic body;any one of five solids whose faces are congruent regular polygons and whose polyhedral angles are all congruent
waterline;a line painted on the hull of a ship to correspond with the surface of the water when the ship is afloat on an even keel
toroid;a ring-shaped surface generated by rotating a circle around an axis that does not intersect the circle
line of heart;a crease on the palm. palmists say it indicates your emotional nature
pyramid;a polyhedron having a polygonal base and triangular sides with a common vertex
pearl;a shape that is small and round. 'he studied the shapes of low-viscosity drops'. 'beads of sweat on his forehead'
date line;an imaginary line on the surface of the earth following (approximately) the 180th meridian
camber;a slight convexity (as of the surface of a road)
droop;a shape that sags. 'there was a sag in the chair seat'
focus;"a fixed reference point on the concave side of a conic section"
coordinate axis;one of the fixed reference lines of a coordinate system
caterpillar tracks;around wheels to grip rough ground
flight path;the path of an aircraft or rocket through the air
foam;a mass of small bubbles formed in or on a liquid
timber line;line marking the upper limit of tree growth in mountains or northern latitudes
prismatoid;a polyhedron whose vertices all lie in one or the other of two parallel planes. the faces that lie in those planes are the bases of the prismatoid
periapsis;(astronomy) the point in as orbit closest to the body being orbited
space;"any region in space outside the earth's atmosphere. 'the astronauts walked in space without a tether'"
basin;a concave shape with an open top
bulge;something that protrudes
disc;something with a round shape like a flat circular plate
facet plane;the plane of a facet of an object (as of a cube)
asymptote;a straight line that is the limiting value of a curve. can be considered as tangent at infinity. 'the asymptote of the curve'
mold;the distinctive form in which a thing is made. 'pottery of this cast was found throughout the region'
prominence;something that protrudes
bump;something that protrudes
steps;the course along which a person has walked or is walking in. 'i followed in his steps'. 'he retraced his steps'
geographical point;a point on the surface of the earth
glenoid fossa;a deep concavity in the temporal bone at the root of the zygomatic arch that receives the condyle of the mandible
chap;a long narrow depression in a surface
prismoid;a prismatoid whose bases are polygons having the same number of sides and whose other faces are trapezoids or parallelograms
tongue;any long thin projection that is transient. 'tongues of flame licked at the walls'. 'rifles exploded quick knives of fire into the dark'
hexahedron;any polyhedron having six plane faces
celestial point;"a point in the heavens (on the celestial sphere)"
celestial pole;one of two points of intersection of the earth's axis and the celestial sphere
projection;any solid convex shape that juts out from something
node;any thickened enlargement
shank;the round part of the bit by which it is held in the drill
protuberance;something that protrudes
vernal equinox;(astronomy) the equinoctial point that lies in the constellation of pisces
regular dodecahedron;a dodecahedron with twelve regular pentagons as faces
tube;a hollow cylindrical shape
glenoid fossa;the concavity in the head of the scapula that receives the head of the humerus to form the shoulder joint
niche;a small concavity
isohel;an isogram connecting points receiving equal amounts of sunshine
goldbrick;a brick-shaped block that looks like gold but is not
paint roller;a roller that has an absorbent surface used for spreading paint
seam;a slight depression in the smoothness of a surface. 'his face has many wrinkles'
water line;a line marking the level reached by a body of water
magnetic equator;an imaginary line paralleling the equator where a magnetic needle has no dip
platen;the roller on a typewriter against which the keys strike
fairway;the usual course taken by vessels through a harbor or costal waters
funnel shape;a conical shape with a wider and a narrower opening at the two ends
tangent;a straight line that touches but does not intersect a curve
truncated cone;a frustum formed from a cone
regular convex solid;any one of five solids whose faces are congruent regular polygons and whose polyhedral angles are all congruent
observer s meridian;a meridian that passes through the observer's zenith
bead;a shape that is small and round. 'he studied the shapes of low-viscosity drops'. 'beads of sweat on his forehead'
magnetic line of force;a line of force in a magnetic field
noose;a loop formed in a cord or rope by means of a slipknot. it binds tighter as the cord or rope is pulled
love line;a crease on the palm. palmists say it indicates your emotional nature
isotherm;an isogram connecting points having the same temperature at a given time
bolus;a small round soft mass (as of chewed food)
white water;frothy water as in rapids or waterfalls
quarter circle;a quarter of the circumference of a circle
sheet;"(mathematics) an unbounded two-dimensional shape. 'we will refer to the plane of the graph as the x-y plane'. 'any line joining two points on a plane lies wholly on that plane'"
convex shape;a shape that curves or bulges outward
apex of the sun s way;the point on the celestial sphere toward which the sun and solar system appear to be moving relative to the fixed stars
glide path;the final path followed by an aircraft as it is landing
dodecahedron;any polyhedron having twelve plane faces
tail;any projection that resembles the tail of an animal
concave polyhedron;a polyhedron some of whose plane sections are concave polygons
pellet;a small sphere
convex polyhedron;a polyhedron any plane section of which is a convex polygon
parallel;an imaginary line around the earth parallel to the equator
circuit;a regular route for a sentry or policeman. 'in the old days a policeman walked a beat and knew all his people by name'
airway;a designated route followed by airplanes in flying from one airport to another
pattern;the path that is prescribed for an airplane that is preparing to land at an airport. 'the traffic patterns around o'hare are very crowded'. 'they stayed in the pattern until the fog lifted'
regression curve;a smooth curve fitted to the set of paired data in regression analysis. for linear regression the curve is a straight line
notch;a depression scratched or carved into a surface
parallel of latitude;an imaginary line around the earth parallel to the equator
stalagmite;a cylinder of calcium carbonate projecting upward from the floor of a limestone cave
dimple;a small natural hollow in the cheek or chin. 'his dimple appeared whenever he smiled'
way;a line leading to a place or point: 'he looked the other direction'. 'didn't know the way home'
sphere;a three-dimensional closed surface such that every point on the surface is equidistant from the center
equinoctial circle;the great circle on the celestial sphere midway between the celestial poles
periselene;periapsis in orbit around the moon
curl;a round shape formed by a series of concentric circles
radius;"a circular region whose area is indicated by the length of its radius. 'they located it within a radius of 2 miles'"
line;a length (straight or curved) without breadth or thickness. the trace of a moving point
convexity;a shape that curves or bulges outward
midline;the median plane of the body (or some part of the body)
jut;something that protrudes
coil;a round shape formed by a series of concentric circles
tropic;either of two parallels of latitude about 23.5 degrees north and south of the equator representing the points farthest north and south at which the sun can shine directly overhead and constituting the boundaries of the torrid zone or tropics
shank;the long narrow part of something
polyhedron;a solid figure bounded by plane polygons or faces
load line;waterlines to show the level the water should reach when the ship is properly loaded
great divide;north american watershed. formed by the rocky mountains
drum;a bulging cylindrical shape. hollow with flat ends
antarctic circle;a line of latitude north of the south pole
heart line;a crease on the palm. palmists say it indicates your emotional nature
tropic of cancer;a line of latitude about 23 degrees north of the equator
loop;anything with a round or oval shape that is closed or nearly closed
bias;a straight line that is not at right angles to a side
concave shape;a shape that curves inward
spume;foam or froth on the sea
cup;any cup-shaped concavity. 'bees filled the waxen cups with honey'. 'he wore a jock strap with a metal cup'. 'the cup of her bra'
apogee;apoapsis in earth orbit. the point in its orbit where a satellite is at the greatest distance from the earth
furrow;a slight depression in the smoothness of a surface. 'his face has many wrinkles'
circuit;anything with a round or oval shape that is closed or nearly closed
interstellar space;"the space between stars"
geodesic;"(mathematics) the shortest line between two points on a mathematically defined surface (as a straight line on a plane or a an arc of a great circle on a sphere)"
conveyor;a moving belt that transports objects (as in a factory)
life line;a crease on the palm. its length is said by palmists to indicate how long you will live
equinoctial point;(astronomy) either of the two celestial points at which the celestial equator intersects the ecliptic
toroid;the doughnut-shaped object enclosed by a torus
direction;a line leading to a place or point: 'he looked the other direction'. 'didn't know the way home'
regular convex polyhedron;any one of five solids whose faces are congruent regular polygons and whose polyhedral angles are all congruent
spine;any pointed projection
prick;a depression scratched or carved into a surface
scoop;a hollow concave shape made by removing something
picture plane;the plane that is in the foreground of a drawing or painting. coextensive with but different from the objective surface of the work
tip;a v shape. 'the cannibal's teeth were filed to sharp points'
stalactite;a cylinder of calcium carbonate hanging from the roof of a limestone cave
inside track;the inner side of a curved racecourse
magnetic pole;"either of two points where the lines of force of the earth's magnetic field are vertical"
hump;something that protrudes
luggage carousel;carries luggage to air travelers
flyway;the geographic route along which birds customarily migrate
isogonal line;an imaginary line connecting points on the earth's surface where the magnetic declination is the same
anchor ring;a toroidal shape. 'a ring of ships in the harbor'. 'a halo of smoke'
bowl;a concave shape with an open top
celestial horizon;the great circle on the celestial sphere whose plane passes through the sensible horizon and the center of the earth
equinox;(astronomy) either of the two celestial points at which the celestial equator intersects the ecliptic
watermark;a line marking the level reached by a body of water
location;a point or extent in space
parallelepiped;a prism whose bases are parallelograms
drum;a hollow cast-iron cylinder attached to the wheel that forms part of the brakes
anomaly;"(astronomy) position of a planet as defined by its angular distance from its perihelion (as observed from the sun)"
head;the foam or froth that accumulates at the top when you pour an effervescent liquid into a container. 'the beer had a large head of foam'
glenoid cavity;the concavity in the head of the scapula that receives the head of the humerus to form the shoulder joint
striation;any of a number of tiny parallel grooves such as: the scratches left by a glacier on rocks or the streaks or ridges in muscle tissue
route;an established line of travel or access
ascending node;the point at which an orbit crosses the ecliptic plane going north
line of force;an imaginary line in a field of force. direction of the line at any point is the direction of the force at that point
regular icosahedron;an icosahedron with twenty equilateral triangles as faces
part;a line where the hair is parted. 'his part was right in the middle'
diagonal;a straight line that is not at right angles to a side
line of vision;a straight line along which an observer looks
hipline;the line formed by the lower edge of hip-length garment
round shape;"a shape that is curved and without sharp angles"
heading;the direction or path along which something moves or along which it lies
position;the particular portion of space occupied by a physical object: 'he put the lamp back in its place'
longitude;an imaginary great circle on the surface of the earth passing through the north and south poles at right angles to the equator. 'all points on the same meridian have the same longitude'
disk;something with a round shape like a flat circular plate
fossa;a concavity in a surface (especially an anatomical depression)
principal axis;a line that passes through the center of curvature of a lens so that light is neither reflected nor refracted
part;the extended spatial location of something. 'the farming regions of france'. 'religions in all parts of the world'. 'regions of outer space'
midplane;the median plane of the body (or some part of the body)
ringlet;a round shape formed by a series of concentric circles
straight line;"a line traced by a point traveling in a constant direction. a line of zero curvature. 'the shortest distance between two points is a straight line'"
sawtooth;a serration on a saw blade
path;a line or route along which something travels or moves: 'the hurricane demolished houses in its path'. 'the track of an animal'. 'the course of the river'
ecliptic;the great circle representing the apparent annual path of the sun. the plane of the earth's orbit around the sun. makes an angle of about 23 degrees with the equator. 'all of the planets rotate the sun in approximately the same ecliptic'
cylinder;a surface generated by rotating a parallel line around a fixed line
imprint;a concavity in a surface produced by pressing. 'he left the impression of his fingers in the soft mud'
horse latitude;either of two belts or regions near 30n or 30s characterized by calms and light baffling winds
crevice;a long narrow depression in a surface
water line;a line painted on the hull of a ship to correspond with the surface of the water when the ship is afloat on an even keel
prayer wheel;a cylinder with tibetan buddhist prayers written on it. each revolution counts as uttering prayers
depression;a concavity in a surface produced by pressing. 'he left the impression of his fingers in the soft mud'
belt;endless loop of flexible material between two rotating shafts or pulleys
tree line;line marking the upper limit of tree growth in mountains or northern latitudes
spot;a point located with respect to surface features of some region. 'this is a nice place for a picnic'
line of latitude;an imaginary line around the earth parallel to the equator
trapezohedron;a polyhedron whose faces are trapeziums
great circle;a circular line on the surface of a sphere formed by intersecting it with a plane passing through the center
convolution;the shape of something rotating rapidly
line of fire;the path of a missile discharged from a firearm
annulus;a toroidal shape. 'a ring of ships in the harbor'. 'a halo of smoke'
roll;a cylinder that revolves
quadrangular prism;a prism whose bases are quadrangles
major axis;the longest axis of an ellipse or ellipsoid. passes through the two foci
right ascension;an arc of the celestial equator eastward from the vernal equinox
peak;a v shape. 'the cannibal's teeth were filed to sharp points'
scratch;a depression scratched or carved into a surface
concavity;a shape that curves inward
epigastric fossa;a slight depression in the midline just below the sternum (where a blow can affect the solar plexus)
place;a point located with respect to surface features of some region. 'this is a nice place for a picnic'
migration route;the geographic route along which birds customarily migrate
dateline;an imaginary line on the surface of the earth following (approximately) the 180th meridian
arctic circle;a line of latitude south of the north pole
pole;"one of two antipodal points where the earth's axis of rotation intersects the earth's surface"
umbo;a slight elevation where the malleus attaches to the eardrum
frustum;the part that is left when a cone or pyramid is cut by a plane parallel to the base and the apical part is removed
north pole;the northernmost point of the earth's axis
trundle;small wheel or roller
gibbousness;something that protrudes
perilune;periapsis in orbit around the moon
sag;a shape that sags. 'there was a sag in the chair seat'
regular tetrahedron;a tetrahedron with four equilateral triangular faces
block;a three-dimensional shape with six square or rectangular sides
minor axis;the shorter or shortest axis of an ellipse or ellipsoid
brake drum;a hollow cast-iron cylinder attached to the wheel that forms part of the brakes
aposelene;apoapsis in orbit around the moon
perihelion;periapsis in solar orbit. the point in the orbit of a planet or comet where it is nearest to the sun
side;a line segment forming part of the perimeter of a plane figure. 'the hypotenuse of a right triangle is always the longest side'
fluting;a groove or furrow in cloth etc especially the shallow concave groove on the shaft of a column
line of saturn;a crease on the palm. palmists say it indicates how successful you will be
curve;"a line on a graph representing data"
taper;a convex shape that narrows toward a point
transporter;a moving belt that transports objects (as in a factory)
shank;the part of a bolt between the thread and the head
nub;a small lump or protuberance
magnetic meridian;an imaginary line passing through both magnetic poles of the earth
roll;a round shape formed by a series of concentric circles
thumb index;one of a series of rounded notches in the fore edge of a book to indicate sections
beeline;the most direct route. 'he made a beeline for the bathroom'
cast;the distinctive form in which a thing is made. 'pottery of this cast was found throughout the region'
pit;a concavity in a surface (especially an anatomical depression)
crack;a long narrow depression in a surface
solar apex;the point on the celestial sphere toward which the sun and solar system appear to be moving relative to the fixed stars
swath;a path or strip (as cut by one course of mowing)
notch;a v-shaped indentation. 'there were four notches in the handle of his revolver'
widow s peak;a v-shaped point in the hairline in the middle of the forehead
line of flight;the path along which a freely moving object travels through the air
quirk;a narrow groove beside a beading
water level;a line painted on the hull of a ship to correspond with the surface of the water when the ship is afloat on an even keel
whorl;a round shape formed by a series of concentric circles
place;the particular portion of space occupied by a physical object: 'he put the lamp back in its place'
vector;a straight line segment whose length is magnitude and whose orientation in space is direction
perijove;periapsis in orbit around jupiter
intervertebral disk;a fibrocartilaginous disc between all of the vertebrae of the spinal column (except between the first two)
tendency;a general direction in which something tends to move: 'the shoreward tendency of the current'. 'the trend of the stock market'
rhombohedron;a parallelepiped bounded by six similar faces (either rhombuses or parallelograms)
line of life;a crease on the palm. its length is said by palmists to indicate how long you will live
groove;a long narrow furrow or channel cut by a natural process (such as erosion) or by a tool (as e.g. a groove in a phonograph record)
celestial equator;the great circle on the celestial sphere midway between the celestial poles
rim;the shape of a raised edge of a more or less circular object
geosynchronous orbit;a circular orbit around the earth having a period of 24 hours. a satellite in such an orbit will be stationary relative to the earth
agonic line;an imaginary line connecting points on the earth's surface where the magnetic declination is zero
dot;a very small circular shape. 'a row of points'. 'draw lines between the dots'
equinoctial line;the great circle on the celestial sphere midway between the celestial poles
sphere;a solid figure bounded by a spherical surface (including the space it encloses)
fovea;small depression in the retina containing cones and where vision is most acute
cone shape;a shape whose base is a cone and whose sides taper up to a point
apolune;apoapsis in orbit around the moon
crow s foot;a wrinkle at the outer corner of your eyes
driving belt;a belt that carries motion from a motor to the machinery
autumnal equinox;(astronomy) the equinoctial point that lies in the constellation of virgo
clinch;a small slip noose made with seizing
cuboid;a rectangular parallelepiped
plimsoll line;waterlines to show the level the water should reach when the ship is properly loaded
axis;a straight line through a body or figure that satisfies certain conditions
element of a cylinder;a straight line running the length of the cylinder
conoid;a shape whose base is a cone and whose sides taper up to a point
dimple;any slight depression in a surface. 'there are approximately 336 dimples on a golf ball'
plane;"(mathematics) an unbounded two-dimensional shape. 'we will refer to the plane of the graph as the x-y plane'. 'any line joining two points on a plane lies wholly on that plane'"
antapex;the point opposite in direction from the solar_apex. the point the solar system is moving away from
divide;a line that divides two adjacent river systems
scroll;a round shape formed by a series of concentric circles
line of fate;a crease on the palm. palmists say it indicates how successful you will be
interstellar medium;interstellar space including streams of protons moving from the stars
double clinch;a clinch with two loops
protrusion;something that protrudes
point of periapsis;(astronomy) the point in as orbit closest to the body being orbited
salient;(military) the part of the line of battle that projects closest to the enemy
flight line;place where airplanes are parked
regular hexahedron;a hexahedron with six equal squares as faces
line;"a spatial location defined by a real or imaginary unidimensional extent"
secant;a straight line that intersects a curve at two or more points
point;a v shape. 'the cannibal's teeth were filed to sharp points'
geodesic line;"(mathematics) the shortest line between two points on a mathematically defined surface (as a straight line on a plane or a an arc of a great circle on a sphere)"
dado;a rectangular groove cut into a board so that another piece can fit into it
quadrant;a quarter of the circumference of a circle
mensal line;a crease on the palm. palmists say it indicates your emotional nature
south pole;the southernmost point of the earth's axis
