uphill;the upward slope of a hill
berkshires;a low mountain range in western massachusetts. a resort area
heel;the back part of a shoe or boot underneath the heel
vein;a layer of ore between layers of rock
deck;any of various floor-like platforms built into a vessel
tidal basin;a basin that is full of water at high tide
upper limit;the limit on the upper (or northernmost) side of something
gun deck;formerly any deck other than the weather deck having cannons from end to end
liakoura;a mountain in central greece where (according to greek mythology) the muses lived. known as the mythological home of music and poetry. 'liakoura is the modern name of mount parnassus'
tunnel;a hole in the ground made by an animal for shelter
milling;the corrugated edge of a coin
olduvai gorge;a gorge in northeastern tanzania where anthropologists have found some of the earliest human remains
guallatiri;the world's highest volcano. in the andes in northern chile. last erupted in 1959
mesa;flat tableland with steep edges. 'the tribe was relatively safe on the mesa but they had to descend into the valley for water'
floe;a flat mass of ice floating at sea
chessboard;a board having 64 squares of two alternating colors
kilimanjaro;the highest peak in africa. located in northeastern tanzania. 19,340 feet high
ulugh muz tagh;a mountain in the kunlun range in china (25,340 feet high)
mound;a small natural hill
krakatoa;a small volcanic island in indonesia between java and sumatra. its violent eruption in 1883 was the greatest in recorded history
dale;(british) an open river valley (in a hilly area)
geology;"the geological features of the earth"
apennines;a mountain range extending the length of the italian peninsula
reverse;the side of a coin or medal that does not bear the principal design
raise;an upward slope or grade (as in a road). 'the car couldn't make the grade'
stiletto heel;a very high narrow heel on women's shoes
hot spring;a natural spring of water at a temperature of 70 f or above
illimani;a mountain peak in the andes in bolivia (21,201 feet high)
road surface;the surface of a paved roadway
hearing;the range within which a voice can be heard. 'the children were told to stay within earshot'
down;(usually plural) a rolling treeless highland with little soil
the himalaya;a mountain range extending 1500 miles on the border between india and tibet. this range contains the world's highest mountain
after part;the rear part of a ship
alpine glacier;a glacier that moves down from a high valley
tabletop;the top horizontal surface of a table
centerline;"a line that bisects a plane figure"
sajama;a mountain peak in the andes in bolivia (21,391 feet high)
weisshorn;a mountain in the alps in switzerland (14,804 feet high)
swell;a rounded elevation (especially one on an ocean floor)
ocean floor;the bottom of a sea or oceanthe bottom of a sea or ocean
lower bound;(mathematics) a number equal to or less than any other number in a given set
deckle;rough edge left by a deckle on handmade paper or produced artificially on machine-made paper
stage;a large platform on which people can stand and can be seen by an audience. 'he clambered up onto the stage and got the actors to help him into the box'
wedge heel;a heel that is an extension of the sole of the shoe
crown;the part of a hat covering the crown of the head
spring;a natural flow of ground water
reach;the limits within which something can be effective. 'he was beyond the range of their fire'
cliff;a steep high face of rock
frontispiece;an ornamental facade
nape;the back side of the neck
tail;the rear part of an aircraft
base;(anatomy) the part of an organ nearest its point of attachment: 'the base of the skull'
desktop;the top of a desk
monopoly board;a board used for playing monopoly
mt. mckinley;a mountain in south central alaska. the highest peak in north america (20,300 feet high)
end point;a point of termination or completion
icecap;a mass of ice and snow that permanently covers a large area of land (e.g., the polar regions or a mountain peak)
exterior;the outer side or surface of something
underbelly;lower side: 'the underbellies of clouds'
turntable;a circular horizontal platform that rotates a phonograph record while it is being played
bitter end;(nautical) the inboard end of a line or cable especially the end that is wound around a bitt
upper side;the highest or uppermost side of anything. 'put your books on top of the desk'. 'only the top side of the box was painted'
hurricane deck;a deck at the top of a passenger ship
lascar;a volcano in the andes in chile
grand teton;a mountain peak in northwestern wyoming. the highest peak in the teton range (13,766 feet high)
flight deck;the upper deck of an aircraft carrier. used as a runway
yerupaja;a mountain peak in the andes in peru (21,709 feet high)
catskill mountains;a range of the appalachians west of the hudson in southeastern new york. includes many popular resort areas
groundwater level;underground surface below which the ground is wholly saturated with water: 'spring rains had raised the water table'
wild blue yonder;the sky as viewed during daylight. 'he shot an arrow into the blue'
folium;a thin layer or stratum of (especially metamorphic) rock
mount mckinley;a mountain in south central alaska. the highest peak in north america (20,300 feet high)
upper deck;a higher deck
macadam;a surface paved with compressed layers of broken rocks held together with tar
logan;a mountain peak in the saint elias range in the southwestern yukon territory in canada (19,850 feet high)
side;a surface forming part of the outside of an object. 'he examined all sides of the crystal'. 'dew dripped from the face of the leaf'
ring;a square platform marked off by ropes in which contestants box or wrestle
prize ring;the ring where boxers fight
mountain chain;a series of hills or mountains. 'the valley was between two ranges of hills'. 'the plains lay just beyond the mountain range'
back;"the part of something that is furthest from the normal viewer: 'he stood at the back of the stage'. 'it was hidden in the rear of the store'"
mustagh range;a mountain range in northern kashmir. an extension of the hindu kush. contains the 2nd highest peak
crest;the center of a cambered road
backgammon board;the board on which backgammon is played
elevation;a raised or elevated geological formation
mineral vein;a layer of ore between layers of rock
facade;the face or front of a building
nacimiento;a mountain peak in the andes in argentina (21,302 feet high)
perpendicular;an extremely steep face
sidewall;the side of an automobile tire. 'the car had white sidewalls'
shenandoah valley;a large valley between the allegheny and blue ridge mountains in northern virginia. site of numerous battles during the american civil war
balkan mountains;the major mountain range of bulgaria and the balkan peninsula
pit;a sizeable hole (usually in the ground). 'they dug a pit to bury the body'
weather deck;a deck having no overhead protection from the weather, but sheltering the deck below
launch area;a platform from which rockets or space craft are launched
lower deck;the deck below the main deck
pavement;the paved surface of a thoroughfare
base;a flat bottom on which something is intended to sit. 'a tub should sit on its own base'
crown;the enamel covered part of a tooth above the gum
heliopause;the boundary marking the edge of the sun's influence. the boundary (roughly 100 au from the sun) between the interplanetary medium and the interstellar medium. where the solar wind and the wind from other stars meet
hard palate;the bony part of the roof of the mouth
theatre stage;a stage in a theater on which actors can perform
stand;a platform where a (brass) band can play in the open air
mercedario;a mountain in the andes in argentina (22,210 feet high)
st. elias mountains;a range of mountains between alaska and the yukon territory
seacoast;the shore of a sea or ocean
front end;the side that is forward or prominent
swallow hole;a depression in the ground communicating with a subterranean passage (especially in limestone) and formed by solution or by collapse of a cavern roof
floorboard;the floor of an automobile
undersurface;the lower side of anything
range;a series of hills or mountains. 'the valley was between two ranges of hills'. 'the plains lay just beyond the mountain range'
hilum;"the scar on certain seeds marking its point of attachment to the funicle"
pothole;a pit or hole produced by wear or weathering (especially in a road surface)
brim;the top edge of a vessel
promontory;a natural elevation (especially a rocky one that just out into the sea)
stem;front part of a vessel or aircraft. 'he pointed the bow of the boat toward the finish line'
boundary;the line or plane indicating the limit or extent of something
ouija;a board with the alphabet on it. used with a planchette to spell out supernatural messages
berkshire hills;a low mountain range in western massachusetts. a resort area
edge;"a line determining the limits of an area"
view;the range of the eye. 'they were soon out of view'
offstage;a stage area out of sight of the audience
aeolis;ancient name for the coastal region of northwestern asia minor (including lesbos)
rabbit warren;a series of connected underground tunnels occupied by rabbits
ground;(art) the surface (as a wall or canvas) prepared to take the paint for a painting
cotswold hills;a range of low hills in southwestern england
bounds;the line or plane indicating the limit or extent of something
rearward;direction toward the rear. 'his outfit marched to the rearward of the tank divisions'
wormhole;hole made by a burrowing worm
outer boundary;the outside boundary or surface of something
ararat;the mountain peak that noah's ark landed on as the waters of the great flood receded
plateau;a flat highland
pike s peak;a mountain peak in the rockies in central colorado (14,109 feet high)
seamount;an underwater mountain rising above the ocean floor
ozark mountains;an area of low mountains in northwestern arkansas and southeastern missouri and northeastern oklahoma
plage;the beach at a seaside resort
crown;the uppermost part of a shape. 'at the peak of the pyramid'
mackerel sky;a sky filled with rows of cirrocumulus or small altocumulus clouds
underside;the lower side of anything
border;a line that indicates a boundary
outline;the line that appears to bound an object
poop deck;an exposed partial deck on the stern superstructure of a ship
bevel;two surfaces meeting at an angle different from 90 degrees
surface;"the outer boundary of an object or a material layer constituting or resembling such a boundary. 'there is a special cleaner for these surfaces'. 'the cloth had a pattern of red dots on a white surface'"
trough;a narrow depression (as in the earth or between ocean waves or in the ocean bed)
perimeter;"a line enclosing a plane areas"
treetop;the upper branches and leaves of a tree
lake bed;the bottom of a lake
auction block;a platform from which an auctioneer sells. 'they put their paintings on the block'
outside;the outer side or surface of something
alps;a large mountain system in south-central europe. scenic beauty and winter sports make them a popular tourist attraction
growler;a small iceberg or ice floe just large enough to be hazardous for shipping
endpoint;a point of termination or completion
riverbed;a channel occupied (or formerly occupied) by a river
caucasus mountains;the mountain range in caucasia between the black sea and the caspian sea that forms part of the traditional border between europe and asia
delta;a low triangular area where a river divides before entering a larger body of water
celestial sphere;the apparent surface of the imaginary sphere on which celestial bodies appear to be projected
crag;a steep rugged rock or cliff
sandbar;a bar of sand
pinpoint;the sharp point of a pin
soapbox;a platform raised above the surrounding level to give prominence to the person on it
cay;a coral reef off the southern coast of florida
cusp;point formed by two intersecting arcs (as from the intrados of a gothic arch)
starboard;the right side of a ship or aircraft to someone facing the bow or nose
skyline;the outline of objects seen against the sky
rabbit hole;a hole in the ground as a nest made by wild rabbits
outsole;the outer sole of a shoe or boot
lowland;low level country
three mile limit;the limit of a nation's territorial waters
kanchenjunga;a mountain the himalayas on the border between nepal and tibet (28,146 feet high)
cumberland mountains;the southwestern part of the appalachians
interface;(physical chemistry) a surface forming a common boundary between two things (two objects or liquids or chemical phases)
peak;the uppermost part of a shape. 'at the peak of the pyramid'
citlaltepetl;an extinct volcano in s mexico between mexico city and veracruz. the highest peak in mexico (18,695 feet)
karakorum range;a mountain range in northern kashmir. an extension of the hindu kush. contains the 2nd highest peak
mount sinai;a mountain peak in the southern sinai peninsula (7,500 feet high). it is believed to be the peak on which moses received the ten commandments
empennage;the rear part of an aircraft
frontispiece;illustration facing the title page of a book
shopfront;the side of a store facing the street. usually contains display windows
lunar crater;a crater on the earth's moon
moneky bridge;the highest navigational bridge on a ship. a small (often open) deck above the pilot house
screen;a white or silvered surface where pictures can be projected for viewing
front;"the part of something that is nearest to the normal viewer. 'he walked to the front of the stage'"
pinnacle;a lofty peak
dhaulagiri;a mountain in the himalayas in nepal (26,820 feet high)
berg;a large mass of ice floating at sea. usually broken off of a polar glacier
sand dune;a ridge of sand created by the wind. found in deserts or near lakes and oceans
head;the top of something. 'the head of the stairs'. 'the head of the page'. 'the head of the list'
el misti;the world's 2nd largest active volcano. located in the andes in s peru
quicksand;a pit filled with loose wet sand into which heavy objects sink
mount etna;an inactive volcano in sicily. last erupted in 1961. the highest volcano in europe (10,500 feet)
alaska range;a mountain range in south central alaska. contains mount mckinley
water table;underground surface below which the ground is wholly saturated with water: 'spring rains had raised the water table'
pyrenees;a chain of mountains between france and spain
foredeck;the deck between the bridge and the forecastle
vertical surface;a surface that is vertical
truck bed;the floor or bottom of a wagon or truck or trailer
ceiling;the overhead inside lining of a room. 'he hated painting the ceiling'
sangay;an inactive volcano in the andes in central ecuador. last erupted in 1946
steep;a steep place (as on a hill)
anthill;a mound of earth made by ants as they dig their nest
ambo;a platform raised above the surrounding level to give prominence to the person on it
beach;an area of sand sloping down to the water of a sea or lake
shirtfront;the front part of a shirt (usually not covered by the jacket). 'he had spilled catsup on his shirtfront'
heavens;the apparent surface of the imaginary sphere on which celestial bodies appear to be projected
empyrean;the apparent surface of the imaginary sphere on which celestial bodies appear to be projected
shoal;a sandbank in a stretch of water that is visible at low tide
illampu;a mountain peak in the andes in bolivia (20,870 feet high)
nearside;(british) the side of a vehicle nearest the kerb
headland;a natural elevation (especially a rocky one that just out into the sea)
chapiter;the upper part of a column that supports the entablature
crow s nest;platform for a lookout at or near the top of a mast
riverbank;the bank of a river
podium;a platform raised above the surrounding level to give prominence to the person on it
leading edge;the forward edge of an airfoil
mt. ararat;the mountain peak that noah's ark landed on as the waters of the great flood receded
front;the side that is seen or that goes first
highlands;the highlands are a mountainous region of northern scotland famous for its rugged beauty. known for the style of dress (the kilt and tartan) and the clan system (now in disuse)
clipboard;a small writing board with a clip at the top for holding papers
hammock;a small natural hill
great smoky mountains;part of the appalachians between north carolina and tennessee
gulch;a narrow gorge with a stream running through it
knoll;a small natural hill
french heel;a fairly high narrow heel on women's shoes
splay;an outward bevel around a door or window that makes it seem larger
side;a extended outer surface of an object. 'he turned the box over to examine the bottom side'. 'they painted all four sides of the house'
talus;a sloping mass of rocks at the base of a cliff
calvary;a hill near jerusalem where jesus was crucified
nanda devi;a mountain in the himalayas in northern india (25,660 feet high)
block;a platform from which an auctioneer sells. 'they put their paintings on the block'
palatine;the most important of the seven hills of ancient rome. supposedly the location of the first settlement and the site of many imperial palaces
theater stage;a stage in a theater on which actors can perform
gosainthan;a mountain in the himalayas in tibet (26,290 feet high)
etna;an inactive volcano in sicily. last erupted in 1961. the highest volcano in europe (10,500 feet)
crown;"the top point of a mountain or hill. 'the view from the peak was magnificent'. 'they clambered to the summit of monadnock'"
rockies;the chief mountain range of western north america. extends from british columbia to new mexico. forms the continental divide
table;flat tableland with steep edges. 'the tribe was relatively safe on the mesa but they had to descend into the valley for water'
earshot;the range within which a voice can be heard. 'the children were told to stay within earshot'
strand;a poetic term for a shore (as the area periodically covered and uncovered by the tides)
face;the side upon which the use of a thing depends (usually the most prominent surface of an object). 'he dealt the cards face down'
forestage;the part of a modern theater stage between the curtain and the orchestra (ie, in front of the curtain)
cameroon;an inactive volcano in western cameroon. highest peak on the west african coast
karakoram range;a mountain range in northern kashmir. an extension of the hindu kush. contains the 2nd highest peak
adirondacks;a mountain range in northeastern new york state. a popular resort area
glacier;a slowly moving mass of ice
edge;a sharp side formed by the intersection of two surfaces of an object. 'he rounded the edges of the box'
rise;an upward slope or grade (as in a road). 'the car couldn't make the grade'
bottom;"the lowest part of anything. 'they started at the bottom of the hill'"
koppie;(south africa) a small hill rising up from the african veld
bathyal zone;the steep descent of the seabed from the continental shelf to the abyssal zone
vertex;the highest point of something
extreme;the point located farthest from the middle of something
frontier;an international boundary or the area along such a boundary
kerb;an edge between a sidewalk and a roadway consisting of a line of curbstones (usually forming part of a gutter)
summit;the uppermost part of a shape. 'at the peak of the pyramid'
scree;a sloping mass of rocks at the base of a cliff
hollow;a depression hollowed out of solid matter
point;a promontory extending out into a large body of water. 'they sailed south around the point'
coastline;the outline of a coast
apex;the highest point of something
gopher hole;a hole in the ground made by gophers
landing stage;from which passengers and cargo can be (un)loaded
wide screen;a projection screen that is much wider than it is high
setting;the arrangement of scenery and properties to represent the place where a play or movie is enacted
sandbank;a submerged bank of sand near a shore or in a river. can be exposed at low tide
pulpit;a platform raised above the surrounding level to give prominence to the person on it
el libertador;a mountain in the andes in argentina (22,047 feet high)
cap;the upper part of a column that supports the entablature
huainaputina;an inactive volcano in the andes in s peru. last erupted in 1783
quarter;the rear part of a ship
range of mountains;a series of hills or mountains. 'the valley was between two ranges of hills'. 'the plains lay just beyond the mountain range'
landing deck;the upper deck of an aircraft carrier. used as a runway
aconcagua;the highest mountain in south america. in the andes in western argentina (22,834 feet high)
tyan shan;a major mountain range of central asia. extends 1,500 miles
edge;the boundary of a surface
seaside;the shore of a sea or ocean regarded as a resort
sawpit;a pit over which lumber is positioned to be sawed by two men with a long two-handled saw
thermal spring;a natural spring of water at a temperature of 70 f or above
pole;one of the two ends of a magnet where the magnetism seems to be concentrated
terminus;either end of a railroad or bus route
range;the limits within which something can be effective. 'he was beyond the range of their fire'
arroyo;(southwestern united states) a stream or brook
upper bound;(mathematics) a number equal to or greater than any other number in a given set
rocky mountains;the chief mountain range of western north america. extends from british columbia to new mexico. forms the continental divide
fingertip;the end (tip) of a finger
pasto;an active volcano in southeastern colombia in the andes
kwajalein;an atoll in the western marshall islands that was used as a japanese air and naval base during world war ii
go board;a board used for playing go
thalweg;the middle of the chief navigable channel of a waterway that forms the boundary line between states
ancohuma;a mountain peak in the andes in bolivia (20,960 feet high)
rear;the side that goes last or is not normally seen. 'he wrote the date on the back of the photograph'
limit;the boundary of a specific area
gameboard;a flat portable surface (usually rectangular) designed for board games. 'he got out the board and set up the pieces'
bridge;where ship is steered and captain stands
top side;the highest or uppermost side of anything. 'put your books on top of the desk'. 'only the top side of the box was painted'
tail;the rear part of a ship
cavity;a sizeable hole (usually in the ground). 'they dug a pit to bury the body'
welkin;the apparent surface of the imaginary sphere on which celestial bodies appear to be projected
laudo;a mountain peak in the andes in argentina (20,997 feet high)
cascade range;a mountain range in the northwestern united states extending through washington and oregon and northern california. a part of the coast range
platform;a raised horizontal surface. 'the speaker mounted the platform'
nuptse;a mountain in the central himalayas on the border of tibet and nepal (25,726 feet high)
boat deck;the upper deck on which lifeboats are stored
positive magnetic pole;the north-seeking pole of a magnet
rear;"the part of something that is furthest from the normal viewer: 'he stood at the back of the stage'. 'it was hidden in the rear of the store'"
upgrade;an upward slope or grade (as in a road). 'the car couldn't make the grade'
declivity;a downward slope
east side;the side that is on the east
bilge;where the sides of the vessel curve in to form the bottom
riverside;the bank of a river
vale;a long depression in the surface of the land that usually contains a river
catwalk;narrow. models display clothes on it at a fashion show
crown;the top of the head
dart board;a circular board of wood or cork used as the target in the game of darts
taxiway;a paved strip used by planes taxiing to or from the runway at an airport
cumberland plateau;the southwestern part of the appalachians
upper surface;the side that is uppermost
parquet;a floor made of parquetry
canon;(north america) a ravine formed by a river in an area with little rainfall
littoral zone;the region of the shore of a lake or sea or ocean
upside;the highest or uppermost side of anything. 'put your books on top of the desk'. 'only the top side of the box was painted'
periphery;the outside boundary or surface of something
awning deck;a deck at the top of a passenger ship
streambed;a channel occupied (or formerly occupied) by a stream
jacket;an artificial crown fitted over a broken or decayed tooth
ulugh muztagh;a mountain in the kunlun range in china (25,340 feet high)
razor edge;an edge that is as sharp as the cutting side of a razor
purace;an inactive volcano in the andes in s colombia. last erupted in 1950
tar pit;a natural accumulation of bitumens at the surface of the earth. often acts as a trap for animals whose bones are thus preserved
san joaquin valley;a vast valley in central california known for its rich farmland
ogive;conical head of a missile or rocket that protects the payload from heat during its passage through the atmosphere
second deck;the uppermost sheltered deck that runs the entire length of a large vessel
balkans;the major mountain range of bulgaria and the balkan peninsula
thrust stage;a stage that extends out into the audience's part of a theater and has seats on three sides
mountain range;a series of hills or mountains. 'the valley was between two ranges of hills'. 'the plains lay just beyond the mountain range'
rim;the top edge of a vessel
shore;the land along the edge of a body of water (a lake or ocean or river)
brow;the peak of a hill. 'the sun set behind the brow of distant hills'
runway;a strip of level paved ground where planes can take off and land
kuenlun mountains;a mountain range in china
ouija board;a board with the alphabet on it. used with a planchette to spell out supernatural messages
city line;the boundary of a city
extremum;the point located farthest from the middle of something
bitthead;the upper end of a bitt
horizontal surface;a flat surface at right angles to a plumb line. 'park the car on the level'
hurricane roof;a deck at the top of a passenger ship
extreme point;the point located farthest from the middle of something
iceberg;a large mass of ice floating at sea. usually broken off of a polar glacier
rostrum;a platform raised above the surrounding level to give prominence to the person on it
state boundary;the boundary between two states
sea bottom;the bottom of a sea or oceanthe bottom of a sea or ocean
waterside;land bordering a body of water
volcano;a mountain formed by volcanic material
bathyal district;the steep descent of the seabed from the continental shelf to the abyssal zone
lee;the side of something that is sheltered from the wind
air;"the region above the ground. 'her hand stopped in mid air'. 'the hanged man danced on air'"
mason dixon line;the boundary between maryland and pennsylvania. symbolic dividing line between north and south before the civil war
llullaillaco;a mountain in the andes on the border between argentina and chile (22,057 feet high)
kamet;a mountain in the himalayas in northern india (25,450 feet high)
black hills;mountains in southwestern south dakota and northeastern wyoming. sacred to the sioux (whites settling in the black hills led to the battle of little bighorn). site of mount rushmore
polar glacier;a glacier near the arctic or antarctic poles
board;a flat portable surface (usually rectangular) designed for board games. 'he got out the board and set up the pieces'
tiptoe;the tip of a toe
oil water interface;an interface forming the boundary between the non-miscible liquids oil and water
aeolia;ancient name for the coastal region of northwestern asia minor (including lesbos)
lake bottom;the bottom of a lake
city limit;the limits of the area occupied by a city or town
basin;a natural depression in the surface of the land with a lake at the bottom of it. 'the basin of the great salt lake'
microscope stage;a small platform on a microscope where the specimen is mounted for examination
fujiyama;an extinct volcano in south central honshu. last erupted in 1707. famous for its symmetrical snow-capped peak
rock of gibraltar;a limestone promontory at the southern tip of spain. controlled by britain. strategically important because it can control the entrance of ships into the mediterranean
dapsang;a mountain peak in the karakoram range in northern kashmir. the 2nd highest peak in the world (28,250 feet high)
sphere;the apparent surface of the imaginary sphere on which celestial bodies appear to be projected
wedge;a heel that is an extension of the sole of the shoe
brae;(scotland) a slope or hillside
borderline;a line that indicates a boundary
midway islands;an atoll in the hawaiian islands some 1300 mile northwest of honolulu. site of an important united states naval base
stage setting;the arrangement of scenery and properties to represent the place where a play or movie is enacted
rift valley;a valley with steep sides. formed by a rift in the earth's crust
seabed;the bottom of a sea or oceanthe bottom of a sea or ocean
lee side;the side of something that is sheltered from the wind
atoll;an island consisting of a circular coral reef surrounding a lagoon
hole;a depression hollowed out of solid matter
hollow;a small valley between mountains. 'he built himself a cabin in a hollow high up in the appalachians'
oceanfront;land bordering an ocean
ridge;a long narrow range of hills
footplate;(british) the platform in the cab of a locomotive on which the engineer stands to operate the controls
dartboard;a circular board of wood or cork used as the target in the game of darts
pissis;a mountain in the andes in argentina (22,241 feet high)
bedside;space by the side of a bed (especially the bed of a sick or dying person). 'the doctor stood at her bedside'
orlop;the fourth or lowest deck
kunlun mountains;a mountain range in china
colima;an active volcano in southwestern mexico
cutting edge;the sharp cutting side of the blade of a knife
himalaya mountains;a mountain range extending 1500 miles on the border between india and tibet. this range contains the world's highest mountain
innersole;the inner sole of a shoe or boot
shank;the part of the shoe connecting the heel and the wide part of the sole
guyot;a seamount of volcanic origin (especially in the pacific ocean)
mt. rushmore;a mountain in the black hills of south dakota. site of the likenesses of washington and jefferson and lincoln and roosevelt carved on it
dry wash;(western united states) the dry bed of an intermittent stream (as at the bottom of a canyon)
trailing edge;the rear edge of an airfoil
leeward;the side of something that is sheltered from the wind
pate;the top of the head
scruff;the back side of the neck
third deck;the deck below the main deck
nevado de colima;an active volcano in southwestern mexico
water level;underground surface below which the ground is wholly saturated with water: 'spring rains had raised the water table'
shipside;the part of a wharf that is next to a ship
bell deck;a floor under the bells of an open belfry
poll;the top of the head
skin;an outer surface (usually thin). 'the skin of an airplane'
sanitary landfill;a low area where waste is buried between layers of earth
fluke;a barb on a harpoon or arrow
sandpit;a large pit in sandy ground from which sand is dug
broadside;the whole side of a vessel from stem to stern. 'the ship was broadside to the dock'
masthead;the head or top of a mast
calpe;a limestone promontory at the southern tip of spain. controlled by britain. strategically important because it can control the entrance of ships into the mediterranean
ozarks;an area of low mountains in northwestern arkansas and southeastern missouri and northeastern oklahoma
fuji;an extinct volcano in south central honshu. last erupted in 1707. famous for its symmetrical snow-capped peak
bow;front part of a vessel or aircraft. 'he pointed the bow of the boat toward the finish line'
writing board;a wide light-weight board that can be placed across the lap and used for writing
stacked heel;a heel made of many layers of leather
bottom;a depression forming the ground under a body of water. 'he searched for treasure on the ocean bed'
mount parnassus;a mountain in central greece where (according to greek mythology) the muses lived. known as the mythological home of music and poetry. 'liakoura is the modern name of mount parnassus'
pobedy peak;a mountain peak in the tien shan mountains in northern india (24,406 feet high)
mount orizaba;an extinct volcano in s mexico between mexico city and veracruz. the highest peak in mexico (18,695 feet)
littoral;the region of the shore of a lake or sea or ocean
bilges;in a vessel with two hulls, an enclosed area between the frames at each side
rifle range;the distance that a rifle bullet will carry. 'the target was out of rifle range'
ardennes;a wooded plateau in the champagne-ardenne region of france. the site of intense fighting in world wars i and ii
river bottom;a channel occupied (or formerly occupied) by a river
coast mountains;a string of mountain ranges along the pacific coast of north america from southeastern alaska to lower california
sierra;a range of mountains (usually with jagged peaks and irregular outline)
stump;a platform raised above the surrounding level to give prominence to the person on it
scaffold;a platform from which criminals are executed (hanged or beheaded)
barrier reef;a long coral reef near and parallel to the shore
mason and dixon s line;the boundary between maryland and pennsylvania. symbolic dividing line between north and south before the civil war
cachi;a mountain in the andes in argentina (22,047 feet high)
peak;"the top point of a mountain or hill. 'the view from the peak was magnificent'. 'they clambered to the summit of monadnock'"
muz tagh ata;a mountain peak in the kunlun range in china (24,760 feet high)
inside;the inner or enclosed surface of something
landing;an intermediate platform in a staircase
klyuchevskaya;an inactive volcano on the kamchatka peninsula. last erupted in 1946
molehill;a mound of earth made by moles while burrowing
top;"the upper part of anything. 'the mower cuts off the tops of the grass'. 'the title should be written at the top of the first page'"
nanga parbat;a mountain in the himalayas in kashmir (26,660 feet high)
bandstand;a platform where a (brass) band can play in the open air
cwm;a steep-walled semicircular basin in a mountain. may contain a lake
rakaposhi;a mountain peak in the karakoram range in northern kashmir (25,560 feet high)
cant;two surfaces meeting at an angle different from 90 degrees
tirich mir;a mountain in the hindu kush in pakistan (25,230 feet high)
dial;the face of a timepiece. graduated to show the hours
promenade deck;a deck at the top of a passenger ship
bonanza;an especially rich vein of precious ore
formation;"the geological features of the earth"
ural mountains;a mountain range in western russia extending from the arctic to the caspian sea. forms part of the traditional boundary between europe and asia
ice field;a flat mass of ice floating at sea
proscenium;the part of a modern theater stage between the curtain and the orchestra (ie, in front of the curtain)
kunlun;a mountain range in china
cascades;a mountain range in the northwestern united states extending through washington and oregon and northern california. a part of the coast range
balkan mountain range;the major mountain range of bulgaria and the balkan peninsula
tarmacadam;a surface paved with compressed layers of broken rocks held together with tar
appalachian mountains;a mountain range in the eastern united states extending from quebec to the gulf of mexico. a historic barrier to early westward expansion of the united states
chimborazo;a mountain peak in the andes in ecuador (20,560 feet high)
landfall;the seacoast first sighted on a voyage (or flight over water)
spearhead;the sharpened point of a spear
matterhorn;a mountain in the alps on the border between switzerland and italy (14,780 feet high). noted for its distinctive shape
mt. olympus;a mountain in northeast greece near the aegean coast. believed by ancient greeks to be the dwelling place of the gods (9,570 feet high)
mt etna;an inactive volcano in sicily. last erupted in 1961. the highest volcano in europe (10,500 feet)
rushmore;a mountain in the black hills of south dakota. site of the likenesses of washington and jefferson and lincoln and roosevelt carved on it
parnassus;a mountain in central greece where (according to greek mythology) the muses lived. known as the mythological home of music and poetry. 'liakoura is the modern name of mount parnassus'
slope;an elevated geological formation. 'he climbed the steep slope'. 'the house was built on the side of the mountain'
crest;"the top point of a mountain or hill. 'the view from the peak was magnificent'. 'they clambered to the summit of monadnock'"
massif;a block of the earth's crust bounded by faults and shifted to form peaks of a mountain range
state line;the boundary between two states
geological formation;"the geological features of the earth"
roof of the mouth;the upper surface of the mouth that separates the oral and nasal cavities
spike heel;a very high narrow heel on women's shoes
city limits;the limits of the area occupied by a city or town
mount kilimanjaro;the highest peak in africa. located in northeastern tanzania. 19,340 feet high
freeboard deck;the uppermost watertight deck
maximum;the point on a curve where the tangent changes from positive on the left to negative on the right
lower limit;the limit on the lower (or southernmost) side of something
ravine;a deep narrow steep-sided valley (especially one formed by running water)
acclivity;an upward slope or grade (as in a road). 'the car couldn't make the grade'
burrow;a hole in the ground made by an animal for shelter
bound;"a line determining the limits of an area"
level;a flat surface at right angles to a plumb line. 'park the car on the level'
outflow;a natural flow of ground water
margin;the boundary line or the area immediately inside the boundary
changtzu;a mountain in the central himalayas on the border of tibet and nepal (24,780 feet high)
cotswolds;a range of low hills in southwestern england
wing;a stage area out of sight of the audience
bourne;an archaic term for a boundary
front;the side that is forward or prominent
bridge deck;where ship is steered and captain stands
upland;elevated (e.g., mountainous) land
hilltop;the peak of a hill. 'the sun set behind the brow of distant hills'
cotacachi;an andean volcano in northern ecuador. last erupted in 1955
back end;the side of an object that is opposite its front. 'his room was toward the rear of the hotel'
demarcation line;the boundary of a specific area
sands;the region of the shore of a lake or sea or ocean
diamond point;a very hard small point made from a diamond
dance floor;a bare floor polished for dancing
dais;a platform raised above the surrounding level to give prominence to the person on it
alp;any high mountain
ridge;a long narrow natural elevation or striation
capitol hill;a hill in washington, d.c., where the capitol building sits and congress meets. 'they are debating the budget today on capital hill'
makalu;a mountain in the himalayas in nepal (27,790 feet high)
valley;a long depression in the surface of the land that usually contains a river
volcan de colima;an active volcano in southwestern mexico
bourn;an archaic term for a boundary
fly bridge;the highest navigational bridge on a ship. a small (often open) deck above the pilot house
copernicus;a conspicuous crater on the moon
mount whitney;the highest peak in the sierra nevada range in california (14,495 feet high)
fringe;the outside boundary or surface of something
saltpan;a shallow basin in a desert region. contains salt and gypsum that was deposited by an evaporated salt lake
boundary;"a line determining the limits of an area"
interior;the inner or enclosed surface of something
grand canyon;the enormous gorge of the colorado river in northern arizona
cribbage board;a board with pegs and regularly spaced holes for holding the pegs. used for keeping the score in a game of cribbage
appalachians;a mountain range in the eastern united states extending from quebec to the gulf of mexico. a historic barrier to early westward expansion of the united states
divot;(golf) the cavity left when a piece of turf is cut from the ground by the club head in making a stroke. 'it was a good drive but the ball ended up in a divot'
anapurna;a mountain in the himalayas in nepal (26,500 feet high)
mount ararat;the mountain peak that noah's ark landed on as the waters of the great flood receded
positive pole;the north-seeking pole of a magnet
the alps;a large mountain system in south-central europe. scenic beauty and winter sports make them a popular tourist attraction
cape hatteras;a promontory on hatteras island off the atlantic coast of north carolina. 'frequent storms drive ships to their destruction on cape hatteras'
mouth;the point where a stream issues into a larger body of water. 'new york is at the mouth of the hudson'
gasherbrum;a mountain in northern kashmir (26,470 feet high)
terrace;a shelf of rock with steep slopes above and below
border;the boundary of a surface
blue;the sky as viewed during daylight. 'he shot an arrow into the blue'
ocean bottom;the bottom of a sea or oceanthe bottom of a sea or ocean
caucasus;the mountain range in caucasia between the black sea and the caspian sea that forms part of the traditional border between europe and asia
palate;the upper surface of the mouth that separates the oral and nasal cavities
kwajalein;world war ii (january 1944). american forces landed and captured a japanese air base
crater;a bowl-shaped depression formed by the impact of a meteorite or bomb
downhill;the downward slope of a hill
chain;a series of hills or mountains. 'the valley was between two ranges of hills'. 'the plains lay just beyond the mountain range'
sinkhole;a depression in the ground communicating with a subterranean passage (especially in limestone) and formed by solution or by collapse of a cavern roof
flume;a narrow gorge with a stream running through it
capitulum;the upper branches and leaves of a tree
rooftop;the top of a (usually flat) roof
nose;the front or forward projection of a tool or weapon. 'he ducked under the nose of the gun'
everest;a mountain in the central himalayas on the border of tibet and nepal. the highest mountain peak in the world (29,028 feet high)
outdoor stage;a platform where a (brass) band can play in the open air
trench;a long steep-sided depression in the ocean floor
tip;the extreme end of something. especially something pointed
magnetic pole;one of the two ends of a magnet where the magnetism seems to be concentrated
footboard;a narrow platform on which to stand or brace the feet
end;either extremity of something that has length: 'the end of the pier'. 'she knotted the end of the thread'. 'they had reached the end of the road'
dockside;the region adjacent to a boat dock
sky;outer space as viewed from the earth
superficies;outer surface of an area or a body
lakeside;the shore of a lake
surface;the extended two-dimensional outer boundary of a three-dimensional object. 'they skimmed over the surface of the water'. 'a brush small enough to clean every dental surface'. 'the sun has no distinct surface'
pegboard;a board perforated with regularly spaced holes into which pegs can be fitted
abyssal zone;the deep sea (2000 meters or more) where there is no light
 godwin austen;a mountain peak in the karakoram range in northern kashmir. the 2nd highest peak in the world (28,250 feet high)
hindu kush mountains;a mountain range extending west of the himalayas
stairhead;the top of a staircase
highland;elevated (e.g., mountainous) land
mount vesuvius;a volcano in southwestern italy on the mediterranean coast. erupted in 79 ad and buried pompeii. last erupted in 1944
incline;an elevated geological formation. 'he climbed the steep slope'. 'the house was built on the side of the mountain'
davy jones;the bottom of a sea or oceanthe bottom of a sea or ocean
kinchinjunga;a mountain the himalayas on the border between nepal and tibet (28,146 feet high)
mount st. helens;an active volcano in the cascade range in southwestern washington state. erupted violently in 1980 after 123 years of inactivity
cirque;a steep-walled semicircular basin in a mountain. may contain a lake
deckle edge;rough edge left by a deckle on handmade paper or produced artificially on machine-made paper
arete;a sharp narrow ridge found in rugged mountains
hummock;a small natural hill
conning tower;a raised bridge on a submarine. often used for entering and exiting
shelf;a projecting ridge on a mountain or submerged under water
vesuvius;a volcano in southwestern italy on the mediterranean coast. erupted in 79 ad and buried pompeii. last erupted in 1944
muztagh ata;a mountain peak in the kunlun range in china (24,760 feet high)
mise en scene;the arrangement of scenery and properties to represent the place where a play or movie is enacted
poop;the rear part of a ship
mt orizaba;an extinct volcano in s mexico between mexico city and veracruz. the highest peak in mexico (18,695 feet)
clock face;the face of a clock showing hours and minutes of the day
lip;the top edge of a vessel
earreach;the range within which a voice can be heard. 'the children were told to stay within earshot'
dune;a ridge of sand created by the wind. found in deserts or near lakes and oceans
demavend;an active volcano in northern iran
seashore;the shore of a sea or ocean
larboard;the left side of a ship or aircraft to someone facing the bow or nose
nose;a front that resembles a human nose (especially the front of an aircraft). 'the nose of the rocket heated up on reentry'
mount;a land mass that projects well above its surroundings. higher than a hill
cant;a slope in the turn of a road or track. the outside is higher than the inside in order to reduce the effects of centrifugal force
landfill;a low area that has been filled in
natural depression;a sunken or depressed geological formation
olympus;a mountain in northeast greece near the aegean coast. believed by ancient greeks to be the dwelling place of the gods (9,570 feet high)
top;the highest or uppermost side of anything. 'put your books on top of the desk'. 'only the top side of the box was painted'
ripple mark;one of a series of small ridges produced in sand by water currents or by wind
border;the boundary line or the area immediately inside the boundary
brink;a region marking a boundary
tail;the reverse side that does not bear the representation of a person's head
ice mass;a large mass of ice
depth;"(usually plural) the deepest and most remote part. 'from the depths of darkest africa'. 'signals received from the depths of space'"
mt. everest;a mountain in the central himalayas on the border of tibet and nepal. the highest mountain peak in the world (29,028 feet high)
bank;a long ridge or pile. 'a huge bank of earth'
blue sky;the sky as viewed during daylight. 'he shot an arrow into the blue'
center line;"a line that bisects a plane figure"
ben;(in scotland or ireland) a mountain or tall hill. 'they were climbing the ben'
tonsure;the shaved crown of a monk's or priest's head
face;a vertical surface of a building or cliff
kuenlun;a mountain range in china
annapurna;a mountain in the himalayas in nepal (26,500 feet high)
mt. st. helens;an active volcano in the cascade range in southwestern washington state. erupted violently in 1980 after 123 years of inactivity
sierra nevada;a mountain range in eastern california. contains mount whitney
shelter deck;a deck having no overhead protection from the weather, but sheltering the deck below
andes;a mountain range in south america running 5000 miles along the pacific coast
paving;the paved surface of a thoroughfare
continental shelf;the relatively shallow (up to 200 meters) seabed surrounding a continent
storefront;the side of a store facing the street. usually contains display windows
climb;an upward slope or grade (as in a road). 'the car couldn't make the grade'
foreshore;the part of the seashore between the high-water and and low-water marks
wrestling ring;a ring in which wrestlers compete
mount saint helens;an active volcano in the cascade range in southwestern washington state. erupted violently in 1980 after 123 years of inactivity
stern;the rear part of a ship
main deck;the uppermost sheltered deck that runs the entire length of a large vessel
crown;the upper branches and leaves of a tree
continental glacier;a glacier that spreads out from a central mass of ice
limit;as far as something can go
wadi;gully or streambed in north africa and the middle east that remains dry except during rainy season
south side;the side that is on the south
back;the side that goes last or is not normally seen. 'he wrote the date on the back of the photograph'
property line;the boundary line between two pieces of property
paved surface;a horizontal surface covered with paving material
beam ends;(nautical) at the ends of the transverse deck beams of a vessel. 'on her beam-ends' means heeled over on the side so that the deck is almost vertical
pico de orizaba;an extinct volcano in s mexico between mexico city and veracruz. the highest peak in mexico (18,695 feet)
fountain of youth;a fountain described in folk tales as able to make people young again. 'ponce de leon discovered florida while searching for the fountain of youth'
wash;(western united states) the dry bed of an intermittent stream (as at the bottom of a canyon)
jacket crown;an artificial crown fitted over a broken or decayed tooth
gully;deep ditch cut by running water (especially after a prolonged downpour)
ascent;an upward slope or grade (as in a road). 'the car couldn't make the grade'
gibraltar;a limestone promontory at the southern tip of spain. controlled by britain. strategically important because it can control the entrance of ships into the mediterranean
bank;a slope in the turn of a road or track. the outside is higher than the inside in order to reduce the effects of centrifugal force
geyser;a spring that discharges hot water and steam
aquifer;underground bed or layer yielding ground water for wells and springs etc
top;platform surrounding the head of a lower mast
hillock;a small natural hill
cotopaxi;the world's largest active volcano. located in the andes in north central ecuador
pad;a platform from which rockets or space craft are launched
foreland;a natural elevation (especially a rocky one that just out into the sea)
monte bianco;the highest mountain peak in the alps. on the border between france and italy south of geneva (15,781 feet high)
extremity;"the outermost or farthest region or point"
minimum;the point on a curve where the tangent changes from negative on the left to positive on the right
port;the left side of a ship or aircraft to someone facing the bow or nose
dingle;a small wooded hollow
allegheny mountains;the western part of the appalachian mountains. extending from northern pennsylvania to southwestern virginia
coast range;a string of mountain ranges along the pacific coast of north america from southeastern alaska to lower california
the hill;a hill in washington, d.c., where the capitol building sits and congress meets. 'they are debating the budget today on capital hill'
eyeshot;the range of the eye. 'they were soon out of view'
cuban heel;a broad medium-high heel on women's shoes
verge;a region marking a boundary
summit;"the top point of a mountain or hill. 'the view from the peak was magnificent'. 'they clambered to the summit of monadnock'"
railhead;the end of the completed track on an unfinished railway
mountainside;the side or slope of a mountain
mount elbert;the highest peak in the rocky mountains in central colorado (14,431 feet high)
silver screen;a white or silvered surface where pictures can be projected for viewing
lakefront;land bordering a lake
district line;the boundary between two districts
sand bar;a bar of sand
lapboard;used on the lap as a table or desk
firmament;the apparent surface of the imaginary sphere on which celestial bodies appear to be projected
apron;where aircraft stand while not being used
side;"a place within a region identified relative to a center or reference location. 'they always sat on the right side of the church'. 'he never left my side'"
peak;the highest point of something
mt. vesuvius;a volcano in southwestern italy on the mediterranean coast. erupted in 79 ad and buried pompeii. last erupted in 1944
glen;(scottish) a narrow secluded valley (in the mountains)
topside;(usually plural) the part of a ship's hull that is above the waterline
holler;a small valley between mountains. 'he built himself a cabin in a hollow high up in the appalachians'
urals;a mountain range in western russia extending from the arctic to the caspian sea. forms part of the traditional boundary between europe and asia
bank;sloping land (especially the slope beside a body of water). 'they pulled the canoe up on the bank'. 'he sat on the bank of the river and watched the currents'
head;(usually plural) an obverse side of a coin that bears the representation of a person's head. 'call heads or tails!'
curb;an edge between a sidewalk and a roadway consisting of a line of curbstones (usually forming part of a gutter)
flying bridge;the highest navigational bridge on a ship. a small (often open) deck above the pilot house
tip;"the top point of a mountain or hill. 'the view from the peak was magnificent'. 'they clambered to the summit of monadnock'"
camfer;two surfaces meeting at an angle different from 90 degrees
rifle shot;the distance that a rifle bullet will carry. 'the target was out of rifle range'
gorge;a deep ravine (usually with a river running through it)
waist;the part of the shoe connecting the heel and the wide part of the sole
adirondack mountains;a mountain range in northeastern new york state. a popular resort area
creek bed;a channel occupied (or formerly occupied) by a stream
depression;a sunken or depressed geological formation
bound;the line or plane indicating the limit or extent of something
mauna loa;an active volcano on south central hawaii island
krakatau;a small volcanic island in indonesia between java and sumatra. its violent eruption in 1883 was the greatest in recorded history
coral reef;a reef consisting of coral consolidated into limestone
nose cone;conical head of a missile or rocket that protects the payload from heat during its passage through the atmosphere
lhotse;a mountain in the central himalayas on the border of tibet and nepal (27,890 feet high)
side;an elevated geological formation. 'he climbed the steep slope'. 'the house was built on the side of the mountain'
aristarchus;a bright crater on the moon
bar;a submerged (or partly submerged) ridge in a river or along a shore
precipice;a very steep cliff
fountain;a natural flow of ground water
chain of mountains;a series of hills or mountains. 'the valley was between two ranges of hills'. 'the plains lay just beyond the mountain range'
drop off;a steep high face of rock
mount logan;a mountain peak in the saint elias range in the southwestern yukon territory in canada (19,850 feet high)
alleghenies;the western part of the appalachian mountains. extending from northern pennsylvania to southwestern virginia
frontage;the face or front of a building
sierra nevada mountains;a mountain range in eastern california. contains mount whitney
mountain;a land mass that projects well above its surroundings. higher than a hill
forepart;the side that is forward or prominent
barb;a subsidiary point facing opposite from the main point that makes an object hard to remove
teton range;a mountain range in northwest wyoming. contains the grand teton
mauna kea;an active volcano on north central hawaii island. highest peak in the hawaiian islands
natural elevation;a raised or elevated geological formation
orlop deck;the fourth or lowest deck
floor;the inside lower horizontal surface (as of a room or hallway). 'they needed rugs to cover the bare floors'
rear;the side of an object that is opposite its front. 'his room was toward the rear of the hotel'
sinai;a mountain peak in the southern sinai peninsula (7,500 feet high). it is believed to be the peak on which moses received the ten commandments
mount everest;a mountain in the central himalayas on the border of tibet and nepal. the highest mountain peak in the world (29,028 feet high)
skidpan;(british) a surface on which cars can be made to skid so that drivers can practice controlling them
flybridge;the highest navigational bridge on a ship. a small (often open) deck above the pilot house
downslope;a downward slope
blue air;the sky as viewed during daylight. 'he shot an arrow into the blue'
tupungato;a mountain in the andes on the border between argentina and chile (22,310 feet high)
outpouring;a natural flow of ground water
warren;a series of connected underground tunnels occupied by rabbits
fourth deck;the fourth or lowest deck
taxi strip;a paved strip used by planes taxiing to or from the runway at an airport
tupungatito;an inactive volcano in central chile. last erupted in 1959
forefront;the part in the front or nearest the viewer. 'he was in the forefront'. 'he was at the head of the column'
ojos del salado;a mountain in the andes on the border between argentina and chile (22,572 feet high)
bed;a depression forming the ground under a body of water. 'he searched for treasure on the ocean bed'
poll;the part of the head between the ears
demarcation;the boundary of a specific area
brink;the edge of a steep place
mustagh;a mountain range in northern kashmir. an extension of the hindu kush. contains the 2nd highest peak
half sole;extending from the shank to the toe
descent;a downward slope
work surface;a horizontal surface for supporting objects used in working or playing games
launchpad;a platform from which rockets or space craft are launched
yardarm;either end of the yard of a square-rigged ship
flooring;the inside lower horizontal surface (as of a room or hallway). 'they needed rugs to cover the bare floors'
monkey bridge;a high narrow platform above a deck or in an engine room or boiler room
foot;the lower part of anything. 'curled up on the foot of the bed'. 'the foot of the page'. 'the foot of the list'. 'the foot of the mountain'
camber;a slope in the turn of a road or track. the outside is higher than the inside in order to reduce the effects of centrifugal force
dell;a small wooded hollow
barbary coast;the mediterranean coast of north africa that was famous for its moorish pirates
knife edge;the sharp cutting side of the blade of a knife
tableland;a flat highland
decline;a downward slope
hand;a position given by its location to the side of an object. 'objections were voiced on every hand'
canyonside;the steeply sloping side of a canyon
chuckhole;a pit or hole produced by wear or weathering (especially in a road surface)
overhead;(nautical) the top surface of an enclosed space on a ship
insole;the inner sole of a shoe or boot
launch pad;a platform from which rockets or space craft are launched
parquet floor;a floor made of parquetry
hairline;the natural margin formed by hair on the head
st. elias range;a range of mountains between alaska and the yukon territory
litoral;the region of the shore of a lake or sea or ocean
k2;a mountain peak in the karakoram range in northern kashmir. the 2nd highest peak in the world (28,250 feet high)
tien shan;a major mountain range of central asia. extends 1,500 miles
end;the surface at either extremity of a three-dimensional object: 'one end of the box was marked 'this side up''
checkerboard;a board having 64 squares of two alternating colors
hindu kush;a mountain range extending west of the himalayas
north peak;19,370 feet high
fall;a downward slope
fuji san;an extinct volcano in south central honshu. last erupted in 1707. famous for its symmetrical snow-capped peak
mont blanc;the highest mountain peak in the alps. on the border between france and italy south of geneva (15,781 feet high)
shoreline;a boundary line between land and water
delimitation;a line that indicates a boundary
crown;the center of a cambered road
galeras;an active volcano in southeastern colombia in the andes
turntable;a rotatable platform with a track. used to turn locomotives and cars
golgotha;a hill near jerusalem where jesus was crucified
afterdeck;abaft of midships
foothill;a relatively low hill on the lower slope of a mountain
backstage;a stage area out of sight of the audience
mountain peak;the summit of a mountain
west side;the side that is on the west
boundary line;a line that indicates a boundary
collector;a crater that has collected cosmic material hitting the earth
end;a boundary marking the extremities of something: 'the end of town'
wineglass heel;a heel on a woman's shoe in the shape of a wineglass
fore;front part of a vessel or aircraft. 'he pointed the bow of the boat toward the finish line'
continental slope;the steep descent of the seabed from the continental shelf to the abyssal zone
tor;a high rocky hill
kopje;(south africa) a small hill rising up from the african veld
tarmac;a surface paved with compressed layers of broken rocks held together with tar
bezel;a sloping edge on a cutting tool
mull;a term used in scottish names of promontories. 'the mull of kintyre'
draw;a gully that is shallower than a ravine
fence line;a boundary line created by a fence
boxing ring;the ring where boxers fight
huascaran;a mountain in the andes in peru (22,205 feet high)
lakeshore;the shore of a lake
face;the striking or working surface of an implement
stage;a small platform on a microscope where the specimen is mounted for examination
rabbit burrow;a hole in the ground as a nest made by wild rabbits
pobeda peak;a mountain peak in the tien shan mountains in northern india (24,406 feet high)
olimbos;a mountain in northeast greece near the aegean coast. believed by ancient greeks to be the dwelling place of the gods (9,570 feet high)
mason and dixon line;the boundary between maryland and pennsylvania. symbolic dividing line between north and south before the civil war
base;"the bottom or lowest part. 'the base of the mountain'"
mount godwin austen;a mountain peak in the karakoram range in northern kashmir. the 2nd highest peak in the world (28,250 feet high)
fuego;a volcano in south central guatemala
quarterdeck;the stern area of a ship's upper deck
galan;a mountain peak in the andes in argentina (21,654 feet high)
florida keys;a coral reef off the southern coast of florida
krakatao;a small volcanic island in indonesia between java and sumatra. its violent eruption in 1883 was the greatest in recorded history
mount olympus;a mountain in northeast greece near the aegean coast. believed by ancient greeks to be the dwelling place of the gods (9,570 feet high)
north side;the side that is on the north
negative magnetic pole;the south-seeking pole of a magnet
prow;front part of a vessel or aircraft. 'he pointed the bow of the boat toward the finish line'
bonete;a mountain in the andes in argentina (22,546 feet high)
ledge;a projecting ridge on a mountain or submerged under water
bluff;a high steep bank (usually formed by river erosion)
bottom;the lower side of anything
silhouette;an outline of a solid object (as cast by its shadow)
curbside;the side of a sidewalk that is bordered by a curb. 'policemen stood at intervals along the curbside'
rock bottom;the absolute bottom
ice floe;a flat mass of ice floating at sea
top;"the top point of a mountain or hill. 'the view from the peak was magnificent'. 'they clambered to the summit of monadnock'"
clock dial;the face of a clock showing hours and minutes of the day
key;a coral reef off the southern coast of florida
arrowhead;the pointed head or striking tip of an arrow
point;sharp end. 'he stuck the point of the knife into a tree'. 'he broke the point of the pencil'
head;the part in the front or nearest the viewer. 'he was in the forefront'. 'he was at the head of the column'
coalface;the part of a coal seam that is being cut
natural spring;a natural flow of ground water
vault of heaven;the apparent surface of the imaginary sphere on which celestial bodies appear to be projected
projection screen;a white or silvered surface where pictures can be projected for viewing
canyon;(north america) a ravine formed by a river in an area with little rainfall
obverse;the side of a coin or medal bearing the principal stamp or design
capital;the upper part of a column that supports the entablature
verso;the side of a coin or medal that does not bear the principal design
himalayas;a mountain range extending 1500 miles on the border between india and tibet. this range contains the world's highest mountain
reef;a submerged ridge of rock or coral near the surface of the water
blue ridge mountains;a range of the appalachians extending from pennsylvania to northern georgia
kanchanjanga;a mountain the himalayas on the border between nepal and tibet (28,146 feet high)
catskills;a range of the appalachians west of the hudson in southeastern new york. includes many popular resort areas
seaboard;the shore of a sea or ocean regarded as a resort
acme;the highest point of something
rim;the shape of a raised edge of a more or less circular object
relict;geological feature that is a remnant of a pre-existing formation after other parts have disappeared
coast;the shore of a sea or ocean
hillside;the side or slope of a hill
backside;the side of an object that is opposite its front. 'his room was toward the rear of the hotel'
face;a surface forming part of the outside of an object. 'he examined all sides of the crystal'. 'dew dripped from the face of the leaf'
negative pole;the south-seeking pole of a magnet
launching pad;a platform from which rockets or space craft are launched
county line;the boundary between two counties
corrie;a steep-walled semicircular basin in a mountain. may contain a lake
sole;the underside of footwear or a golfclub
perimeter;the boundary line or the area immediately inside the boundary
rubicon;the boundary in ancient times between italy and gaul. caesar's crossing it with his army in 49 bc was an act of war
karakoram;a mountain range in northern kashmir. an extension of the hindu kush. contains the 2nd highest peak
davy jones s locker;the bottom of a sea or oceanthe bottom of a sea or ocean
el muerto;a mountain peak in the andes on the border between argentina and chile (21,457 feet high)
coropuna;a mountain peak in the andes in peru (21,083 feet high)
threshold;a region marking a boundary
foretop;a platform at the head of a foremast
hill;a local and well-defined elevation of the land
mckinley;a mountain in south central alaska. the highest peak in north america (20,300 feet high)
mount rushmore;a mountain in the black hills of south dakota. site of the likenesses of washington and jefferson and lincoln and roosevelt carved on it
pike;a sharp point (as on the end of a spear)
bench;a shelf of rock with steep slopes above and below
barb;the pointed part of barbed wire
whitney;the highest peak in the sierra nevada range in california (14,495 feet high)
tail assembly;the rear part of an aircraft
