insanity;relatively permanent disorder of the mind
hypnosis;a state that resembles sleep but that is induced by suggestion
disorganized schizophrenia;a form of schizophrenia characterized by severe disintegration of personality including erratic speech and childish mannerisms and bizarre behavior. usually becomes evident during puberty. the most common diagnostic category in mental institutions
cloud nine;a state of extreme happiness
seeing red;a state of irritation or annoyance
borderline schizophrenia;schizophrenia characterized by mild symptoms or by some preexisting tendency to schizophrenia
hypochondriasis;chronic and abnormal anxiety about imaginary symptoms and ailments
swither;agitation resulting from active worry. 'don't get in a stew'. 'he's in a sweat about exams'
dumps;(informal) 'in the dumps'. 'have the mopes'
unbalance;a state of mental disturbance and disorientation
possession;being controlled by passion or the supernatural
humidness;wetness in the atmosphere
blissfulness;a state of extreme happiness
tailspin;loss of emotional control often resulting in emotional collapse
megalomania;a psychological state characterized by delusions of grandeur
acute schizophrenic episode;schizophrenia of abrupt onset and relatively short duration (a few weeks or months)
pink elephants;any hallucination arising from heavy drinking
alcoholic dementia;dementia observed during the last stages of severe chronic alcoholism. involves loss of memory for recent events although long term memory is intact
irrationality;the state of being irrational. lacking powers of understanding
castration anxiety;(psychoanalysis) anxiety resulting from real or imagined threats to your sexual functions. originally applied only to men but can in principal apply to women
paranoia;a psychological disorder characterized by delusions of persecution or grandeur
impatience;a lack of patience. irritation with anything that causes delay
nervousness;an uneasy state. 'he suffered an attack of nerves'
schizophrenic psychosis;any of several psychotic disorders characterized by distortions of reality and disturbances of thought and language and withdrawal from social contact
breaking point;stress at which a person breaks down or a situation becomes crucial
pseudohallucination;an image vivid enough to be a hallucination but recognized as unreal
alzheimers;a progressive form of presenile dementia that is similar to senile dementia except that it usually starts in the 40s or 50s. first symptoms are impaired memory which is followed by impaired thought and speech and finally complete helplessness
botheration;the state of being bothered
mental soundness;the healthy psychological state of someone with good judgment
humidity;wetness in the atmosphere
alzheimer s;a progressive form of presenile dementia that is similar to senile dementia except that it usually starts in the 40s or 50s. first symptoms are impaired memory which is followed by impaired thought and speech and finally complete helplessness
hebephrenia;a form of schizophrenia characterized by severe disintegration of personality including erratic speech and childish mannerisms and bizarre behavior. usually becomes evident during puberty. the most common diagnostic category in mental institutions
fugue;a dreamlike state of altered consciousness that may last for hours or days
delusion;an erroneous belief that is held in the face of evidence to the contrary
aboulia;a loss of will power
dither;an excited state of agitation. 'he was in a dither'. 'there was a terrible flap about the theft'
captivation;the state of being intensely interested (as by awe or terror)
tenseness;a state mental or emotional strain or suspense. 'he suffered from fatigue and emotional tension'
schizophrenic disorder;any of several psychotic disorders characterized by distortions of reality and disturbances of thought and language and withdrawal from social contact
nervous strain;nervousness resulting from mental stress. 'his responsibilities were a constant strain'. 'the mental strain of staying alert hour after hour was too much for him'
disturbance;an unhappy and worried mental state. 'there was too much anger and disturbance'. 'she didn't realize the upset she caused me'
dementia praecox;any of several psychotic disorders characterized by distortions of reality and disturbances of thought and language and withdrawal from social contact
tizzy;an excited state of agitation. 'he was in a dither'. 'there was a terrible flap about the theft'
hebephrenic schizophrenia;a form of schizophrenia characterized by severe disintegration of personality including erratic speech and childish mannerisms and bizarre behavior. usually becomes evident during puberty. the most common diagnostic category in mental institutions
presenile dementia;dementia with onset before the age of 65
damp;a slight wetness
turgor;"(biology) the normal rigid state of fullness of a cell or blood vessel or capillary resulting from pressure of the contents against the wall or membrane"
red scare;a period of general fear of communists
identity crisis;distress and disorientation especially in adolescence resulting from conflicting pressures and uncertainty about and one's self and one's role in society
walking on air;a state of extreme happiness
fascination;the state of being intensely interested (as by awe or terror)
sanity;normal or sound powers of mind
alzheimer s disease;a progressive form of presenile dementia that is similar to senile dementia except that it usually starts in the 40s or 50s. first symptoms are impaired memory which is followed by impaired thought and speech and finally complete helplessness
repture;a state of elated bliss
miff;a state of irritation or annoyance
megrims;an informal term for a state of depression. 'he had a bad case of the blues'
trauma;an emotional wound or shock often having long-lasting effects
unreason;the state of being irrational. lacking powers of understanding
isomerism;"the state of being an isomer. the complex of chemical and physical phenomena characteristic of isomers"
jitters;an uneasy state. 'he suffered an attack of nerves'
daftness;informal terms for insanity
snit;a state of agitated irritation. 'he was in a snit'
irritation;the psychological state of being irritated or annoyed
screaming meemies;an uneasy state. 'he suffered an attack of nerves'
autosuggestion;hypnosis induced by yourself
high spirits;a state of sustained elation. 'his high spirits told us he must have won'. 'i'm on a permanent high these days'
slough of despond;(formal) extreme depression
lather;agitation resulting from active worry. 'don't get in a stew'. 'he's in a sweat about exams'
reasonableness;the state of having good sense and sound judgment. 'his rationality may have been impaired'. 'he had to rely less on reason than on rousing their emotions'
blue funk;a state of nervous depression. 'he was in a funk'
funk;a state of nervous depression. 'he was in a funk'
dankness;unpleasant wetness
sogginess;a heavy wetness
moisture;wetness caused by water. 'drops of wet gleamed on the window'
blue devils;acute delirium caused by alcohol poisoning
reason;the state of having good sense and sound judgment. 'his rationality may have been impaired'. 'he had to rely less on reason than on rousing their emotions'
anxiety;a relatively permanent state of anxiety occurring in a variety of mental disorders
flap;an excited state of agitation. 'he was in a dither'. 'there was a terrible flap about the theft'
psychotic belief;an erroneous belief that is held in the face of evidence to the contrary
stillness;"a state of no motion or movement"
stew;agitation resulting from active worry. 'don't get in a stew'. 'he's in a sweat about exams'
strain;nervousness resulting from mental stress. 'his responsibilities were a constant strain'. 'the mental strain of staying alert hour after hour was too much for him'
hypochondria;chronic and abnormal anxiety about imaginary symptoms and ailments
anhedonia;an inability to experience pleasure
tension;a state mental or emotional strain or suspense. 'he suffered from fatigue and emotional tension'
delusions of persecution;a delusion (common in paranoia) that others are out to get you and frustrate and embarrass you or inflict suffering on you. a complicated conspiracy is frequently imagined
frame of mind;a temporary psychological state
mental health;the psychological state of someone who is functioning at a satisfactory level of emotional and behavioral adjustment
catatonic type schizophrenia;a form of schizophrenia characterized by a tendency to remain in a fixed stuporous state for long periods. the catatonia may give way to short periods of extreme excitement
overanxiety;excessive anxiety
upset;an unhappy and worried mental state. 'there was too much anger and disturbance'. 'she didn't realize the upset she caused me'
lucidity;a lucid state of mind. not confused
madness;obsolete terms for legal insanity
dampness;a slight wetness
high;a state of altered consciousness induced by alcohol or narcotics. 'they took drugs to get a high on'
high;a state of sustained elation. 'his high spirits told us he must have won'. 'i'm on a permanent high these days'
dejection;a state of melancholy depression
inactiveness;a state of no activity
seventh heaven;a state of extreme happiness
case;a specific state of mind that is temporary. 'a case of the jitters'
mopes;(informal) 'in the dumps'. 'have the mopes'
state of mind;a temporary psychological state
melancholia;extreme depression characterized by tearful sadness and irrational fears
panic;sudden mass fear and anxiety over anticipated events. 'panic in the stock market'. 'a war scare'
sweat;agitation resulting from active worry. 'don't get in a stew'. 'he's in a sweat about exams'
pother;an excited state of agitation. 'he was in a dither'. 'there was a terrible flap about the theft'
depression;a mental state characterized by a pessimistic sense of inadequacy and a despondent lack of activity
abulia;a loss of will power
acousma;an auditory hallucination of strange nonverbal sounds
senile dementia;dementia of the aged. results from degeneration of the brain in the absence of cerebrovascular disease
disorganized type schizophrenia;a form of schizophrenia characterized by severe disintegration of personality including erratic speech and childish mannerisms and bizarre behavior. usually becomes evident during puberty. the most common diagnostic category in mental institutions
fixedness;remaining in place
anxiousness;a relatively permanent state of anxiety occurring in a variety of mental disorders
psychosis;any severe mental disorder in which contact with reality is lost or highly distorted
schizophrenia;any of several psychotic disorders characterized by distortions of reality and disturbances of thought and language and withdrawal from social contact
trip;a hallucinatory experience induced by drugs. 'an acid trip'
hallucination;illusory perception
hyalinization;"the state of being hyaline or having become hyaline: 'the patient's arterioles showed marked hyalinization'"
wet;wetness caused by water. 'drops of wet gleamed on the window'
melancholy;a constitutional tendency to be gloomy and depressed
inaction;a state of no activity
annoyance;the psychological state of being irritated or annoyed
bliss;a state of extreme happiness
chromatism;hallucinatory perception of colored lights
insaneness;obsolete terms for legal insanity
blues;an informal term for a state of depression. 'he had a bad case of the blues'
morale;a state of individual psychological well-being based upon a sense of confidence and usefulness and purpose
stationariness;remaining in place
mental strain;nervousness resulting from mental stress. 'his responsibilities were a constant strain'. 'the mental strain of staying alert hour after hour was too much for him'
flakiness;informal terms for insanity
pinprick;a minor annoyance
derangement;a state of mental disturbance and disorientation
mental disease;the psychological state of someone who has emotional or behavioral problems serious enough to require psychiatric intervention
catatonia;a form of schizophrenia characterized by a tendency to remain in a fixed stuporous state for long periods. the catatonia may give way to short periods of extreme excitement
wetness;"the condition of containing or being covered by a liquid (especially water). 'he confirmed the wetness of the paint'"
lunacy;obsolete terms for legal insanity
dementia;mental deterioration of organic or functional origin
scare;sudden mass fear and anxiety over anticipated events. 'panic in the stock market'. 'a war scare'
fuss;an excited state of agitation. 'he was in a dither'. 'there was a terrible flap about the theft'
moistness;a slight wetness
rationality;the state of having good sense and sound judgment. 'his rationality may have been impaired'. 'he had to rely less on reason than on rousing their emotions'
restlessness;a lack of patience. irritation with anything that causes delay
psychological state;"a mental condition in which the qualities of a state are relatively constant even though the state itself may be dynamic. 'a manic state'"
fret;agitation resulting from active worry. 'don't get in a stew'. 'he's in a sweat about exams'
paranoic type schizophrenia;a form of schizophrenia characterized by delusions (of persecution or grandeur or jealousy). symptoms may include anger and anxiety and aloofness and doubts about gender identity. unlike other types of schizophrenia the patients are usually presentable and (if delusions are not acted on) may function in an apparently normal manner
paraphrenia;a form of schizophrenia characterized by delusions (of persecution or grandeur or jealousy). symptoms may include anger and anxiety and aloofness and doubts about gender identity. unlike other types of schizophrenia the patients are usually presentable and (if delusions are not acted on) may function in an apparently normal manner
motionlessness;"a state of no motion or movement"
elation;an exhilarating psychological state of pride and optimism. an absence of depression
agitation;a mental state of extreme emotional disturbance
enchantment;a psychological state induced by (or as if induced by) a magical incantation
saneness;normal or sound powers of mind
tilth;"the state of aggregation of soil and its condition for supporting plant growth"
huff;a state of irritation or annoyance
self suggestion;hypnosis induced by yourself
alcohol amnestic disorder;dementia observed during the last stages of severe chronic alcoholism. involves loss of memory for recent events although long term memory is intact
stress;a state mental or emotional strain or suspense. 'he suffered from fatigue and emotional tension'
immobility;remaining in place
thinking cap;a state in which one thinks
trance;a psychological state induced by (or as if induced by) a magical incantation
mental illness;the psychological state of someone who has emotional or behavioral problems serious enough to require psychiatric intervention
korsakoff s syndrome;dementia observed during the last stages of severe chronic alcoholism. involves loss of memory for recent events although long term memory is intact
paranoid schizophrenia;a form of schizophrenia characterized by delusions (of persecution or grandeur or jealousy). symptoms may include anger and anxiety and aloofness and doubts about gender identity. unlike other types of schizophrenia the patients are usually presentable and (if delusions are not acted on) may function in an apparently normal manner
delirium tremens;acute delirium caused by alcohol poisoning
dementedness;mental deterioration of organic or functional origin
nerves;an uneasy state. 'he suffered an attack of nerves'
low spirits;a state of mild depression
mental balance;the healthy psychological state of someone with good judgment
mugginess;a state of warm humidity
mental state;"a mental condition in which the qualities of a state are relatively constant even though the state itself may be dynamic. 'a manic state'"
clamminess;unpleasant wetness
senile psychosis;dementia of the aged. results from degeneration of the brain in the absence of cerebrovascular disease
korsakov s syndrome;dementia observed during the last stages of severe chronic alcoholism. involves loss of memory for recent events although long term memory is intact
vexation;the psychological state of being irritated or annoyed
catatonic schizophrenia;a form of schizophrenia characterized by a tendency to remain in a fixed stuporous state for long periods. the catatonia may give way to short periods of extreme excitement
latent schizophrenia;schizophrenia characterized by mild symptoms or by some preexisting tendency to schizophrenia
craziness;informal terms for insanity
reactive schizophrenia;schizophrenia of abrupt onset and relatively short duration (a few weeks or months)
spell;a psychological state induced by (or as if induced by) a magical incantation
self hypnosis;hypnosis induced by yourself
delusions of grandeur;a delusion (common in paranoia) that you are much greater and more powerful and influential than you really are
perturbation;an unhappy and worried mental state. 'there was too much anger and disturbance'. 'she didn't realize the upset she caused me'
ecstasy;a state of elated bliss
serration;"the condition of being serrated. 'the serrations of a city skyline'"
zoanthropy;the delusion that you have assumed the form of an animal
somatic delusion;an delusion concerning the body image or parts of the body
mental unsoundness;a state of mental disturbance and disorientation
paraphrenic schizophrenia;a form of schizophrenia characterized by delusions (of persecution or grandeur or jealousy). symptoms may include anger and anxiety and aloofness and doubts about gender identity. unlike other types of schizophrenia the patients are usually presentable and (if delusions are not acted on) may function in an apparently normal manner
