reproach;disgrace or shame. 'he brought reproach upon his family'
abasement;a low or downcast state: 'each confesson brought her into an attitude of abasement'- h.l.menchken
backseat;a secondary or inferior position or status: 'tennis has had to take a backseat while his work is so demanding'
disrepute;the state of being held in low esteem. 'your actions will bring discredit to your name'. 'because of the scandal the school has fallen into disrepute'
ninth;position nine in a countable series of things. 'going into the ninth they were a run ahead'returns the ninth element of list, using one-based addressing.
championship;the status of being a champion. 'he held the title for two years'
sixth;position six in a countable series of things
fiftieth;position 50 in a countable series of things
grade;a relative position or degree of value in a graded group: 'lumber of the highest grade'
spotlight;a focus of public attention. 'he enjoyed being in the limelight'
higher rank;higher rank than that of others especially by reason of longer service
military rating;rank in a military organization
oblivion;the state of being disregarded or forgotten
degeneracy;the state of being degenerate in mental or moral qualities
public eye;a focus of public attention. 'he enjoyed being in the limelight'
obscurity;an obscure and unimportant standing. not well known. 'he worked in obscurity for many years'
reputation;the state of being held in high esteem and honor
fifteenth;position 15 in a countable series of things
purple;of imperial status. 'he was born to the purple'
billionth;(in the u.s.) position 1,000,000,000 in a countable series of things
shame;a state of dishonor. 'one mistake brought shame to all his family'. 'suffered the ignominy of being sent to prison'
monogamousness;having one wife at a time
stress;special emphasis attached to something. 'the stress was more on accuracy than on speed'
obloquy;the state of disgrace resulting from public abuse
social status;position in a social hierarchy. 'the british are more aware of social status than americans are'
second fiddle;in a secondary position
social rank;position in a social hierarchy. 'the british are more aware of social status than americans are'
second class;not the highest rank in a classification
dukedom;the dignity or rank or position of a duke
namelessness;the state of being anonymous
gradation;relative position in a graded series: 'always a step behind'. 'subtle gradations in color'. 'keep in step with the fashions'
higher status;higher rank than that of others especially by reason of longer service
humiliation;state of disgrace or loss of self-respect
note;high status importance owing to marked superiority. 'a scholar of great eminence'
nobility;the state of being of noble birth
spinsterhood;the state of being a spinster (usually an elderly unmarried woman)
status;"the relative position or standing of things or especially persons in a society: 'he had the status of a minor'. 'the novel attained the status of a classic'. 'atheists do not enjoy a favorable position in american life'"
monandry;having one husband at a time
fourteenth;position 14 in a countable series of things
viscounty;the dignity or rank or position of a viscount or viscountess
fifth;position five in a countable series of things. 'he was fifth out of several hundred runners'
marriage;state of being husband and wife. 'a long and happy marriage'. 'god bless this union'
celibacy;"an unmarried status (as because of religious vows)"
corruptness;the state of being corrupt
military rank;rank in a military organization
noblesse;the state of being of noble birth
humbleness;the state of being humble and unimportant
earldom;the dignity or rank or position of an earl or countess
nineteenth;position 19 in a countable series of things
rating;rank in a military organization
citizenship;the status of a citizen with rights and duties
degradation;a low or downcast state: 'each confesson brought her into an attitude of abasement'- h.l.menchken
notoriety;the state of being known for some unfavorable act or quality
dishonour;a state of shame or disgrace. 'he was resigned to a life of dishonor'
stature;high level of respect gained by impressive development or achievement: 'a man of great stature'
stock;the reputation and popularity a person has. 'his stock was so high he could have been elected mayor'
primacy;the state of being first in importance
disgrace;a state of dishonor. 'one mistake brought shame to all his family'. 'suffered the ignominy of being sent to prison'
repute;the state of being held in high esteem and honor
unimportance;the state of being humble and unimportant
infamy;a state of extreme dishonor: 'a date which will live in infamy'- f.d.roosevelt. 'the name was a by-word of scorn and approbrium throughout the city'
viscountcy;the dignity or rank or position of a viscount or viscountess
exogamy;marriage to a person belonging to a tribe or group other than your own as required by custom or law
mesalliance;a marriage with a person of inferior social status
second;following the first in an ordering or series: 'he came in a close second'
seventh;position seven in a countable series of things
senior status;higher rank than that of others especially by reason of longer service
sixteenth;position 16 is a countable series of things
celebrity;the state or quality of being widely honored and acclaimed
illegitimacy;the status of being born to parents who were not married
position;"the relative position or standing of things or especially persons in a society: 'he had the status of a minor'. 'the novel attained the status of a classic'. 'atheists do not enjoy a favorable position in american life'"
intermarriage;marriage to a person belonging to a tribe or group other than your own as required by custom or law
name;a person's reputation. 'he wanted to protect his good name'
bastardy;the status of being born to parents who were not married
rank;relative status. 'his salary was determined by his rank and seniority'
glorification;a state of high honor. 'he valued glory above life itself'
accent;special importance or significance. 'the red light gave the central figure increased emphasis'. 'the room was decorated in shades of gray with distinctive red accents'
footing;status with respect to the relations between people or groups: 'on good terms with her in-laws'. 'on a friendly footing'
subservience;in a subservient state
nowhere;an insignificant place. 'he came out of nowhere'
precedence;status established in order of importance or urgency: '...its precedence as the world's leading manufacturer of pharmaceuticals'. 'national independence takes priority over class struggle'
handmaiden;in a subordinate position. 'theology should be the handmaiden of ethics'. 'the state cannot be a servant of the church'
distinction;high status importance owing to marked superiority. 'a scholar of great eminence'
college level;the level of education that college students are assumed to have attained
servant;in a subordinate position. 'theology should be the handmaiden of ethics'. 'the state cannot be a servant of the church'
fourth;following the third position. number four in a countable series
limelight;a focus of public attention. 'he enjoyed being in the limelight'
standing;social or financial or professional status or reputation: 'of equal standing'. 'a member in good standing'
widowhood;the state of being a widow who has not remarried
prestigiousness;a high standing achieved through success or influence or wealth etc.. 'he wanted to achieve power and prestige'
seventieth;position 70 in a countable series of things
marital status;the condition of being married or unmarried
seniority;higher rank than that of others especially by reason of longer service
level;a relative position or degree of value in a graded group: 'lumber of the highest grade'
command;a position of highest authority. 'the corporation has just undergone a change in command'
dishonor;a state of shame or disgrace. 'he was resigned to a life of dishonor'
station;proper or designated social situation: 'he overstepped his place'. 'the responsibilities of a man in his station'. 'married above her station'
nationality;the status of belonging to a particular nation by birth or naturalization
opprobrium;the state of disgrace resulting from public abuse
subservientness;in a subservient state
eightieth;position 80 in a countable series of things
villainage;the legal status or condition of a villein or feudal serf
sixtieth;position 60 in a countable series of things
dignity;high office or rank or station: 'he respected the dignity of the emissaries'
visibility;the state of being conspicuous
limbo;the state of being disregarded or forgotten
equality;a state of essential equality or equivalence: 'on a par with the best'
face;status in the eyes of others. 'he lost face'
leadership;the status of a leader. 'they challenged his leadership of the union'
step;relative position in a graded series: 'always a step behind'. 'subtle gradations in color'. 'keep in step with the fashions'
legal status;a status defined by law
tier;a relative position or degree of value in a graded group: 'lumber of the highest grade'
fame;favorable public reputation
esteem;the condition of being honored (esteemed or respected or well regarded). 'it is held in esteem'. 'a man who has earned high regard'
triple crown;(horse racing) a title won by a horse that can win the kentucky derby and the belmont stakes and the preakness
salience;the state of being salient
hundredth;position 100 in a countable series of things
subsidiarity;secondary importance
wedlock;state of being husband and wife. 'a long and happy marriage'. 'god bless this union'
triple crown;(baseball) an unofficial title won by a batter who leads the league in hitting average and runs batted in and home runs
thirteenth;position 13 in a countable series of things
millionth;position 1,000,000 in a countable series of things
respect;the condition of being honored (esteemed or respected or well regarded). 'it is held in esteem'. 'a man who has earned high regard'
renown;the state or quality of being widely honored and acclaimed
niche;a position particularly well suited to the person who occupies it. 'he found his niche in the academic world'
subordinateness;secondary importance
tenth;position ten in a countable series of thingsreturns the tenth element of list, using one-based addressing.
bigamy;having more than one spouse at a time
laurels;the state of being honored
prestige;a high standing achieved through success or influence or wealth etc.. 'he wanted to achieve power and prestige'
twentieth;position 20 in a countable series of things
union;state of being husband and wife. 'a long and happy marriage'. 'god bless this union'
grandness;a prominent status. 'a person of importance'
majority;the age at which a person is considered competent to manage their own affairs
paygrade;rank in a military organization
opprobrium;a state of extreme dishonor: 'a date which will live in infamy'- f.d.roosevelt. 'the name was a by-word of scorn and approbrium throughout the city'
minority;any age prior to the legal age
kingship;the dignity or rank or position of a king
reputation;notoriety for some particular characteristic. 'his reputation for promiscuity'
preeminence;high status importance owing to marked superiority. 'a scholar of great eminence'
ill fame;the state of being known for some unfavorable act or quality
degeneration;the state of being degenerate in mental or moral qualities
depth;(usually plural) a low moral state. 'he had sunk to the depths of addiction'
princedom;the dignity or rank or position of a prince
equivalence;a state of essential equality or equivalence: 'on a par with the best'
retirement;the state of being retired from one's business or occupation
precedency;status established in order of importance or urgency: '...its precedence as the world's leading manufacturer of pharmaceuticals'. 'national independence takes priority over class struggle'
prominence;the state of being prominent: widely known or eminent
eighteenth;position 18 in a countable series of things
a level;(england) the advanced level of a subject taken in school (usually two years after o level)
archidiaconate;office or position of an archdeacon
abjection;a low or downcast state: 'each confesson brought her into an attitude of abasement'- h.l.menchken
rank;position in a social hierarchy. 'the british are more aware of social status than americans are'
polygamy;having more than one wife at a time
former;the first of two or the first mentioned of two. 'tom and dick were both heroes but only the former is remembered today'
obscureness;the state of being humble and unimportant
glory;a state of high honor. 'he valued glory above life itself'
o level;(england) the basic level of a subject taken in school
fame;the state or quality of being widely honored and acclaimed
baronetcy;the rank or dignity or position of a baronet or baroness
ranking;position on a scale in relation to others in a sport
twelfth;position 12 in a countable series of things
high status;of superior status
monogyny;having one wife at a time
flag rank;the rank of a flag officer
handmaid;in a subordinate position. 'theology should be the handmaiden of ethics'. 'the state cannot be a servant of the church'
saliency;the state of being salient
bachelorhood;the state of being an unmarried man
eighth;returns the eighth element of list, using one-based addressing.position eight in a countable series of things
eminence;high status importance owing to marked superiority. 'a scholar of great eminence'
infamy;evil fame or public reputation
fortieth;position 40 in a countable series of things
stardom;the status of being acknowledged as a star: 'stardom meant nothing to her'
caste;social status or position conferred by a system based on class: 'lose caste by doing work beneath one's station'
quality;high social status. 'a man of quality'
terms;status with respect to the relations between people or groups: 'on good terms with her in-laws'. 'on a friendly footing'
lower rank;the state of being inferior
character;good repute. 'he is a man of character'
inmarriage;marriage within one's own tribe or group as required by custom or law
inferiority;the state of being inferior
third;following the second position in an ordering or series: 'a distant third'. 'he answered the first question willingly, the second reluctantly, and the third with resentment'
par;a state of essential equality or equivalence: 'on a par with the best'
lower status;the state of being inferior
ninetieth;position 90 in a countable series of things
social station;position in a social hierarchy. 'the british are more aware of social status than americans are'
regard;the condition of being honored (esteemed or respected or well regarded). 'it is held in esteem'. 'a man who has earned high regard'
priority;status established in order of importance or urgency: '...its precedence as the world's leading manufacturer of pharmaceuticals'. 'national independence takes priority over class struggle'
villeinage;the legal status or condition of a villein or feudal serf
thousandth;position 1,000 in a countable series of things
thirtieth;position 30 in a countable series of things
low status;of inferior status
legal age;the age at which a person is considered competent to manage their own affairs
pedestal;a position of great esteem (and supposed superiority). 'they put him on a pedestal'
emphasis;special importance or significance. 'the red light gave the central figure increased emphasis'. 'the room was decorated in shades of gray with distinctive red accents'
title;the status of being a champion. 'he held the title for two years'
importance;a prominent status. 'a person of importance'
number one;the first or highest in an ordering or series: 'he wanted to be the first'
cut;a step on some scale. 'he is a cut above the the rest'
honour;the state of being honored
marriage of convenience;a marriage for expediency rather than love
first;the first or highest in an ordering or series: 'he wanted to be the first'
conspicuousness;the state of being conspicuous
honor;the state of being honored
monogamy;having one wife at a time
strikingness;the state of being salient
place;proper or designated social situation: 'he overstepped his place'. 'the responsibilities of a man in his station'. 'married above her station'
disesteem;the state in which esteem has been lost
common law marriage;a marriage relationship created by agreement and cohabitation rather than by ceremony
focus;special emphasis attached to something. 'the stress was more on accuracy than on speed'
rating;standing or position on a scale
bar sinister;the status of being born to parents who were not married
anonymity;the state of being anonymous
seventeenth;position 17 in a countable series of things
polygyny;having more than one wife at a time
eleventh;position 11 in a countable series of things
polyandry;having more than one husband at a time
ignominy;a state of dishonor. 'one mistake brought shame to all his family'. 'suffered the ignominy of being sent to prison'
discredit;the state of being held in low esteem. 'your actions will bring discredit to your name'. 'because of the scandal the school has fallen into disrepute'
junior status;in a junior position
misalliance;an unsuitable marriage
nonage;any age prior to the legal age
latter;the second of two or the second mentioned of two. 'tom and dick were both heroes but only the latter is remembered today'
endogamy;marriage within one's own tribe or group as required by custom or law
matrimony;state of being husband and wife. 'a long and happy marriage'. 'god bless this union'
barony;the rank or dignity or position of a baronet or baroness
last;the last or lowest in an ordering or series. 'he was the last to leave'. 'he finished an inglorious last'
intermarriage;marriage within one's own tribe or group as required by custom or law
