nickel steel;an alloy steel containing nickel
coagulase;an enzyme that induces coagulation
nutrient agar;any culture medium that uses agar as the gelling agent
deuterium oxide;water containing a substantial proportion of deuterium atoms, used in nuclear reactors
drumlin;a mound of glacial drift
mao;an enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of many body compounds (e.g., epinephrine and norepinephrine and serotonin)
sediment;"matter deposited by water or ice or wind"
hunk;"a large piece of something without definite shape. 'a hunk of bread' or 'a lump of coal'"
alnico;an alloy used to make high-energy permanent magnets. contains aluminum and iron and nickel plus cobalt or copper or titanium
eutectoid steel;a steel that contains 0.9% carbon (the eutectic point in the iron-carbon system). a carbon steel with 0.9% carbon is pure pearlite
copper base alloy;any alloy whose principal component is copper
lick;a salt deposit that animals regularly lick
pearlite;a lamellar mixture of cementite and ferrite formed during the cooling of austenite. a micro-constituent of steel and cast iron
liquid nitrogen;nitrogen in a liquid state
electrum;an alloy of gold and silver
enzyme;any of several complex proteins that are produced by cells and act as catalysts in specific biochemical reactions
brass;an alloy of copper and zinc
composition;a mixture of ingredients
precipitant;"a substance that causes a precipitate to form"
bell metal;bronze with 3 or 4 parts copper to 1 part tin. used in making bells
mouthwash;a medicated solution used for gargling and rinsing the mouth
roughcast;a coarse plaster for the surface of external walls
babbitt metal;a alloy of tin with some copper and antimony. an anti-friction lining for bearings
carcinogen;"any substance that produces cancer"
slurry;a suspension of insoluble particles (as plaster of paris or lime or clay etc.) usually in water
invar;(trademark) an alloy of iron and nickel having a low coefficient of thermal expansion. used in tuning forks and measuring tapes and other instruments
aluminium bronze;a copper-aluminum alloy with high tensile strength and resistance to corrosion
thromboplastin;an enzyme liberated from blood platelets that converts prothrombin into thrombin as blood starts to clot
platinum black;a fine black powder of platinum. used as a catalyst in chemical reactions
globular pearlite;if steel or iron cool very slowly the cementite may occur in globules instead of in layers
alluvium;clay or slit or gravel carried by rushing streams and deposited where the stream slows down
nickel bronze;a bronze containing up to 30% nickel
fly ash;fine solid particles of ash that are carried into the air when fuel is combusted
ptyalin;an amylase secreted in saliva
silica gel;a porous form of silica that is highly absorbent
starting buffer;buffer solution at the start of a reaction
bleach liquor;a solution containing bleaching agents that is used to bleach textiles or paper pulp
silver solder;a solder that contains silver
black catechu;extract of the heartwood of acacia catechu used for dying and tanning and preserving fishnets and sails. formerly used medicinally
sour mash;a mash with optimum acidity for yeast fermentation. a mixture of old and new mash. used in distilling some whiskeys
carbon steel;steel whose characteristics are determined by the amount of carbon it contains
freezing mixture;a mixture of substances (usually salt and ice) to obtain a temperature below the freezing point of water
solid solution;a homogeneous solid that can exist over a range of component chemicals. a constituent of alloys that is formed when atoms of an element are incorporated into the crystals of a metal
soup;(informal) any composition having a consistency suggestive of soup
guinea gold;brass with enough copper to give it a reddish tint. used for plumbing pipe and other brass hardware and in cheap jewelry
agar;any culture medium that uses agar as the gelling agent
phosphor bronze;a corrosion-resistant bronze containing phosphorus. used in bearings and gears
papain;a proteolytic enzyme obtained from the unripe papaya. used as a meat tenderizer
molybdenum steel;steel containing 10-15% molybdenum. properties are similar to tungsten steel
sapropel;sludge (rich in organic matter) that accumulates at the bottom of lakes or oceans
ballast;"used to stabilize a ship or airship"
sap;a watery solution of sugars, salts, and minerals that circulates through the vascular system of a plant
suspension;a mixture in which fine particles are suspended in a fluid where they are supported by buoyancy
high brass;brass with 35% zinc
alloy steel;steel who characteristics are determined by the addition of other elements in addition to carbon
mild steel;steel with less than 0.15% carbon
sample;"a small part of something intended as representative of the whole"
gunk;"any thick messy substance"
tambac;an alloy of copper and zinc (and sometimes arsenic) used to imitate gold in cheap jewelry and for gilding
naval brass;alpha-beta brass containing tin. resistant to sea water. admiralty metal is a trademark
gilding metal;a brass that is rich in copper. used to make articles that were to be gilded
spindrift;spray blown up from the surface of the sea
monell metal;an alloy of nickel and copper and other metals (such as iron and/or manganese and/or aluminum)
water vapor;water in a vaporous form diffused in the atmosphere but below boiling temperature
gunmetal;a type of bronze used for parts subject to wear or corrosion (especially corrosion by sea water)
steam;water at boiling temperature diffused in the atmosphere
steel;an alloy of iron with small amounts of carbon and manganese. widely used in construction. mechanical properties can be varied over a wide range
thrombokinase;an enzyme liberated from blood platelets that converts prothrombin into thrombin as blood starts to clot
plasminogen;an inactive form of plasmin that occurs in plasma and is converted to plasmin by organic solvents
sea spray;spray from ocean waves
polymerase;an enzyme that catalyzes the formation of dna and rna from an existing strand of dna or rna
austenite;a solid solution of ferric carbide or carbon in iron. cools to form pearlite or martensite
deposit;"matter deposited by water or ice or wind"
heavy water;water containing a substantial proportion of deuterium atoms, used in nuclear reactors
cryogen;a liquid that boils at below -160 c and is used as a refrigerant
hyper eutectoid steel;a steel that contains more than 0.9% carbon
finishing coat;the final coat of plaster applied to walls and ceilings. 'we can't paint until they put on the finishing coat'
formalin;a 10% solution of formaldehyde in water. used as a disinfectant or to preserve biological specimens
nugget;a solid lump of a precious metal (especially gold) as found in the earth
leaded bronze;bronze to which 1-4% lead is added
eureka;a copper-nickel alloy with high electrical resistance and a low temperature coefficient. used as resistance wire
red brass;brass with enough copper to give it a reddish tint. used for plumbing pipe and other brass hardware and in cheap jewelry
moderator;any substance used to slow down neutrons in nuclear reactors
plaster;a mixture of lime or gypsum with sand and water. hardens into a smooth solid. used to cover walls and ceilings
soft cast steel;steel with less than 0.15% carbon
dilution;a diluted solution
chrome nickel steel;elinvar is a trademark for a kind of nickel-chromium steel used for watch springs because its elasticity is constant over a wide range of temperatures
ragweed pollen;pollen of the ragweed plant is a common allergen
solute;"the dissolved substance in a solution. the component of a solution that changes its state"
extract;a solution obtained by steeping or soaking a substance (usually in water)
ambrosia;a mixture of nectar and pollen prepared by worker bees and fed to larvae
plasmin;an enzyme that dissolves the fibrin of blood clots
rennin;an enzyme that occurs in gastric juice. causes milk to coagulate
britannia metal;an alloy similar to pewter
permalloy;an 80/20 alloy of nickel and iron. easily magnetized and demagnetized
histamine;stimulates gastric secretions and dilates blood vessels. released during allergic reactions
lamellar mixture;a mixture in which substances occur in distinct layers
pewter;any of various alloys of tin with small amounts of other metals (especially lead)
tombac;an alloy of copper and zinc (and sometimes arsenic) used to imitate gold in cheap jewelry and for gilding
complement;one of a series of enzymes in the blood serum that are part of the immune response
rochelle salts;a double salt used in seidlitz powder. acts as a cathartic
formol;a 10% solution of formaldehyde in water. used as a disinfectant or to preserve biological specimens
manganese steel;a steel with a relatively large component (10-14%) of manganese. highly resistant to wear and shock
double salt;a solid solution of two simple salts
soft solder;solder that melts at a relatively low temperature
inhibitor;"a substance that retards or stops an activity"
thrombin;an enzyme that acts on fibrinogen in blood causing it to clot
admiralty brass;alpha-beta brass containing tin. resistant to sea water. admiralty metal is a trademark
pargeting;used to coat outer walls and line chimneys
structural steel;a strong steel that is rolled into shapes that are used in construction
medium;"a liquid with which pigment is mixed by a painter"
quenched steel;steel that has been hardened by immersing it in water or oil to cool it
shiner;"something that shines"
chlorine water;an aqueous solution of chlorine used as a bleaching agent
compost;a mixture of decaying vegetation and manure. used as a fertilizer
grounds;sediment that has settled at the bottom of a liquid
manna;hardened suggary exudation of various trees
parget;used to coat outer walls and line chimneys
lump;"a large piece of something without definite shape. 'a hunk of bread' or 'a lump of coal'"
lipase;an enzyme secreted in the digestive tract that catalyzes the breakdown of fats
pounder;"something weighing a given number of pounds. 'the fisherman caught a 10-pounder' or 'their linemen are all 300-pounders'"
fibrinogen;a globulin present in blood plasma. converts to fibrin when blood clots
chromium steel;steel containing chromium that makes it resistant to corrosion
prothrombin;a protein in blood plasma that is the inactive precursor of thrombin
refrigerant;"a substance used to provide cooling (as in a refrigerator)"
silver protein;a colloidal preparation of protein (albumin or gelatin) and silver oxide. used in aqueous solution as an antibacterial agent
stellite;(trademark) a cobalt-base alloy with chromium and other metals. very hard. used to make cutting tools and for surfaces subject to heavy wear
eutectic;a mixture of substances having a minimum melting point
denaturant;"any substance that serves as a denaturing agent"
spray;water in small drops in the atmosphere. blown from waves or thrown up by a waterfall
babbitt;a alloy of tin with some copper and antimony. an anti-friction lining for bearings
pinchbeck;an alloy of copper and zinc that is used in cheap jewelry to imitate gold
admiralty metal;alpha-beta brass containing tin. resistant to sea water. admiralty metal is a trademark
nickel alloy;an alloy whose main constituent is nickel
beebread;a mixture of nectar and pollen prepared by worker bees and fed to larvae
ectoplasm;(in spiritualism) the substance supposed to emanate from the body of the medium during a trance
solvate;"a compound formed by solvation (the combination of solvent molecules with molecules or ions of the solute)"
hard solder;solder that contains copper. melts at a relatively high temperature. used for brazing
soda lime;a mixture of sodium and calcium hydroxides. absorbs liquids and gases
fibrinase;an enzyme that dissolves the fibrin of blood clots
gook;"any thick messy substance"
sludge;"any thick messy substance"
alpha bronze;a copper-tin alloy that can be worked
cupronickel;a 60/40 alloy of copper and nickel
dental amalgam;an alloy of metal with another metal (usually silver) used by dentists to fill cavities in teeth
constantan;a copper-nickel alloy with high electrical resistance and a low temperature coefficient. used as resistance wire
streptodornase;an enzyme produced by some hemolytic strains of streptococcus that dissolves fibrinous secretions from infections. used medicinally (often in combination with streptokinase)
ormolu;brass that looks like gold. used to decorate furniture
nickel base alloy;an alloy whose main constituent is nickel
placer;an alluvial deposit that contains particles of some valuable mineral
lees;the sediment from fermentation of an alcoholic beverage
contrast medium;a substance that is opaque to x rays. when administered orally or intravenously it allows a radiologist to examine the organ or tissue it fills
primary solid solution;a homogeneous solid that can exist over a range of component chemicals. a constituent of alloys that is formed when atoms of an element are incorporated into the crystals of a metal
aluminum bronze;a copper-aluminum alloy with high tensile strength and resistance to corrosion
spoondrift;spray blown up from the surface of the sea
liquid air;air in a liquid state
grout;a thin mortar that can be poured and used to fill cracks in masonry or brickwork
ferrocerium;a pyrophoric alloy of iron with cerium. used for lighter flints
fusible metal;an alloy with a low melting point and used as solder and in safety plugs and sprinkler fuses
emanation;"something that is produced by emanation"
colloidal solution;a colloid that has a continuous liquid phase in which a solid is suspended in a liquid
water vapour;water in a vaporous form diffused in the atmosphere but below boiling temperature
alpha brass;a brass-zinc alloy. used mainly for cold working
case hardened steel;steel with a surface that is much harder than the interior metal
pepsin;an enzyme produced in the stomach. when activated by acid it splits proteins into peptones
megilp;a medium for oil-paints. linseed oil mixed with mastic varnish or turpentine
oil hardened steel;steel that is quenched in oil
hard steel;steel with more than 0.3% carbon
vapour;a visible suspension in the air of particles of some substance
infusion;a solution obtained by steeping or soaking a substance (usually in water)
duralumin;(trademark) an aluminum-based alloy
silicon bronze;a bronze with 2-3% silicon that is resistant to corrosion
amylase;any of a group of proteins found in saliva and pancreatic juice and parts of plants. help convert starch to sugar
chrome tungsten steel;a steel alloy made with chromium and tungsten
protease;any enzyme that catalyzes the splitting of proteins into smaller peptide fractions and amino acids by a process known as proteolysis
crucible steel;steel made by the mixture of molten wrought iron, charcoal, and other substances in a crucible
zymase;a complex of enzymes that cause glycolysis. originally found in yeast but also present in higher organisms
cotton cake;the solid matter remaining after oil has been pressed from cottonseeds
oxidase;any of the enzymes that catalyze biological oxidation
transaminase;a class of enzymes that cause transamination
blood agar;a culture medium containing whole blood as the nutrient
activating agent;(mineral extraction) a surface-active chemical used in flotation process to increase the attraction to a specific mineral
yellow metal;a brass that has more zinc and is stronger than alpha brass. used in making castings and hot-worked products
bedding;"material used to provide a bed for animals"
mechanical mixture;a mixture whose components can be separated by mechanical means
carboloy;(trademark) an alloy based on tungsten with cobalt or nickel as a binder. used in making metal-cutting tools
oxygenase;an oxidoreductase that catalyzes the incorporation of molecular oxygen
ligand;"an atom or molecule or radical or ion that forms a complex around a central atom"
injection;any solution that is injected (as into the skin)
colloid;a mixture with properties between those of a solution and fine suspension
wood s metal;a fusible bismuth-base alloy. melts at about 160 degrees fahrenheit
chisel steel;steel used in making chisels
injectant;any solution that is injected (as into the skin)
toner;a solution containing chemicals that can change the color of a photographic print
brine;a strong solution of salt and water used for pickling
tobin bronze;alpha-beta brass containing tin. resistant to sea water. admiralty metal is a trademark
histaminase;catalyst in converting histidine to histamine
culture medium;"(bacteriology) a nutrient substance (solid or liquid) that is used to cultivate micro-organisms"
white gold;a pale alloy of gold usually with platinum or nickel or palladium
muck;"any thick messy substance"
emulsion;(chemistry) a colloid in which both phases are liquids. 'an oil-in-water emulsion'
coagulation factor;"any of the factors in the blood whose actions are essential for blood coagulation"
spackling compound;a plastic paste to fill cracks and holes in plaster
eluate;a liquid solution that results from elution
misch metal;a pyrophoric alloy made from a mixture of rare-earth metals
coffee grounds;the dregs remaining after brewing coffee
evaporite;the sediment that is left after the evaporation of seawater
wolfram steel;a very hard heat-resistant steel containing tungsten
coupon;a test sample of some substance
gummite;a gummy orange mixture of uranium oxides and silicates occurring naturally in the hydration and oxidation of pitchblende
paste;any mixture of a soft and malleable consistencypastes the contents of the clipboard into the view at the insertion point.
martensite;a solid solution of carbon in alpha-iron that is formed when steel is cooled so rapidly that the change from austenite to pearlite is suppressed. responsible for the hardness of quenched steel
gargle;a medicated solution used for gargling and rinsing the mouth
ash;the residue that remains when something is burned
sensitizer;(chemistry) a substance other than a catalyst that facilitates the start of a catalytic reaction. (physics) an impurity that augments luminescence in a mineral
vanadium steel;steel alloyed with vanadium for greater strength and high-temperature stability
spackle;a plastic paste to fill cracks and holes in plaster
oxyacetylene;a mixture of oxygen and acetylene. used to create high temperatures for cutting or welding metals
proteolytic enzyme;any enzyme that catalyzes the splitting of proteins into smaller peptide fractions and amino acids by a process known as proteolysis
alluvial sediment;clay or slit or gravel carried by rushing streams and deposited where the stream slows down
electrolyte;a solution that conducts electricity
tool steel;alloy steel that is suitable for making tools. is hard a tough and can retain a cutting edge
medium;"(biology) a substance in which specimens are preserved or displayed"
tungsten steel;a very hard heat-resistant steel containing tungsten
colloidal suspension;a colloid that has a continuous liquid phase in which a solid is suspended in a liquid
grinding;"matter resulting from the process of grinding. 'vegetable grindings clogged the drain'"
gel;a colloid is a more solid form than a sol
streptokinase;an enzyme produced by some strains of streptococcus that can liquefy blood clots by converting plasminogen to plasmin. used medicinally in some cases of myocardial infarction and pulmonary embolism
glutamic oxalacetic transaminase;an enzyme involved in transamination
alpha beta brass;a brass that has more zinc and is stronger than alpha brass. used in making castings and hot-worked products
fibrinolysin;an enzyme that dissolves the fibrin of blood clots
hypo eutectoid steel;a steel that contains less that 0.9% carbon
volatile;"a volatile substance. a substance that changes readily from solid or liquid to a vapor. 'it was heated to evaporate the volatiles'"
beryllium bronze;a copper-base alloy containing beryllium
oxidoreductase;an enzyme that catalyzes oxidation-reduction
system;"(physical chemistry) a sample of matter in which substances in different phases are in equilibrium. 'in a static system oil cannot be replaced by water on a surface'. 'a system generating hydrogen peroxide'"
alloy;a mixture of two or more metals or of metallic and nonmetallic elements usually fused together or dissolving into each other when molten
salt lick;a salt deposit that animals regularly lick
wood s alloy;a fusible bismuth-base alloy. melts at about 160 degrees fahrenheit
sterling silver;a silver alloy with no more than 7.5% copper
bedding material;"material used to provide a bed for animals"
residue;"matter that remains after something has been removed"
pyrophoric alloy;an alloy that emits sparks when struck or scratched with steel. used in lighter flints
isosmotic solution;a solution having the same osmotic pressure as blood
beef tea;an extract of beef (given to people who are ill)
saline;an isotonic solution of sodium chloride and distilled water
damascus steel;a hard resilient steel often decorated and used for sword blades
muntz metal;a brass that has more zinc and is stronger than alpha brass. used in making castings and hot-worked products
resuspension;a suspension after precipitation
cutting;"a piece cut off from the main part of something"
catalyst;(chemistry) a substance that initiates or accelerates a chemical reaction without itself being affected
reverse transcriptase;a polymerase that catalyzes the formation of dna using rna as a template. found especially in retroviruses
goo;"any thick messy substance"
pruning;something that has been pruned off of a plant
monoamine oxidase;an enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of many body compounds (e.g., epinephrine and norepinephrine and serotonin)
mash;a mixture of mashed malt grains and hot water. used in brewing
high speed steel;an alloy steel that remains hard at a red heat. used to make metal-cutting tools
white metal;an alloy, often of lead or tin base, used for bearings
greek fire;a mixture used by byzantine greeks that was often shot at adversaries. catches fire when wetted
austenitic manganese steel;a steel with a relatively large component (10-14%) of manganese. highly resistant to wear and shock
allergen;"any substance that can cause an allergy"
rochelle salt;a double salt used in seidlitz powder. acts as a cathartic
liquid bleach;a solution containing bleaching agents. used for laundry
grab sample;a sample grabbed at random
saline solution;an isotonic solution of sodium chloride and distilled water
bearing brass;a brass bushing or a lining for a bearing
stainless steel;steel containing chromium that makes it resistant to corrosion
tombak;an alloy of copper and zinc (and sometimes arsenic) used to imitate gold in cheap jewelry and for gilding
biocatalyst;a biochemical catalyst such as an enzyme
drift;"something heaped up by the wind or current"
ferrite;a solid solution in which alpha iron is the solvent
live steam;steam coming from a boiler at full pressure
austenitic steel;steel that has enough nickel and chromium or manganese to retain austenite at atmospheric temperatures
conjugate;a mixture of two partially miscible liquids a and b produces two conjugate solutions: one of a in b and another of b in a
accelerator;(chemistry) a substance that initiates or accelerates a chemical reaction without itself being affected
anticatalyst;(chemistry) a substance that retards a chemical reaction or diminishes the activity of a catalyst
activator;"any agency bringing about activation. (biology) a molecule that increases the activity of an enzyme or a protein that increases the production of a gene product in dna transcription"
high strength brass;a brass with from 1-4% manganese to harden it
shot metal;an alloy that is 98% lead and 2% arsenic. used in making small shot
medium;"(bacteriology) a nutrient substance (solid or liquid) that is used to cultivate micro-organisms"
chymosin;an enzyme that occurs in gastric juice. causes milk to coagulate
polyelectrolyte;an electrolyte of high molecular weight
low brass;brass with 30% (or less) zinc
guck;"any thick messy substance"
manganese bronze;a brass with from 1-4% manganese to harden it
snowdrift;a mass of snow heaped up by the wind
peptidase;any enzyme that catalyzes the splitting of proteins into smaller peptide fractions and amino acids by a process known as proteolysis
aqueous solution;a solution in water
solution;a homogeneous mixture of two or more substances. frequently (but not necessarily) a liquid solution. 'he used a solution of peroxide and water'
ooze;"any thick messy substance"
litter;"material used to provide a bed for animals"
antioxidant;substance that inhibits oxidation
inconel;(trademark) an nickel-base alloy with chromium and iron. used in gas-turbine blades
random sample;a sample grabbed at random
essence;"any substance possessing to a high degree the predominant properties of a plant or drug or other natural product from which it is extracted"
conjugate solution;a mixture of two partially miscible liquids a and b produces two conjugate solutions: one of a in b and another of b in a
vapor;a visible suspension in the air of particles of some substance
spirits of ammonia;a solution of ammonium carbonate in ammonia water and alcohol
cartridge brass;a copper-zinc alloy (containing about 30% zinc) that is wrought into cartridges or tubing
sal volatile;a solution of ammonium carbonate in ammonia water and alcohol
nickel silver;a silver-white alloy containing copper and zinc and nickel
bone ash;ash left when bones burn. high in calcium phosphate. used as fertilizer and in bone china
bovril;an extract of beef (given to people who are ill)
amalgam;an alloy of metal with another metal (usually silver) used by dentists to fill cavities in teeth
drill steel;carbon steel used for rock drills and dowels
granular pearlite;if steel or iron cool very slowly the cementite may occur in globules instead of in layers
pbs;a solution containing a phosphate buffer
metabolite;"any substance involved in metabolism (either as a product of metabolism or as necessary for metabolism)"
cheoplastic metal;any low-fusing alloy used in cheoplasty (molding artificial teeth)
low carbon steel;steel with less than 0.15% carbon
type metal;an alloy of tin and lead and antimony used to make printing type
catechu;extract of the heartwood of acacia catechu used for dying and tanning and preserving fishnets and sails. formerly used medicinally
bronze;an alloy of copper and tin and sometimes other elements. also any copper-base alloy containing other elements in place of tin
alluvial deposit;clay or slit or gravel carried by rushing streams and deposited where the stream slows down
slime;"any thick messy substance"
proteinase;any enzyme that catalyzes the splitting of proteins into smaller peptide fractions and amino acids by a process known as proteolysis
catalase;enzyme found in most plant and animal cells that functions as an oxidative catalyst. decomposes hydrogen peroxide into hydrogen and water
isotonic solution;a solution having the same osmotic pressure as blood
drill rod;carbon steel used for rock drills and dowels
phosphate buffer solution;a solution containing a phosphate buffer
ferment;"a substance capable of bringing about fermentation"
elinvar;elinvar is a trademark for a kind of nickel-chromium steel used for watch springs because its elasticity is constant over a wide range of temperatures
hot work steel;an alloy steel that remains hard at a red heat. used to make metal-cutting tools
cottonseed cake;the solid matter remaining after oil has been pressed from cottonseeds
adulterant;"any substance that adulterates (lessens the purity or effectiveness of a substance). 'it is necessary to remove the adulterants before use'"
buffer solution;a solution containing a buffer
monel metal;an alloy of nickel and copper and other metals (such as iron and/or manganese and/or aluminum)
solder;an alloy (usually of lead and tin) used when melted to join two metal surfaces
mixture;"(chemistry) a substance consisting of two or more substances mixed together (not in fixed proportions and not with chemical bonding)"
dottle;the residue of partially burnt tobacco left caked in the bowl of a pipe after smoking
nichrome;(trademark) a nickel-chromium alloy with high electrical resistance and an ability to withstand high temperatures. used for resistance heating elements
megalp;a medium for oil-paints. linseed oil mixed with mastic varnish or turpentine
damask steel;a hard resilient steel often decorated and used for sword blades
medium steel;steel with 0.15-0.3% carbon
german silver;a silver-white alloy containing copper and zinc and nickel
dregs;sediment that has settled at the bottom of a liquid
glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase;an enzyme involved in transamination
sol;a colloid that has a continuous liquid phase in which a solid is suspended in a liquid
paris green;a toxic double salt of copper arsenate and copper acetate
de iodinase;an enzyme that removes the iodine radical
stucco;a plaster now made mostly from portland cement and sand and lime. applied while soft to cover exterior walls or surfaces
dental gold;an alloy of gold used in dentistry
finish coat;the final coat of plaster applied to walls and ceilings. 'we can't paint until they put on the finishing coat'
