tip in;a shot made by tapping the rebounding ball back into the basket
one and one;a foul shot that must be made in order to earn the right to a second foul shot
optometry;the practice of an optometrist
commercialisation;the act of commercializing something
computation;"the procedure of calculating. determining something by mathematical or logical methods"
dental practice;the practice of dentistry
slapshot;a fast shot made with a short powerful swing of the hockey stick
insult;a deliberately offensive act or something producing the effect of an affront. 'turning his back on me was a deliberate insult'
modus operandi;"an unvarying or habitual method of procedure"
chess move;the act of moving a chess piece
magnetic levitation;high-speed rail technology. train is suspended on a magnetic cushion above a magnetized track and so travels free of friction
innings;the batting turn of a cricket player or team
self assertion;the act of asserting yourself in an aggressive manner
offensive activity;a lack of politeness. a failure to show regard for others
charity toss;an unhindered shot from the foul line. given to penalize the other team for committing a foul
bullying;the act of intimidating a weaker person to make them do something
whirl;a usually brief attempt. 'he took a crack at it'. 'i gave it a whirl'
aggression;deliberately unfriendly behavior
try;"earnest and conscientious activity intended to do or accomplish something: 'made an effort to cover all the reading material'. 'wished him luck in his endeavor'. 'she gave it a good try'"
mathematical process;calculation by mathematical methods. 'the problems at the end of the chapter demonstrated the mathematical processes involved in the derivation'. 'they were learning the basic operations of arithmetic'
misapplication;wrong use or application
misuse;improper or excessive use
lead;the playing of a card to start a trick in bridge. 'the lead was in the dummy'
subtraction;an arithmetic operation in which the difference between two numbers is calculated. 'the subtraction of three from four leaves one'. 'four minus three equals one'
start;a turn to be in a game at the beginning. 'he missed his starting turn because of an injury'. 'he got his start because the regular quarterback was in the hospital'
pains;an effortful attempt to attain a goal
overutilisation;exploitation to the point of diminishing returns
power play;an aggressive attempt to compel acquiescence by the concentration or manipulation of power
alcohol abuse;excessive use of alcohol and alcoholic drinks
checkmate;a move constituting an inescapable and indefensible attack on the opponent's king
starting;a turn to be in a game at the beginning. 'he missed his starting turn because of an injury'. 'he got his start because the regular quarterback was in the hospital'
best;the supreme effort one can make: 'they did their best'
occupation;"any activity that occupies a person's attention. 'he missed the bell in his occupation with the computer game'"
lay up;a shot made from a position under or beside the basket
finger roll;a shot that rolls off the tips of the fingers into the basket
scandalization;the act of scandalizing
try on;trying on clothes to see whether they fit
scuffle;an unceremonious and disorganized struggle
foray;an initial attempt (especially outside your usual areas of competence). 'scientists' forays into politics'
application;the act of bringing something to bear. using it for a particular purpose. 'he advocated the application of statistics to the problem'. 'a novel application of electronics to medical diagnosis
at bat;a turn batting (in baseball). 'he was at bat when it happened' or 'he got 4 hits in 4 at-bats'
squeeze;an aggressive attempt to compel acquiescence by the concentration or manipulation of power
audition;a test of the suitability of a performer
bear hug;a takeover bid so attractive that the directors of the target company must approve it or risk shareholder protest
provocation;unfriendly behavior that aggravates or irritates someone
intimidation;the act of intimidating a weaker person to make them do something
pilot project;activity planned as a test or trial. 'they funded a pilot project in six states'
overuse;exploitation to the point of diminishing returns
indignity;an affront to one's dignity or self-esteem
number crunching;performing complex and lengthy numerical calculations
involution;the process of raising a quantity to some assigned power
success;"an event that accomplishes its intended purpose. 'let's call heads a success and tails a failure'. 'the election was a remarkable success for republicans'"
usage;"the act of using. 'the steps were worn from years of use'"
headshot;an attempt to put the soccer ball into the net by using the head
hook;a shot made over the head with the hand that is farther from the basket
alcoholism abuse;excessive use of alcohol and alcoholic drinks
commercialization;the act of commercializing something
automotive technology;the activity of designing and constructing automobiles
technology;the practical application of science to commerce or industry
follow on;an immediate second innings forced on a cricket team scoring a prescribed number of runs fewer than it opponents in the first innings
nisus;an effortful attempt to attain a goal
capitalisation;the act of capitalizing on an opportunity
confronting;taking the bull by the horns
construction;drawing a figure satisfying certain conditions as part of solving a problem or proving a theorem. 'the assignment was to make a construction that could be used in proving the pythagorean theorem'
slam dunk;a forceful dunk
employment;"the act of using. 'the steps were worn from years of use'"
trial;the act of undergoing testing. 'he survived the great test of battle'. 'candidates must compete in a trial of skill'
bottle collection;collecting bottles for reuse
joust;a combat between two mounted knights tilting against each other with blunted lances
summation;the arithmetic operation of summing. calculating the sum of two or more numbers. 'the summation of four and three gives seven'. 'four plus three equals seven'
trying on;trying on clothes to see whether they fit
shot;an informal word for any attempt or effort. 'he gave it his best shot'
move;(games) a player's turn to move a piece or take some other permitted action
rail technology;the activity of designing and constructing and operating railroads
mathematical operation;calculation by mathematical methods. 'the problems at the end of the chapter demonstrated the mathematical processes involved in the derivation'. 'they were learning the basic operations of arithmetic'
pilot program;activity planned as a test or trial. 'they funded a pilot project in six states'
automotive engineering;the activity of designing and constructing automobiles
multiplication;an arithmetic operation that is the inverse of division. the product of two numbers is computed. 'the multiplication of four by three gives twelve'. 'four times three equals twelve'
practice;the exercise of a profession. 'the practice of the law'. 'i took over his practice when he retired'
face;the act of confronting bravely. 'he hated facing the facts'. 'he excelled in the face of danger'
water project;making an area of water more useful
snub;a refusal to recognize someone you know. 'the snub was clearly intentional'
aggro;(informal british usage) aggravation or aggression. 'i skipped it because it was too much aggro'
rat race;an exhausting routine that leaves no time for relaxation
indelicacy;an impolite act or expression
insolence;an offensive disrespectful impudent act
cold shoulder;a refusal to recognize someone you know. 'the snub was clearly intentional'
play;an attempt to get something. 'they made a futile play for power'. 'he made a bid to gain attention'
jump shot;a player releases the basketball at the high point of a jump
abuse;improper or excessive use
frightening;to inspire with fear
taunt;aggravation by deriding or mocking or criticizing
utilization;"the act of using. 'the steps were worn from years of use'"
endeavor;"earnest and conscientious activity intended to do or accomplish something: 'made an effort to cover all the reading material'. 'wished him luck in his endeavor'. 'she gave it a good try'"
effort;"earnest and conscientious activity intended to do or accomplish something: 'made an effort to cover all the reading material'. 'wished him luck in his endeavor'. 'she gave it a good try'"
gambit;a chess move early in the game in which the player sacrifices minor pieces in order to obtain an advantageous position
groove;a settled and monotonous routine that is hard to escape. 'they fell into a conversational rut'
turn;"the activity of doing something in an agreed succession. 'it is my turn' or 'it is still my play'"
taunting;aggravation by deriding or mocking or criticizing
recycling;the act of processing used or abandoned materials for use in creating new products
times;an arithmetic operation that is the inverse of division. the product of two numbers is computed. 'the multiplication of four by three gives twelve'. 'four times three equals twelve'
shot;an attempt to score in a game
division;an arithmetic operation that is the inverse of multiplication. the quotient of two numbers is computed
attempt;"earnest and conscientious activity intended to do or accomplish something: 'made an effort to cover all the reading material'. 'wished him luck in his endeavor'. 'she gave it a good try'"
free throw;an unhindered shot from the foul line. given to penalize the other team for committing a foul
play;"the activity of doing something in an agreed succession. 'it is my turn' or 'it is still my play'"
striving;an effortful attempt to attain a goal
behavior;"manner of acting or conducting oneself"
fitting;trying on clothes to see whether they fit
engineering;the practical application of science to commerce or industry
raising hell;making trouble just for the fun of it
dunk shot;a shot in which the basketball is propelled downward into the basket
charity shot;an unhindered shot from the foul line. given to penalize the other team for committing a foul
development;the act of making some area of land or water more profitable or productive or useful: 'the development of alaskan resources'. 'the exploitation of copper deposits'"the act of making some area of land or water more profitable or productive or useful: 'the development of alaskan resources'. 'the exploitation of copper deposits'"
pivot shot;a one-handed shot made while whirling on the pivot foot
tilt;a combat between two mounted knights tilting against each other with blunted lances
crack;a usually brief attempt. 'he took a crack at it'. 'i gave it a whirl'
tackling;taking the bull by the horns
aeronautical engineering;the activity of designing and constructing aircraft
long division;the operation of division in which the sequence of steps are indicated in detail
go;a usually brief attempt. 'he took a crack at it'. 'i gave it a whirl'
trumping;(cards) the act of playing a trump when unable to follow suit
exploitation;the act of making some area of land or water more profitable or productive or useful: 'the development of alaskan resources'. 'the exploitation of copper deposits'"the act of making some area of land or water more profitable or productive or useful: 'the development of alaskan resources'. 'the exploitation of copper deposits'"
casus belli;"an event used to justify starting a war"
bat;a turn batting (in baseball). 'he was at bat when it happened' or 'he got 4 hits in 4 at-bats'
godspeed;a successful journey. 'they wished him godspeed'
territoriality;the behavior of a male animal that defines and defends its territory
tryout;a test of the suitability of a performer
electrification;the act of providing electricity. 'the electrification of rural tennessee'
addition;the arithmetic operation of summing. calculating the sum of two or more numbers. 'the summation of four and three gives seven'. 'four plus three equals seven'
coping with;taking the bull by the horns
test;the act of testing something. 'in the experimental trials the amount of carbon was measured separately'. 'he called each flip of the coin a new trial'
terrorisation;to inspire with fear
capture;the removal of an opponent's piece from the chess board
bid;an attempt to get something. 'they made a futile play for power'. 'he made a bid to gain attention'
takeover attempt;an attempt to take control of a corporation
minus;an arithmetic operation in which the difference between two numbers is calculated. 'the subtraction of three from four leaves one'. 'four minus three equals one'
arithmetic operation;a mathematical operation involving numbers
digital communications technology;the design and construction of communications technology that transmits information in digital form
water development;making an area of water more useful
squeeze play;an aggressive attempt to compel acquiescence by the concentration or manipulation of power
scramble;an unceremonious and disorganized struggle
seeking;an attempt to acquire or gain something
part;any one of a number of individual efforts in a common endeavor: 'i am proud of my contribution to the team's success'. 'they all did their share of the work'
struggle;an energetic attempt to achieve something. 'getting through the crowd was a real struggle'. 'he fought a battle for recognition'
calculation;"the procedure of calculating. determining something by mathematical or logical methods"
scoop shot;a shot made with an underhand scooping motion
test;the act of undergoing testing. 'he survived the great test of battle'. 'candidates must compete in a trial of skill'
braving;taking the bull by the horns
worst;the weakest effort or poorest achievement one is capable of: 'it was the worst he had ever done on a test'
check;(chess) a direct attack on an opponent's king
fling;a usually brief attempt. 'he took a crack at it'. 'i gave it a whirl'
differentiation;the mathematical process of obtaining the derivative of a function
battle;an energetic attempt to achieve something. 'getting through the crowd was a real struggle'. 'he fought a battle for recognition'
behaviour;"manner of acting or conducting oneself"
offer;a usually brief attempt. 'he took a crack at it'. 'i gave it a whirl'
exponentiation;the process of raising a quantity to some assigned power
exercise;"the act of using. 'the steps were worn from years of use'"
practical application;the act of bringing something to bear. using it for a particular purpose. 'he advocated the application of statistics to the problem'. 'a novel application of electronics to medical diagnosis
permutation;the act of changing the arrangement of a given number of elements
twitting;aggravation by deriding or mocking or criticizing
computer technology;the activity of designing and constructing and programming computers
water program;making an area of water more useful
bitchery;aggressive remarks and behavior like that of a spiteful malicious woman
use;"the act of using. 'the steps were worn from years of use'"
bank shot;a shot that bounces off of the backboard
hell raising;making trouble just for the fun of it
penalty free throw;an unhindered shot from the foul line. given to penalize the other team for committing a foul
end;the part you are expected to play. 'he held up his end'
trial;the act of testing something. 'in the experimental trials the amount of carbon was measured separately'. 'he called each flip of the coin a new trial'
endeavour;"earnest and conscientious activity intended to do or accomplish something: 'made an effort to cover all the reading material'. 'wished him luck in his endeavor'. 'she gave it a good try'"
discovered check;a check on the opponent's king that is delivered by moving a piece out of the line of attack by a queen or rook or bishop
capitalization;the act of capitalizing on an opportunity
scandalisation;the act of scandalizing
play;utilization or exercise. 'the play of the imagination'
run;the act of testing something. 'in the experimental trials the amount of carbon was measured separately'. 'he called each flip of the coin a new trial'
medical practice;the practice of medicine
irritation;unfriendly behavior that aggravates or irritates someone
barnburner;(informal) a impressively successful event. 'the rock concert was a real barnburner'
share;any one of a number of individual efforts in a common endeavor: 'i am proud of my contribution to the team's success'. 'they all did their share of the work'
plus;the arithmetic operation of summing. calculating the sum of two or more numbers. 'the summation of four and three gives seven'. 'four plus three equals seven'
charity throw;an unhindered shot from the foul line. given to penalize the other team for committing a foul
rebuff;a deliberate discourteous act (usually as an expression of anger or disapproval)
integration;an operation used in the calculus whereby the integral of a function is determined
chemical engineering;the activity of applying chemistry to the solution of practical problems
strain;an effortful attempt to attain a goal
offence;a lack of politeness. a failure to show regard for others
ruff;(cards) the act of playing a trump when unable to follow suit
pass;a usually brief attempt. 'he took a crack at it'. 'i gave it a whirl'
overutilization;exploitation to the point of diminishing returns
slight;a deliberate discourteous act (usually as an expression of anger or disapproval)
affront;a deliberately offensive act or something producing the effect of an affront. 'turning his back on me was a deliberate insult'
down;a complete play to advance the football. 'you have 4 downs to gain 10 yards'
proxy fight;a measure used by an acquirer to gain control of a takeover target. acquirer tries to persuade other shareholders that the management of the target should be replaced
jumper;a player releases the basketball at the high point of a jump
set shot;a two-handed shot from a stationary position
terrorization;to inspire with fear
castling;interchanging the positions of the king and a rook
discourtesy;a lack of politeness. a failure to show regard for others
drug abuse;excessive use of drugs
aggravation;unfriendly behavior that aggravates or irritates someone
quadrature;the construction of a square having the same area as some other figure
grappling;taking the bull by the horns
screen test;a filmed audition of an actor or actress
operation;calculation by mathematical methods. 'the problems at the end of the chapter demonstrated the mathematical processes involved in the derivation'. 'they were learning the basic operations of arithmetic'
alcoholic abuse;excessive use of alcohol and alcoholic drinks
communications technology;the activity of designing and constructing and maintaining communication systems
duel;any struggle between two skillful opponents (individuals or groups)
offense;a lack of politeness. a failure to show regard for others
habit;excessive use of drugs
land development;making an area of land more useful
behavior;"a course of activities performed by some agent and understood as quite typical or conventional. ---(added here) maybe all activity patterns are performed by biological organisms? only by those involving some form of intentionality? ---(psychology) the aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements made by an organism in any situation."
behaviour;"a course of activities performed by some agent and understood as quite typical or conventional. ---(added here) maybe all activity patterns are performed by biological organisms? only by those involving some form of intentionality? ---(psychology) the aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements made by an organism in any situation."
silent treatment;an aloof refusal to speak to someone you know
law practice;the practice of law
hook shot;a shot made over the head with the hand that is farther from the basket
batting;(in baseball) the batter's attempt to get on base
conduct;"manner of acting or conducting oneself"
substance abuse;excessive use of drugs
basketball shot;throwing the basketball toward the hoop. 'his shot hit the rim and bounced out'
utilisation;"the act of using. 'the steps were worn from years of use'"
routine;"an unvarying or habitual method of procedure"
essay;a tentative attempt
castle;interchanging the positions of the king and a rook
contribution;any one of a number of individual efforts in a common endeavor: 'i am proud of my contribution to the team's success'. 'they all did their share of the work'
combination;the act of arranging elements into specified groups without regard to order
cut;a refusal to recognize someone you know. 'the snub was clearly intentional'
attack;an offensive move in a sport or game. 'they won the game with a 10-hit attack in the 9th inning'
facing;the act of confronting bravely. 'he hated facing the facts'. 'he excelled in the face of danger'
rut;a settled and monotonous routine that is hard to escape. 'they fell into a conversational rut'
overexploitation;exploitation to the point of diminishing returns
short division;the operation of division in which the sequence of steps is performed without writing them out
foul shot;an unhindered shot from the foul line. given to penalize the other team for committing a foul
dunk;a shot in which the basketball is propelled downward into the basket
outrage;the act of scandalizing
