worm genus;a genus of worms
paradisaeidae;birds of paradise
genus bauhinia;mountain_ebony, orchid_tree
aeonium;a genus of plants of the family crassulaceae
genus styphelia;australian heathlike shrubs
passer;type genus of the passeridae
melanerpes;a genus of picidae
family lygaeidae;lygaeid bugs
genus anodonta;thin-shelled freshwater mussels
myacidae;soft-shell clams
magnoliid dicot family;family of dicotyledonous flowering plants regarded as among the most primitive of extant angiosperms
genus neotoma;packrats
bemisia;sweet-potato whitefly
superclass myriapoda;used in some classifications to encompass the millipedes (diplopoda) and centipedes (chilopoda). formerly a large taxon including also the pauropoda and symphyla. the term myriapoda now usually used synonymously with diplopoda and limited to the millipedes
genus forsythia;forsythia
family calliphoridae;blowflies
genus glycyrrhiza;sticky perennial eurasian herbs
class crustacea;class of mandibulate arthropods including: lobsters. crabs. shrimps. woodlice. barnacles. decapods. water fleas
aethusa;fool's parsley
peltiphyllum;1 species
family podargidae;frogmouths
colymbiformes;grebes
family kinosternidae;mud turtles. musk turtles
zygocactus;small genus of brazilian cacti having flat fleshy usually branched joints and showy red or pink flowers followed by red fleshy fruits
family hippopotamidae;hippopotami
alsophila;geometrid moths
foraminifera;foraminifers
family megatheriidae;extinct ground sloths
pythiaceae;fungi having sporangia usually borne successively and singly at the tips of branching sporangiophores
genus melanitta;scoters
family sclerotiniaceae;a fungus family of order helotiales
genus thespesia;small genus of tropical trees: portia tree
subclass amphineura;a class of gastropoda
myaceae;clams
genus pituophis;bull snakes
subclass ostracoda;seed shrimps
camelina;annual and biennial herbs of mediterranean to central asia
embiodea;web spinners
family triopidae;a family of notostraca
araneus;a genus of orb-weaving spiders including common garden spiders and barn spiders
hylidae;tree frogs
order lepidodendrales;fossil arborescent plants arising during the lower devonian and conspicuous throughout the carboniferous
genus prunus;a genus of shrubs and trees of the family rosaceae that is widely distributed in temperate regions
family salamandridae;salamanders
order thysanoptera;thrips
alismales;an order of aquatic monocotyledonous herbaceous plants
order crocodylia;crocodiles. alligators. caimans. gavials
nymphicus;a genus of psittacidae
triatoma;conenoses
conium;small genus of highly toxic biennials: hemlock
aloeaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
budorcas;gnu goats
leptodactylidae;new world frogs. in some classifications essentially coextensive with the family bufonidae
family xantusiidae;night lizards
logania;type genus of the loganiaceae. australian and new zealand shrubs sometimes cultivated for their flowers
phylum bryozoa;marine or freshwater animals that form colonies of zooids
sphagnales;coextensive with the genus sphagnum. in some classifications isolated in a separate subclass
genus arca;type genus of the family arcidae: ark shells and blood clams
genus gorilla;gorillas
fagaceae;chiefly monoecious trees and shrubs: beeches. chestnuts. oaks. genera castanea. castanopsis. chrysolepis. fagus. lithocarpus. nothofagus. quercus
percoidea;in some classifications nearly or exactly equivalent to the perciformes which are considered a suborder
thermobia;a genus of lepismatidae
genus placuna;windowpane oysters
genus eburophyton;a monocotyledonous genus of the family orchidaceae
family erythroxylaceae;a family of plants of order geraniales. have drupaceous fruit
apocynaceae;chiefly tropical trees or shrubs or herbs having milky juice and often showy flowers. many are sources of drugs
class polyplacophora;small class of marine mollusks comprising the chitons. sometimes considered an order of the subclass amphineura
dicynodontia;a division of therapsida
varanidae;monitor lizards
cycadophyta;palmlike gymnosperms: includes the surviving order cycadales and several extinct orders. possibly not a natural group. in some systems considered a class (cycadopsida) and in others a subdivision (cycadophytina or cycadophyta)
genus elsholtzia;genus of asiatic and african aromatic herbs
genus chloranthus;type genus of the chloranthaceae
sphaeriaceae;parasitic fungi having globose and sometimes necked or beaked perithecia
order endomycetales;fungi having a zygote or a single cell developing directly into an ascus
cycadopsida;palmlike gymnosperms: includes the surviving order cycadales and several extinct orders. possibly not a natural group. in some systems considered a class (cycadopsida) and in others a subdivision (cycadophytina or cycadophyta)
genus castilleja;genus of western north and south american perennials often partially parasitic on roots of grasses
orchestiidae;beach fleas
genus platycerium;often epiphytic tropical old world ferns
dionaea;a genus of the family droseraceae
genus boletellus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family boletaceae
patellidae;marine limpets
pterocles;type genus of the pteroclididae
sapindaceae;chiefly tropical new and old world deciduous and evergreen trees and shrubs bearing leathery drupes with yellow translucent flesh. most plants produce toxic saponins
honeysuckle family;shrubs and small trees and woody vines
terebella;type genus of terebellidae. tube-forming marine polychete worms with many filamentous tentacles
genus taricha;pacific newts
genus swainsona;genus of australian herbs and subshrubs: darling peas
sialidae;an arthropod family including: alderflies
pilosella;genus of hairy perennial herbs with horizontal rhizomes and leafy or underground stolons. eurasia and north africa. often considered congeneric with hieracium
rhinotermitidae;large widely distributed family of termites of temperate to tropical regions
motacillidae;pipits and wagtails
menippe;stone crabs
genus meconopsis;herbs almost entirely of mountains of china and tibet. often monocarpic
dipodidae;old world jerboas
felicia;genus of tropical african herbs or subshrubs with usually blue flowers
genus turreae;genus of trees and shrubs of tropical africa and asia and australia
subclass eutheria;all mammals except monotremes and marsupials
gynura;genus of old world tropical herbs: velvet plants
order isopoda;woodlice
genus acrocomia;central and south american feather palms
genus tetraneuris;genus of hairy yellow-flowered plants ofwestern united states. includes plants sometimes placed in genus hymenoxys
genus titanosaurus;genus of herbivorous dinosaurs flourishing during the cretaceous in south america
class ginkgopsida;ginkgos: in some systems classified as a class (ginkgopsida) and in others as a subdivision (ginkgophytina or ginkgophyta). used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
tiliaceae;chiefly trees and shrubs of tropical and temperate regions of especially southeastern asia and brazil. genera tilia. corchorus. entelia. grewia. sparmannia
begoniaceae;monoecious succulent herbs or shrubs of tropical and warm regions especially america
genus panonychus;a genus of tetranychidae
hominidae;modern man and extinct immediate ancestors of man
taxon;"animal or plant group having natural relations"animal or plant group having natural relations
genus dicksonia;tree ferns of temperate australasia having bipinnatifid or tripinnatifid fronds and usually marginal sori. in some classification systems placed in family cyatheaceae
genus theobroma;cacao plants
genus lumpenus;a genus of stichaeidae
haemanthus;genus of african deciduous or evergreen bulbous herbs: blood lilies
cedrus;true cedars
bruckenthalia;1 species: spike heath
dipladenia;genus of tropical south american tuberous perennial woody vines with large racemose flowers and milky sap
melursus;sloth bears. in some classifications not a separate genus from ursus
suborder maniraptora;advanced theropods including oviraptorids and dromaeosaurs and possibly even modern birds
genus myrtillocactus;small genus of arborescent cacti of mexico and central america
sirenia;manatees. dugongs. stellar's sea cow
genus alcelaphus;african antelopes: hartebeests
zygnematales;pond scums. desmids
genus acacia;large genus of shrubs and trees and some woody vines of central and south america, africa, australia and polynesia: wattle. mimosa
lycopus;small genus of nonaromatic herbs of the mind family
genus houttuynia;1 species. east asian low-growing plant of wet places
ringdove;grayish old world turtledove with a black band around the neck. often caged
cryptophyta;a phylum in the kingdom protoctista
genus erolia;a genus of scolopacidae
arctocebus;a genus of lorisidae
cyperus;type genus of cyperaceae. grasslike rhizomatous herbs. cosmopolitan except very cold regions
remilegia;a genus of echeneididae
genus lambertia;small genus of australian shrubs
sisal family;chiefly tropical and xerophytic plants: includes dracenaceae (dracaenaceae). comprises plants that in some classifications are divided between the amaryllidaceae and the liliaceae
genus terrapene;box turtles
ruta;type genus of the rutaceae. strong-scented eurasian herbs and subherbs
rhynia;type genus of the rhyniaceae. small leafless dichotomously branching fossil plants with terminal sporangia and smooth branching rhizomes
dracunculus;type genus of the family dracunculidae
genus lagothrix;woolly monkeys
phylum annelida;segmented worms: earthworms. lugworms. leeches
leontopodium;edelweiss
class pelecypoda;oysters. clams. scallops. mussels
genus lemmus;lemmings
family mantidae;mantises
genus albatrellus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family polyporaceae
genus myrica;deciduous aromatic shrubs or small trees
family sarcoptidae;small whitish mites
sparmannia;small genus of tropical african shrubs
euryalida;basket stars
uta;a reptile genus of iguanidae
schizophyta;former term for the cyanophyta
pea family;a large family of trees, shrubs, vines, and herbs bearing bean pods. divided for convenience into the subfamilies caesalpiniaceae. mimosaceae. papilionaceae
opheodrys;north american green snakes
phyllorhynchus;leaf-nosed snakes
vanessa;painted beauty and red admiral
genus desmodium;beggarweed. tick_trefoil
stictopelia;a genus of columbidae
viverrinae;genets. civets. mongooses
tageteste;marigolds
adapid;extinct small mostly diurnal lower primates that fed on leaves and fruit. abundant in north america and europe 30 to 50 million years ago. their descendents probably include the lemurs. some authorities consider them ancestral to anthropoids but others consider them only cousins
papio;baboons
family sialidae;an arthropod family including: alderflies
genus callirhoe;small genus of north american herbs having usually red or purple flowers
ambloplites;a genus of centrarchidae
family sphaerocarpaceae;liverworts with bilaterally symmetrical gametophytes. sometimes placed in the order jungermanniales
potamophis;ground snakes
tethys;type genus of the family aplysiidae
genus aranea;a genus of orb-weaving spiders including common garden spiders and barn spiders
genus phalangium;type genus of the family phalangiidae
plane tree family;coextensive with the genus platanus: plane trees
hyssopus;eurasian genus of perennial herbs or subshrubs
class ciliophora;class of protozoa having cilia or hairlike appendages on part or all of the surface during some part of the life cycle
genus grammatophyllum;small genus of large epiphytic or terrestrial orchids of southeastern asia to polynesia. the giants of the orchidaceae having long narrow leaves and drooping flower clusters often 6 feet long
dinoflagellata;in some classifications considered a phylum of the kingdom protista. in others included in the plant phylum pyrrophyta
family salviniaceae;water ferns
family procyonidae;raccoons. coatis. cacomistles. kinkajous. and sometimes pandas
talinum;genus of mainly american more-or-less succulent herbs
family taeniidae;a family of cestoda
family tuberculariaceae;large family of mainly saprophytic imperfect fungi
genus carpocapsa;codling moths
uca;fiddler crabs
genus papaver;type genus of the papaveraceae. chiefly bristly hairy herbs with usually showy flowers
muscidae;two-winged flies esp. the housefly
subfamily turdinae;alternative classification for the thrushes
genus citellus;typical ground squirrels
genus lobelia;in some classifications considered the type genus of a separate family lobeliaceae
myopus;a genus of cricetidae
circus;a genus of haws comprising the harriers
lasiocampa;type genus of the lasiocampidae: eggars
genus gossypium;herbs and shrubs and small trees: cotton
genus symplocus;type and sole genus of symplocaceae including sweetleaf
genus liopelma;type and sole genus of the family leiopelmatidae
genus cassiope;low tufted evergreen shrubs of colder parts of north temperate regions having mosslike foliage and nodding white or pink flowers
genus ouranopithecus;a genus of hominidae
genus ceroxylon;wax palms
family anomalopidae;a family of fish including: flashlight fishes
scorpaenidae;scorpionfishes. rockfishes. lionfishes
oriolus;type genus of the oriolidae
family centrarchidae;sunfish family
genus euproctis;a genus of lymantriidae
genus lota;burbot
begonia family;monoecious succulent herbs or shrubs of tropical and warm regions especially america
pseudomonodaceae;rod-shaped gram-negative bacteria. include important plant and animal pathogens
family combretaceae;a family of tropical trees and shrubs of the order myrtales
genus fenusa;birch leaf miner
division lichenes;comprising the lichens which grow symbiotically with algae. sometimes treated as an independent group more or less coordinate with algae and fungi
genus metroxylon;a genus of malayan pinnate-leaved palm trees that flower and fruit once and then die
phoeniculidae;wood hoopoes
genus ceratodus;type genus of the ceratodontidae: extinct genus of lungfishes
genus trilisa;genus of herbs of southern united states
genus zaglossus;a genus of tachyglossidae
genus aphis;type genus of the aphididae: injurious to fruit trees and vegetables
genus streptococcus;a genus of bacteria
dacrymyces;type genus of the dacrymycetaceae: fungi with a bifurcate basidium that lacks septa
eubacteriales;one of two usually recognized orders of true bacteria. gram-positive spherical or rod-shaped forms. some are motile. in some classifications considered an order of schizomycetes
genus olfersia;1 species. in some classification systems included in genus polyboatrya
puccinia;type genus of the pucciniaceae. a large genus of parasitic fungi including many that are destructive to various economic plants
hyoscyamus;genus of poisonous herbs: henbane
genus discina;a genus of fungi of the family helvellaceae with a cup-shaped or saucer-shaped fruiting body and ornamented spores
genus alcea;genus of erect herbs of the middle east having showy flowers: hollyhocks. in some classification systems synonymous with althea
agaricales;typical gilled mushrooms belonging to the subdivision basidiomycota
genus nyctaginia;a caryophyllaceous genus of the family nyctaginaceae having only one species
bellis;daisy
euphagus;a genus of icteridae
genus pachysandra;evergreen perennial procumbent subshrubs or herbs
genus elagatis;a genus of carangidae
family corydalidae;dobsons
family loganiaceae;a dicotyledonous family of plants of order gentianales
genus rhincodon;whale sharks
family ancylostomatidae;hookworms
genus rivulus;killifish
sarcobatus;1 species: greasewood
horse chestnut family;trees having showy flowers and inedible nutlike seeds in a leathery capsule
lysimachia;loosestrife: a cosmopolitan genus found in damp or swampy terrain having usually yellow flowers. inclined to be invasive
thripidae;thrips
picus;type genus of picidae
genus lepidocybium;a genus of gempylidae
genus dialeurodes;a genus of aleyrodidae
genus notropis;shiners
family coregonidae;soft-finned fishes comprising the freshwater whitefishes. formerly included in the family salmonidae
cystopteris;chiefly small perennial rock ferns: bladder ferns. in some classifications placed in polypodiaceae
paronychia;low-growing annual or perennial herbs or woody plants. whitlowworts
genus macroclemys;alligator snapping turtles
adonis;annual or perennial herbs
subdivision cycadophyta;palmlike gymnosperms: includes the surviving order cycadales and several extinct orders. possibly not a natural group. in some systems considered a class (cycadopsida) and in others a subdivision (cycadophytina or cycadophyta)
family sphaerobolaceae;monotypic family of fungi in which the more or less spherical gleba is forcibly ejected at maturity
genus ocyurus;snappers
genus rhodosphaera;1 species. an australian evergreen sumac
genus pandion;type genus of the pandionidae
genus primula;very large and important genus of plants of temperate europe and asia having showy flowers
pholas;type genus of the family pholadidae: piddocks
family roridulaceae;in some classifications included in the family droseraceae
genus gleditsia;deciduous trees: honey locusts
toxicodendron;in some classifications: comprising those members of the genus rhus having foliage that is poisonous to the touch. of north america and northern south america
family lepisosteidae;comprises the genus lepisosteus
witch grass;north american grass with slender brushy panicles. often a weed on cultivated land
galeocerdo;tiger sharks
polynemidae;threadfins
carduus;genus of annual or perennial old world prickly thistles
sphenopsida;horsetails and related forms
onychium;small terrestrial ferns of old world tropics and subtropics: claw ferns. sometimes placed in family cryptogrammataceae
diodontidae;spiny puffers
gleichenia;type genus of gleicheniaceae: leptosporangiate ferns with sessile sporangia. south africa to maylasia and new zealand
genus tilia;deciduous trees with smooth usually silver-gray bark of north america and europe and asia: lime trees. lindens. basswood
plecotus;a genus of vespertilionidae
genus lagodon;a genus of sparidae
genus scaphiopus;new world spadefoot toads
family polyodontidae;paddlefishes
genus simarouba;type genus of simaroubaceae. tropical american trees and shrubs having a pale soft wood and bitter bark
family upupidae;hoopoes
asphodelus;small genus of tall striking annuals or perennials with grasslike foliage and flowers in dense racemes or panicles. mediterranean to himalayas. sometimes placed in family asphodelaceae
pharomacrus;a genus of trogonidae
bryales;category used in some classification systems for mosses having the spore case separated from the capsule wall by a hollow intercellular space
phylum mollusca;gastropods. bivalves. cephalopods. chitons
genus albizzia;large genus of unarmed trees and shrubs of old world tropics
family myxinidae;slime-producing marine animals: hagfishes
phaethon;type genus of the phaethontidae
thelypteris;marsh ferns: in some classification systems considered part of genus dryopteris in family dryopteridaceae
genus metasequoia;genus of deciduous conifers comprising both living and fossil forms. 1 extant species: dawn redwood of china. variously classified as member of pinaceae or taxodiaceae
genus epacris;type genus of the epacridaceae: australian heath
family cimicidae;wingless flat-bodied blood-sucking insects
genus argyranthemum;comprises plants often included in the genus chrysanthemum
cyanophyta;prokaryotic organisms sometimes considered a class or phylum or subkingdom. coextensive with the cyanophyceae: cyanobacteria (blue-green algae)
subclass synapsida;extinct reptiles of the permian to jurassic considered ancestral to mammals
genus canella;1 species
family coprinaceae;used in some classifications for the genus coprinus
millet;extensively cultivated in europe and asia for its grain and in united states sometimes for forage
subfamily numidinae;guinea fowl and related birds of africa and madagascar
entolomataceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order agaricales
plecoptera;stoneflies
subclass dibranchiata;comprising all living cephalopods except the family nautilidae: the orders octopoda (octopuses) and decapoda (squids and cuttlefish)
ambystoma;type genus of the ambystomatidae
gracillariidae;leaf miners
order rheiformes;a ratite bird order: birds intermediate in characteristics between ostriches and emus: recent and extinct rheas
rutaceae;a family of dicotyledonous plants of order geraniales. have flowers that are divide into four or five parts and usually have a strong scent
smiledon;saber-toothed tigers
genus zenaidura;mourning doves
genus hyperoodon;bottle-nosed whales
genus agriocharis;a genus of birds of the family meleagrididae including the ocellated turkey
gavialis;type genus of the gavialidae
culicidae;mosquitoes
order ranales;herbs, shrubs and trees: includes families ranunculaceae. annonaceae. berberidaceae. magnoliaceae. menispermaceae. myristicaceae. nymphaeaceae. lardizabalaceae. lauraceae. calycanthaceae. ceratophyllaceae. cercidiphyllaceae
family psittacidae;coextensive with the order psittaciformes
marrubium vulgare;european aromatic herb with hairy leaves and numerous white flowers in axillary cymes. leaves yield a bitter extract use medicinally and as flavoring
genus leptopteris;including some ferns sometimes placed in genus todea
genus plesiosaurus;a reptile genus of suborder plesiosauria
family lactobacteriaceae;lactic acid bacteria and important pathogens. bacteria that ferment carbohydrates chiefly into lactic acid
genus mycobacterium;nonmotile gram-positive aerobic bacteria
heterostraci;extinct group of armored jawless fishes or fishlike vertebrate. taxonomy is not clear
genus camellia;tropical asiatic evergreen shrubs or small trees
genus cordylus;type genus of the cordylidae. spiny lizards somewhat resembling tiny crocodiles
mastigomycotina;fungi in which the spores and gametes are motile. in some systems placed in the phycomycetes group with the zygomycota
syrrhaptes;a genus of pteroclididae
genus pavo;peafowl
family zygnemataceae;pond scums: common freshwater algae forming green slimy masses
genus maia;type genus of the majidae. nearly cosmopolitan
genus buckleya;small genus of asiatic and american parasitic shrubs
acanthophis;australian elapid snakes
gentianales;gentianaceae. apocyanaceae. asclepiadaceae. loganiaceae. oleaceae. salvadoraceae
phragmites communis;tall north american reed having relative wide leaves and large plumelike panicles. widely distributed in moist areas. used for mats, screens and arrow shafts
family portunidae;swimming crabs
mallow family;herbs and shrubs and some trees: mallows. cotton. okra
trumpet creeper;a north american woody vine having pinnate leaves and large red trumpet-shaped flowers
genus sarcophilus;tasmanian devil
genus morus;type genus of the moraceae: mulberries
genus acherontia;death's-head moth
juncaceae;tufted herbs resembling grasses: rushes
enterobacteriaceae;enterobacteria
charadrius;type genus of the charadriidae: plovers
genus corydalis;type genus of the corydalidae
neophron;a genus of accipitridae
order casuariiformes;a ratite bird order: cassowaries and emus
division chrysophyta;mostly freshwater eukaryotic algae having the chlorophyll masked by brown or yellow pigment. yellow-green and golden-brown algae and diatoms: xanthophyceae, chrysophyceae, bacillariophyceae. some some classification systems superseded or subsumed by heterokontophyta
genus castor;type genus of the castoridae: beavers
genus catalpa;a dicotyledonous genus of plants belonging to the family bignoniaceae. has large flowers (white or mottled) and long terete pods
genus phacochoerus;warthogs
genus dendrocolaptes;type genus of the dendrocolaptidae
xiphiidae;comprising the common swordfishes
family chalcididae;an arthropod family including: chalcidflies
potato family;large and economically important family of herbs or shrubs or trees often strongly scented and sometimes narcotic or poisonous. includes the genera solanum. atropa. brugmansia. capsicum. datura. hyoscyamus. lycopersicon. nicotiana. petunia. physalis. solandra
genus cicuta;small genus of perennial herbs having deadly poisonous tuberous roots: water hemlock
azolla;a genus of fern sometimes placed in its own family azollaceae
chordata;comprises true vertebrates and animals having a notochord
uintatherium;type genus of the uintatheriidae. extinct large herbivorous ungulates somewhat resembling elephants. from the eocene in wyoming
hyperoglyphe;a genus of stromateidae
genus salvelinus;brook trout
genus anthyllis;genus of mediterranean herbs and shrubs
lasthenia;small genus of herbs of pacific coast of north and south america
class chlorophyceae;algae distinguished chiefly by having flagella and a clear green color, their chlorophyll being masked little if at all by other pigments
formica;type genus of the formicidae
chimonanthus;small genus of asian deciduous or evergreen shrubs having fragrant flowers: winter_sweet
chelydra;snapping turtles
genus osmerus;type genus of the osmeridae
insectivora;shrews. moles. hedgehogs. tenrecs
nemertina;proboscis worms
alca;type genus of the alcidae comprising solely the razorbill
order columbiformes;sand grouse. pigeons. doves. extinct dodos and solitaires
genus saxifraga;type genus of the saxifragaceae. large genus of usually perennial herbs of arctic and cool regions of northern hemisphere: saxifrage
genus dicrostonyx;pied lemmings
family labridae;wrasses
aglaomorpha;epiphytic ferns of tropical asia
neurospora;genus of fungi with black perithecia used extensively in genetic research. includes some forms with orange spore masses that cause severe damage in bakeries
subclass;(biology) a taxonomic category below a class and above an order
genus malaxis;large genus of largely terrestrial orchids with one or a few plicate leaves and slender spikes or tiny mostly green flowers. cosmopolitan
rhamnus;type genus of the rhamnaceae: buckthorns
ulva;type genus of the family ulvaceae. green seaweed having a thallus two cells thick: sea lettuce
genus uria;murres
family bradypodidae;true sloths. in some
maple family;a family of trees and shrubs of order sapindales including the maples
family berberidaceae;shrubs or herbs
phyllocladus;celery pine
genus cydonia;quince
genus cephalotaxus;the genus of cephalotaxus (see plum-yews)
genus orthopristis;a genus of haemulidae
fraxinus;ash
scutigera;a genus of scutigeridae
genus baphia;small genus of shrubs and lianas and trees of africa and madagascar
genus oligoplites;leatherjackets
genus gorgonocephalus;basket stars
genus caladenia;terrestrial orchids of australia to new caledonia
family pandanaceae;family of woody plants of the order pandanales including: pandanus. freycinetia
spindle tree family;trees and shrubs and woody vines usually having bright-colored fruits
solanopteris;tropical american epiphytic ferns having rhizomes with tubers and roots as well as scales
genus marattia;type genus of the marattiaceae: ferns having the sporangia fused together in two rows
genus chelonia;green turtles
genus triticum;annual cereal grasses from mediterranean area. widely cultivated in temperate regions
montia;small genus of densely tufted annual herbs. north temperate regions and south america and tropical africa and asia
stenocarpus;small genus of timber trees. australia to malaysia
family locustidae;short-horned grasshoppers. true locusts
family myctophidae;deep-sea fishes comprising the lantern fishes
vespertilionidae;the majority of common bats of temperate regions of the world
family pempheridae;sweepers
genus cymbidium;genus of tropical epiphytic or terrestrial old world orchids. one of the most popular orchid genera
family alcedinidae;kingfishers
emmanthe;1 species: yellow bells
genus stizostedion;pikeperches
genus sagina;small low-growing annual or perennial herbs of temperate and cool regions
genus lufengpithecus;a genus of hominidae
polanisia;widely distributed herbs having palmate leaves and creamy white to or pink to magenta flowers with many stamens of unequal length
genus pomatomus;type genus of the pomatomidae
macrouridae;grenadiers
arrowroot family;tropical perennial herbs with usually starchy rhizomes
coryanthes;small genus of tropical american epiphytic or lithophytic orchids
saussurea;genus of herbs of temperate and cool regions of eurasia
sciaridae;fungus gnats
genus halocarpus;dioecious trees or shrubs of new zealand. similar in habit to dacrydium
genus eurotium;a genus of fungi belonging to the order eurotiales
iridaceae;large family of usually perennial geophytic herbs with rizomes or corms or bulbs
frog s bit family;simple nearly stemless freshwater aquatic plants. widely distributed
family mammutidae;extinct family: mastodons
uria;murres
amphicarpa;very small genus of twining vines of north america and asia: hog peanut
family andrenidae;a large family of solitary short-tongued bees most of which burrow in the ground
family cordylidae;small family of spiny ovoviviparous african lizards
chamaeleonidae;old world chameleons. in some classifications rhiptoglossa is considered a superfamily of sauria
genus polybotria;tropical american ferns. usually terrestrial when young but scandent later
tenebrionidae;a family of arthropods including darkling beetles and mealworms
genus calosoma;genus of large predaceous ground beetles that feed on injurious caterpillars
genus sanvitalia;small genus of tropical american annual herbs: creeping zinnia
piranga;a genus of thraupidae
genus taurotragus;african antelopes: elands
family tridacnidae;large marine hard-shell clams
family hemerobiidae;brown lacewings
genus tolmiea;1 species: pickaback plant
genus ratibida;genus of perennial wildflowers of north american plains and prairies. often cultivated for their showy flower heads
genus maja;type genus of the majidae. nearly cosmopolitan
arabis;annual to perennial woody herbs of temperate north america, europe and asia: rockcress
genus baiomys;pygmy mice
genus hexamita;flagellates free-living or parasitic in intestines of birds
pterosauria;extinct flying reptiles: pterosaurs
genus liposcelis;a genus of psocidae
anhima;type genus of the anhimidae. horned screamers
genus zoarces;type genus of the zoarcidae
genus peripatopsis;type genus of peripatopsidae. onychophorans of chiefly asiatic and african tropical regions
tamarindus;widely cultivated tropical trees originally of africa
dipsacus;type genus of the dipsacaceae: teasel
family auriculariaceae;fungi having gelatinous sporophores
family cyatheaceae;tropical tree ferns
genus poa;chiefly perennial grasses of cool temperate regions
euglenophyta;free-swimming flagellate algae
campylorhynchus;alternative classifications for the cactus wrens
genus viverricula;a genus of viverridae
zapodidae;jumping mice
enhydra;sea otters
genus peronospora;genus of destructive downy mildews
azaleastrum;group of evergreen or deciduous shrubs formerly considered a separate genus. now included in the genus rhododendron
gerrididae;an arthropod family that includes water striders
homarus;type genus of the family homaridae: common edible lobsters
myxine;type genus of the myxinidae (typical hagfishes)
istiophoridae;sailfishes. spearfishes. marlins
genus squatina;type genus of the squatinidae: angel sharks
genus vitis;the type genus of the family vitaceae. woody vines with simple leaves and small flowers. includes a wide variety of grapes
ardea;type genus of the ardeidae: large new and old world herons
family mycoplasmatacaea;pleomorphic gram-negative nonmotile microorganism similar to both viruses and bacteria. parasitic in mammals
calandrinia;large genus of low-growing herbs. widespread throughout tropical and warm temperate regions having usually basal leaves and panicles of purplish ephemeral flowers
order juglandales;coextensive with the family juglandaceae
haemulon;type genus of the haemulidae
genus monocanthus;type genus of the monocanthidae
pygoscelis;a genus of spheniscidae
polygonia;comma butterflies
subfamily taxodiaceae;coniferous trees. traditionally considered an independent family though recently included in cupressaceae in some classification systems
dragon tree;tall tree of the canary islands. source of dragon's blood
genus oreortyx;mountain quail of western united states
family muscidae;two-winged flies esp. the housefly
genus pluvialis;golden plovers
genus melanoplus;new world migratory locusts and common american grasshoppers
ecballium;exploding cucumber. squirting cucumber
class pauropoda;an obscure class of minute arthropods with branched antennae and 8 to 10 pairs of legs
leymus;genus that in some classifications overlaps the genus elymus
genus trichomonas;flagellates parasitic in alimentary or genitourinary tracts of vertebrates and invertebrates including humans
genus echinops;genus of mediterranean and eurasian herbs: globe thistles
exaeretodon;a genus of reptiles of the division cynodontia
genus holothuria;type genus of the holothuridae
cebus;type genus of the cebidae
poephila;grassfinches
genus amianthum;1 species: fly poison. sometimes placed in family melanthiaceae
tetraodontidae;puffers
family globigerinidae;a family of protoctists
genus melogale;a genus of mustelidae
genus halesia;deciduous small trees or shrubs of china and eastern north america
pseudotaxus;one species
genus capella;snipes
oxyuridae;pinworms
eutheria;all mammals except monotremes and marsupials
genus forestiera;genus of often spiny american shrubs and trees
subclass archosauria;a large subclass of diapsid reptiles including: crocodiles. alligators. dinosaurs. pterosaurs. plesiosaurs. ichthyosaurs. thecodonts
genus helxine;1 species. a dwarf creeping mat-forming evergreen herb
family desmidiaceae;unicellular algae
nephrolepis;small genus of tropical ferns. sometimes placed in polypodiaceae
branchiostegidae;small family of marine fishes having covered gills
lens;genus of small erect or climbing herbs with pinnate leaves and small inconspicuous white flowers and small flattened pods: lentils
stegocephalia;in former classifications a division of amphibia comprising all pre-jurassic and some later extinct large salamandriform amphibia
genus musa;type genus of the musaceae: bananas
drosera;the type genus of droseraceae including many low bog-inhabiting insectivorous plants
amygdalus;used in former classifications for peach and almond trees which are now included in genus prunus
genus pyrus;fruit trees native to the old world: pears
musa;type genus of the musaceae: bananas
genus rangifer;reindeer or caribou
genus pinctada;pearl oysters
genus callistephus;1 species: erect asiatic herb with large flowers
pistacia;a dicotyledonous genus of trees of the family anacardiaceae having drupaceous fruit
genus lens;genus of small erect or climbing herbs with pinnate leaves and small inconspicuous white flowers and small flattened pods: lentils
order opuntiales;coextensive with the family cactaceae: cactuses
cycadaceae;ancient palmlike plants closely related to ferns in that fertilization is by means of spermatozoids
genus homo;type genus of the family_hominidae
genus buphthalmum;oxeye
family chelydridae;snapping turtles
genus haemodorum;type genus of family haemodoraceae
cercis;deciduous shrubs and trees of eastern asia, southern europe and the united states
lobata;ctenophore having tentacles only in the immature stage. body compressed vertically having two large oral lobes and four pointed processes
family araucariaceae;tall evergreen cone-bearing trees of south america and australia with broad leathery leaves. in some classifications included in the pinaceae
cronartium;rust fungi having aecia produced in raised or swollen sori and teliospores borne in waxy columns
family viverridae;genets. civets. mongooses
phasianus;type genus of the phasianidae: the typical pheasants
genus fregata;type genus of the fregatidae
genus plicatoperipatus;a genus of peripatidae
family albuginaceae;fungi that produce white blister-like sori on certain flowering plants
tribe bubalus;in some classification systems included in genus bos. water buffaloes
genus melampsora;rusts having sessile one-celled teliospores in a single layer
ophiuroidea;brittle stars and basket stars
loricata;former name for the order crocodylia
cruciferae;plants with four-petaled flowers
genus hugueninia;1 species: tansy-leaved rocket
genus lepechinia;a dicotyledonous genus of the family labiatae
genus gallinago;snipes
payena;genus of medium to large malaysian trees yielding gutta-percha
genus paradoxurus;palm civets
genus sambucus;elder. elderberry
acnidosporidia;a subclass of sporozoa
mantidae;mantises
didelphis;type genus of the family didelphidae
genus urocystis;a genus of smut fungi belonging to the family tilletiaceae
genus alectura;brush turkeys
genus mastigoproctus;giant whip scorpions
scolymus;small genus of thistlelike herbs of the mediterranean region
order aspergillales;order of fungi having a closed ascocarp (cleistothecium) with the asci scattered rather than gathered into a hymenial layer
genus carya;genus of large deciduous nut-bearing trees. united states and china
mahonia;evergreen shrubs and small trees of north and central america and asia
ditchmoss;submerged freshwater perennials
commiphora;genus of east indian and african trees yielding balsamic products
arca;type genus of the family arcidae: ark shells and blood clams
drepanididae;hawaiian honeycreepers
family cervidae;deer: reindeer. moose or elks. muntjacs. roe deer
megaderma;type genus of the megadermatidae
genus regulus;a genus of birds of the family sylviidae including kinglets
family emydidae;box and water turtles
family polypedatidae;old world tree frogs
genus lobularia;sweet alyssum
scaphosepalum;comprises some tropical american species usually placed in genus masdevallia: diminutive plants with small flowers carried on one scape
genus tubercularia;type genus of the tuberculariaceae. fungi with nodules of red or pink conidia. some cause diebacks of woody plants
larrea;xerophytic evergreen shrubs. south america to southwestern united states
merginae;mergansers and closely related diving birds
genus tithonia;genus of robust herbs of mexico and central america: mexican sunflower
dinornithidae;moas
coccinellidae;the ladybugs
genus menura;type and sole genus of the family menuridae
genus cryptotis;least shrews
genus phthirus;true lice: crab lice
hexapoda;insects. about five-sixths of all known animal species
genus hosta;robust east asian clump-forming perennial herbs having racemose flowers: plantain lilies. sometimes placed in family hostaceae
genus inga;genus of tropical trees or shrubs with flowers in mimosiform heads
gadiformes;cods, haddocks, grenadiers. in some classifications considered equivalent to the order anacanthini
monocotyledonae;comprising seed plants that produce an embryo with a single cotyledon and parallel-veined leaves: includes grasses and lilies and palms and orchids. divided into four subclasses or superorders: alismatidae. arecidae. commelinidae. and liliidae
garrulinae;subfamily of the crow family: jays
gerrhonotus;alligator lizards
dwarf maple;small maple of northwestern north america
zigadenus;genus of mostly north american poisonous plants. sometimes placed in family melanthiaceae
family simaroubaceae;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs with bitter bark having dry usually one-seeded winged fruit
psilophytales;paleozoic simple dichotomously branched plants of europe and eastern canada including the oldest known vascular land plants
staff tree family;trees and shrubs and woody vines usually having bright-colored fruits
class oligochaeta;earthworms
family amphisbaenidae;worm lizards
genus chrysosplenium;genus of widely distributed semiaquatic herbs with minute greenish-yellow apetalous flowers
family peneidae;tropical prawns
subfamily perdicinae;old world partridges
spermophilus;typical ground squirrels
sciurus;type genus of the sciuridae. typical moderate-sized arboreal squirrels
genus melastoma;type genus of melastomataceae. asiatic shrubs with leathery leaves and large purple flowers followed by edible fleshy black berries
anguis;type genus of the anguidae: blindworms
phalangida;harvestmen
order umbellales;plants having umbels or corymbs of uniovulate flowers. includes the umbelliferae (chiefly herbs) and cornaceae (chiefly trees or shrubs)
psidium;guavas
genus calypso;1 species found throughout much of northern north america and eurasia
crepis;hawk's beard. cosmopolitan in northern hemisphere
thuja;red cedar
limulidae;horseshoe crabs
linnaea;1 species: twinflower
family halictidae;a family of small solitary bees. many are valuable pollinators for agriculture
family ammodytidae;sand lances
lyonia;evergreen or deciduous shrubs or small trees of united states to antilles and eastern asia to the himalaya
genus anethum;dill
spondias;tropical trees having one-seeded fruit
bungarus;kraits
lily family;includes species sometimes divided among the following families: alliaceae. aloeaceae. alstroemeriaceae. aphyllanthaceae. asparagaceae. asphodelaceae. colchicaceae. convallariaceae. hemerocallidaceae. hostaceae. hyacinthaceae. melanthiaceae. ruscaceae. smilacaceae. tecophilaeacea. xanthorrhoeaceae
lycium;deciduous and evergreen shrubs often spiny. cosmopolitan in temperate and subtropical regions
family nepidae;water scorpions
cajanus;erect densely branched shrubby perennials of old world tropics. naturalized in other warm regions
order marsupialia;coextensive with the subclass metatheria
genus hirudo;type genus of the family hirudinidae
genus pteropus;a genus of megachiroptera
parthenium;small genus of north american herbs and shrubs with terminal panicles of small ray flowers
eimeriidae;a family of protoctista in the order coccidia
genus gastrophryne;primarily tropical narrow-mouthed toads
genus ulva;type genus of the family ulvaceae. green seaweed having a thallus two cells thick: sea lettuce
plicatoperipatus;a genus of peripatidae
genus odontaspis;type and sole genus of carchariidae: sand sharks
linanthus;a genus of herbs of the family polemoniaceae. found in western united states
brassia;genus of tropical american epiphytic orchids having striking axillary racemes of yellow to green spiderlike flowers with long slender sepals and warty lips: spider orchids
natrix;water snakes. a cosmopolitan genus
genus agrostis;annual or perennial grasses cosmopolitan in northern hemisphere: bent grass (so named from 'bent' meaning an area of unfenced grassland)
cistothorus;marsh wrens
order phallales;order of fungi comprising the stinkhorns and related forms whose mature hymenium is slimy and fetid. sometimes placed in subclass homobasidiomycetes
primulales;primulaceae. theophrastaceae. myrsinaceae. and (in some classifications) plumbaginaceae
family mobulidae;large rays lacking venomous spines: mantas
subclass heterobasidiomycetes;category used in some classification systems for various basidiomycetous fungi including rusts and smuts
order araneida;spiders
syngonium;epiphytic or terrestrial climbing shrubs of central and south america. used as ornamental houseplants for their velvety foliage
genus hardenbergia;small genus of australian woody vines with small violet flowers. closely related to genus kennedia
order myrtales;myrtaceae. combretaceae. elaeagnaceae. haloragidaceae. melastomaceae. lecythidaceae. lythraceae. rhizophoraceae. onagraceae. lecythidaceae. punicaceae
genus urginea;mediterranean liliaceous plants. sometimes placed in family hyacinthaceae
genus hydrophyllum;waterleaf
family myacidae;soft-shell clams
mangrove family;trees and shrubs that usually form dense jungles along tropical seacoasts
genus procyon;type genus of the family procyonidae: raccoons
agrostemma;a caryophylloid dicot genus including corn cockles
order lepidoptera;moths and butterflies
family hydrobatidae;storm petrels
genus diodon;type genus of the diodontidae
anisotremus;a genus of haemulidae
cupressaceae;cypresses and junipers and many cedars
cladorhyncus;one of two genera of stilts. similar to avocets but with straight bills
pyralis;type genus of the pyralidae
upupidae;hoopoes
suricata;meerkats
genus shigella;a genus of bacteria
entoloma;pink-spored agarics lacking both volva and annulus and including some that are poisonous
genus suillus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family boletaceae
genus humulus;hops: hardy perennial vines of europe, north america and central and eastern asia producing a latex sap. in some classifications included in the family urticaceae
annona;type genus of the annonaceae. tropical american trees or shrubs
genus ariocarpus;slow-growing geophytic cacti. northern and eastern mexico. southern texas
araucaria family;tall evergreen cone-bearing trees of south america and australia with broad leathery leaves. in some classifications included in the pinaceae
triga;type genus of the triglidae
genus actaea;baneberry
viburnum;deciduous or evergreen shrubs or small trees: arrow-wood. wayfaring tree
lophius;type genus of family lophiidae
tadarida;freetail bats
gymnadenia;small genus of terrestrial orchids of north america and temperate eurasia
coragyps;a genus of cathartidae
malva;herbs and subshrubs: mallows
order palmales;coextensive with the family palmae: palms
family bruchidae;seed beetles
genus erysiphe;genus of powdery mildews
storeria;a genus of colubridae
aplacophora;an order of amphineura
dytiscidae;water beetles
genus corixa;type genus of the corixidae: boat bugs
epilachna;genus of ladybugs native to mexico and central america. both larvae and adults feed on plants
genus coleus;genus of old world tropical plants cultivated for their variegated leaves. various plants sometimes placed in genera plectranthus or solenostemon
psocidae;a family of small soft-bodied insects that feed on decaying vegetation. related to booklice
ciconia;type genus of the ciconiidae: european storks
parascalops;brewer's moles
limonium;sea lavender
charronia;a genus of mustelidae
brugmansia;includes some plants often placed in the genus datura: angel's trumpets
subclass dilleniidae;a group of families of more or less advanced trees and shrubs and herbs having either polypetalous or gamopetalous corollas and often with ovules attached to the walls of the ovary. contains 69 families including ericaceae and cruciferae and malvaceae. sometimes classified as a superorder
polioptila;new world gnatcatchers
genus stenopelmatus;sand crickets
xanthosoma;tropical american tuberous perennials
lappula;stickseed. beggar's lice
genus bartle frere;a living fossil or so-called 'green dinosaur': genus or subfamily of primitive nut-bearing trees thought to have died out 50 million years ago. a single specimen found in 1994 on mount bartle frere in eastern australia. not yet officially named
genus calamintha;calamint
genus flindersia;small genus of australian timber trees
hygrophoraceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order agricales. the gills of these fungi have a clean waxy appearance
cyathea;type genus of the cyatheaceae: tree ferns of the tropical rain forest to temperate woodlands
order ranunculales;herbs, shrubs and trees: includes families ranunculaceae. annonaceae. berberidaceae. magnoliaceae. menispermaceae. myristicaceae. nymphaeaceae. lardizabalaceae. lauraceae. calycanthaceae. ceratophyllaceae. cercidiphyllaceae
genus guevina;1 species: chilean nut
pantotheria;generalized extinct mammals widespread during the jurassic. commonly conceded to be ancestral to marsupial and placental mammals
type;(biology) the taxonomic group whose characteristics are used to define the next higher taxon
family nummulitidae;a family of fossil protoctists
dryopteris;large widespread genus of medium-sized terrestrial ferns. in some classification systems placed in polypodiaceae
subfamily uvulariaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae
genus xanthium;coarse herbs having small heads of greenish flowers followed by burrs with hooked bristles
polygonaceae;a family of plants of order polygonales chiefly of the north temperate zone. includes the buckwheats
avicennia;small genus of tropical shrubs or trees
pholidota;genus of mostly epiphytic orchids of indomalaya and western pacific
cercopidae;froghoppers or spittlebugs
esocidae;pikes. pickerels. muskellunges
burhinidae;large wading birds resembling the plovers: stone curlews
genus laminaria;type genus of the family laminariaceae: perennial brown kelps
passiflora;type genus of the passifloraceae
suborder xenarthra;armadillos. american anteaters. sloths
genus strombus;type genus of the family strombidae
family threskiornithidae;ibises
astacura;crayfish
cnicus;1 species: blessed thistle
labridae;wrasses
class hirudinea;hermaphroditic aquatic or terrestrial or parasitic annelids
todidae;a family of birds of the order coraciiformes
kosteletzya;small genus of herbs of southeastern united states and tropical america and africa
order dicranales;widely distributed order of mosses with erect gametophores and sporophytes at the tips of stems
genus hyla;type genus of the hylidae. tree toads
family peripatopsidae;a family of onychophora
genus amorpha;american herbs or shrubs usually growing in dry sunny habitats on prairies and hillsides
family haematopodidae;oystercatchers
genus cathartes;type genus of the cathartidae: turkey vultures
trombicula;type genus of the family trombiculidae
genus wintera;evergreen shrubs or small trees of australia and new zealand
genus cracticus;type genus of the cracticidae: australian butcherbirds
genus chondrus;a genus of protoctista
genus lactarius;large genus of white-spored agarics that include a white or milky juice when cut or broken. includes both edible and poisonous species
family athiorhodaceae;small motile sulphur bacteria
genus eumeces;new world skinks
cetraria;foliose lichens chiefly of northern latitudes
maia;type genus of the majidae. nearly cosmopolitan
plumeria;deciduous shrubs and trees of tropical america having branches like candelabra and fragrant white or pink flowers
genus drosophyllum;1 species
genus weigela;east asian flowering shrubs
subfamily emberizidae;buntings and some new world sparrows
cleridae;beetles that prey on other insects
acanthopterygii;teleost fishes having fins with sharp bony rays
hulsea;small genus of erect balsam-scented herbs. united states pacific nw
acanthisittidae;alternative names for the family comprising the new zealand wrens
genus alyssum;a genus of the family cruciferae
order lycopodiales;lower vascular plants coextensive with the family lycopodiaceae. in some classifications includes the selaginellaceae and isoetaceae
euarctos;american black bears. in some classifications not a separate genus from ursus
monotype;(biology) a taxonomic group with a single member (a single species or genus)
genus cuniculus;pacas
rosid dicot genus;a genus of dicotyledonous plants
order podicipitiformes;grebes
family poaceae;the grasses: chiefly herbaceous but some woody plants including cereals. bamboo. reeds. sugar cane
genus cladonia;type genus of cladoniaceae. lichens characterized by a crustose thallus and capitate fruiting bodies borne on simple or branched podetia
genus zostera;(or in some classifications family zosteraceae) small genus of widely distributed marine plants
genus archosargus;a genus of sparidae
artocarpus;evergreen asiatic trees now grown through the tropics: breadfruit. jackfruit
genus mullus;type genus of the mullidae: goatfishes
genus loasa;genus of tropical american prickly herbs or subshrubs
holarrhena;genus of deciduous trees and shrubs of tropical africa and asia
genus microstomus;a genus of pleuronectidae
genus geranium;genus of mostly north american geraniums: cranesbills
actitis;a genus of scolopacidae
genus muhlenbergia;a genus of grasses of the family gramineae grown in america and asia
order stomatopoda;mantis shrimps
anomia;type genus of the family anomiidae: saddle oysters
genus scincella;a reptile genus of scincidae
taxales;coextensive with the family taxaceae: yews
genus corydalis;annual or perennial herbs of sino-himalayan area and south africa. sometimes placed in family fumaricaceae
class gasteropoda;snails and slugs and their relatives
family formicidae;ants
ananas;a genus of tropical american plants have sword-shaped leaves and a fleshy compound fruits composed of the fruits of several flowers (such as pineapples)
melicoccus;tropical american trees and shrubs bearing berries
genus pinicola;a genus of fringillidae
sphecotheres;a genus of old world orioles
cakile;small genus of succulent annual herbs found on sandy shores of north america and europe
trichys;a genus of hystricidae
genus tantilla;black-headed snakes
nasturtium;aquatic herbs
hylobatidae;used in some classifications for the lesser apes (gibbons and siamangs). sometimes considered a subfamily of pongidae
polypodiaceae;ferns: a large genus that in some classification systems has been subdivided into the families: aspleniaceae. blechnaceae. davalliaceae. dennstaedtiaceae. dryopteridaceae. nephrolepidaceae. oleandraceae. pteridaceae. vittariaceae. includes genera aglaomorpha. anarthropteris
family aquifoliaceae;widely distributed shrubs and trees
najas;sole genus of the family naiadaceae
genus indri;type genus of the indriidae
suborder sauropoda;any of the sauropod dinosaurs
genus satureja;savory
family pedaliaceae;the family of plants of order polemoniales
genus cananga;a genus of malayan tree
genus epigaea;small creeping evergreen shrubs: trailing arbutus
genus xerophyllum;small genus of north american herbs having grasslike basal leaves: squaw_grass. sometimes placed in family melanthiaceae
order diapensiales;used in some classifications: coextensive with family diapensiaceae
genus albugo;type genus of the albuginaceae. fungi causing white rusts
genus castilleia;genus of western north and south american perennials often partially parasitic on roots of grasses
kaffir corn;important for human and animal food. growth habit and stem form similar to indian corn but having sawtooth-edged leaves
genus dendroica;a genus of parulidae
genus sceliphron;mud daubers
tympanuchus;prairie chickens
genus raphicerus;african antelopes: steenboks
genus dieffenbachia;evergreen perennial herbs of tropical america with lush foliage and poisonous sap. often cultivated as houseplants
echinocereus;large genus of low-growing shrubby ribbed cacti of mexico and southwestern united states
kyphosidae;sea chubs
ceiba;tropical american trees with palmately compound leaves and showy bell-like flowers
genus casuarius;type and sole genus of the casuaridae: cassowaries
subdivision ascomycotina;a large subdivision of eumycota including hemiascomycetes and plectomycetes and pyrenomycetes and discomycetes. sac fungi. in some classification systems considered a division of the kingdom fungi
camelidae;camels and llamas and vicunas
genus castanospermum;a rosid dicot genus of the subfamily apilionoideae having one species: moreton bay chestnut
genus verbascum;genus of coarse herbs and subshrubs mostly with woolly leaves
family balsaminaceae;distinguished from the family geraniaceae by the irregular flowers
genus volvariella;an important genus of mushrooms in the orient
richmondena;cardinals
family albulidae;bonefish
genus moehringia;low-growing herbs widely distributed in temperate and arctic northern hemisphere: sandworts. distinguished from members of the genus arenaria mainly by having 4- rather than 5-petaled flowers
genus aramus;genus of large brown long-billed wading birds found in warm swampy regions of the western hemisphere: courlan. limpkin
xanthorroea;grass trees. sometimes placed in family xanthorrhoeaceae
ziziphus;spiny chiefly tropical american and asiatic shrubs: jujubes
genus mohria;african terrestrial ferns
genus senecio;enormous and diverse cosmopolitan genus of trees and shrubs and vines and herbs including many weeds
cuminum;cumin
kaoliang;sorghums of china and manchuria having small white or brown grains (used for food) and dry pithy stalks (used for fodder, fuel and thatching)
genus ophioglossum;the type genus of the fern family ophioglossaceae
family spalacidae;mole rats
physaria;small genus of western north american herbs similar to lesquerella: bladderpods
hoheria;small genus of shrubs and small trees of new zealand: lacebarks
campanulales;an order or plants of the subclass asteridae including: campanulaceae. lobeliaceae. cucurbitaceae. goodeniaceae. stylidiaceae. calyceraceae. compositae
epimedium;herbaceous perennials of mediterranean to india and eastern asia
genus crocethia;a genus of scolopacidae
order haemosporidia;an order in the subclass telosporidia
class echinoidea;sea urchins and sand dollars
phalaropus;type genus of the phalaropidae: phalaropes
entomophthorales;coextensive with the family entomophthoraceae
family loranthaceae;in some classification includes viscaceae: parasitic or hemiparasitic shrublets or shrubs or small trees of tropical and temperate regions. attach to hosts by haustoria
genus photinia;genus of deciduous and evergreen east asian trees and shrubs widely cultivated as ornamentals for their white flowers and red fruits. in some classifications includes genus heteromeles
family plantaginaceae;cosmopolitan family of small herbs and a few shrubs. most are troublesome weeds
saxifrage family;a large and diverse family of evergreen or deciduous herbs. widely distributed in northern temperate and cold regions. sometimes includes genera of the family hydrangeaceae
acris;cricket frogs
genus bambusa;tall tender clumping bamboos
rhizobium;the type genus of rhizobiaceae. usually occur in the root nodules of legumes. can fix atmospheric oxygen
order piciformes;woodpeckers. jacamars. puffbirds. barbets. honey guides. toucans
family euphorbiaceae;a family of plants of order geraniales
genus sporobolus;cosmopolitan annual and perennial grasses (as dropseed or rushgrass)
genus nitella;fragile branching stoneworts
order hypericales;a large order of dicotyledonous plants of subclass dilleniidae
corakan;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
genus neomys;a genus of soricidae
selaginella eatonii;occurs widely in florida
suborder myxinoidei;hagfishes as distinguished from lampreys
hymenomycetes;used in some classifications. usually coextensive with order agaricales: mushrooms. toadstools. agarics. bracket fungi
peneidae;tropical prawns
tanacetum;a large genus of plants resembling chrysanthemums. comprises some plants often included in other genera especially genus chrysanthemum
genus camelus;type genus of the camelidae: camels
campyloneurum;epiphytic ferns of tropical america
genus delichon;a genus of hirundinidae
cotula;cosmopolitan herbs especially southern hemisphere. many used as ground covers
family atropidae;booklice
cordaites;tall paleozoic trees superficially resembling modern screw pines. structurally intermediate in some ways between cycads and conifers
necturus;a genus of proteidae
family cyprinidae;a family of fish including: carp. tench. roach. rudd. dace
family eriocaulaceae;chiefly tropical aquatic or bog herbs: pipeworts
porcellionidae;sow bugs
gaultheria;widely distributed genus of creeping or upright evergreen shrubs
genus sabinea;small genus of deciduous west indian trees or shrubs: carib wood
pteridospermaphyta;used in some classification systems: a group of extinct fossil gymnosperms coextensive with the order cycadofilicales
genus myrmecia;bulldog ants
genus dicranum;type genus of dicranaceae
genus agave;type genus of the agavaceae. in some classifications considered a genus of amaryllidaceae
elopidae;tarpons and ladyfishes
dicranopteris;terrestrial ferns of forest margin or open ground. pantropical
genus equus;type genus of the equidae: only surviving genus of the family equidae
microdipodops;kangaroo mice
ensete;old world tropical herbs: abyssinian bananas
genus trichosurus;a genus of phalangeridae
genus stictomys;mountain pacas
cercidiphyllaceae;1 genus
genus stenopterygius;a reptile genus of ichthyosauridae
genus antrodemus;carnivorous dinosaur of north america. late jurassic
subfamily garrulinae;subfamily of the crow family: jays
meloidae;blister beetles
alytes;midwife toads
genus crotalus;large rattlesnakes. seldom bite unless startled or pursuing prey
genus arius;type genus of the ariidae: sea catfishes
capsidae;leaf bugs
genus gasterophilus;type genus of the gasterophilidae: horse botflies
lepismatidae;firebrats
family ploceidae;weaverbirds
genus cucurbita;type genus of the cucurbitaceae
tetranychidae;plant-feeding mites
family fucaceae;small family of brown algae: gulfweeds. rockweeds
carassius;goldfish
schizaea;type genus of the schizaeaceae cosmopolitan especially in tropics. small leptosporangiate ferns: curly grass fern
genus lynx;lynxes
genus seiurus;ovenbirds and water thrushes
buteo;broad-winged soaring hawks
order coleoptera;beetles
entomophthora;type genus of the entomophthoraceae. fungi parasitic on insects
cervidae;deer: reindeer. moose or elks. muntjacs. roe deer
nabalus;genus of north american and east asian perennial herbs. sometimes included in genus prenanthes
ophioglossaceae;a family of succulent ferns of order ophioglossales. cosmopolitan in distribution
ogcocephalidae;batfishes: sluggish bottom-dwelling spiny fishes
magnoliopsid family;family of flowering plants having two cotyledons (embryonic leaves) in the seed which usually appear at germination
genus neolentinus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family polyporaceae
sabinea;small genus of deciduous west indian trees or shrubs: carib wood
eleocharis;sedges having dense spikes of flowers and leaves reduced to basal sheaths
grass family;the grasses: chiefly herbaceous but some woody plants including cereals. bamboo. reeds. sugar cane
echinoderm genus;a genus of echinoderms
order myricales;coextensive with the family myricaceae
family pholididae;a family of fish of suborder blennioidea
genus haemopis;leeches
crangon;type genus of the family crangonidae
genus dermatobia;larvae live under the skin of domestic mammals and humans
family accipitridae;hawks. old world vultures. kites. harriers. eagles
helodermatidae;only known venomous lizards
family liopelmidae;primitive new zealand frogs
family giraffidae;giraffes
passeres;two names for the suborder of typical songbirds
corticium;genus of fungi having simple smooth-surfaced sporophores. some are parasitic on wood or economic crops. some species formerly placed in form genus rhizoctinia
herpestes ichneumon;north african mongoose. in ancient times thought to devour crocodile eggs
genus astrophyton;includes many of the basket stars
red maple;maple of eastern and central america. 5-lobed leaves scarlet and yellow in autumn
genus gymnosporangium;genus of fungi that produce galls on cedars and other conifers of genera juniperus and libocedrus and causes rust spots on apples and pears and other plants of family rosaceae
genus apatosaurus;large quadrupedal herbivorous dinosaurs with very long neck and tail. late jurassic
order galliformes;pheasants. turkeys. grouse. partridges. quails. chickens. brush turkeys. curassows. hoatzins
family lycaenidae;family of small usually brilliantly colored butterflies. males have short forelegs
family lepadidae;goose barnacles
parazoa;multicellular organisms having less-specialized cells than in the metazoa. comprises the single phylum porifera
order trogoniformes;trogons
phragmites;reeds of marshes and riversides in tropical or temperate regions
strelitziaceae;woody plants with erect stems of tropical south america and south africa and madagascar. in some classifications included in the family musaceae
pelecanoididae;diving petrels
urodella;salamanders. newts. congo snakes
family holocentridae;squirrelfishes and soldierfishes
genus podalyria;genus of south african leguminous shrubs often placed in genus sophora
agathis;kauri pine
heteromeles;1 species: toyon. in some classifications included in genus photinia
aphyllanthes;1 species. small fibrous-rooted perennial with rushlike foliage and deep blue flowers. sometimes placed in its own family aphyllanthaceae
order ephemerida;mayflies
chimaeridae;a family of holocephali
taraktagenos;medium to large indo-malayan trees
genus uropsilus;shrew moles
grossulariaceae;in some classifications considered a part of the family saxifragaceae: plants whose fruit is a berry
genus bufo;type genus of the bufonidae. common toads of new and old worlds
genus ostrya;deciduous monoecious trees of europe and asia and america. sometimes placed in subfamily or family carpinaceae
membracidae;plant hoppers: treehoppers
genus pseudolarix;one species: golden larch
ledum;evergreen shrubs of north temperate regions
tamias;chipmunks of eastern north america
carcharhinus;type genus of the carcharhinidae
phylloscopus;warblers
fistulina;fungi having each pore separate though crowded
kingdom plantae;taxonomic kingdom comprising all living or extinct plants
genus tamandua;lesser anteater
laurus;small evergreen trees or shrubs with aromatic leaves
genus pterocarpus;genus of tropical trees or climbers having usually broadly winged pods
genus solandra;shrubby climbers of tropical america
genus bidens;bur marigolds
kakatoe;a genus of psittacidae
alismataceae;perennial or annual aquatic or marsh plants
cynoglossum;a large genus of tall rough herbs belonging to the family boraginaceae
family ascaphidae;family of one species of frog: tailed frog
genus pennisetum;a genus of old world grasses
daboecia;a dicotyledonous genus of the family ericaceae
genus argyroxiphium;small genus of hawaiian spreading and rosette-forming shrubs
polyporus;type genus of the polyporaceae. includes important pathogens of e.g. birches and conifers
carphophis;thunder snake
apatura;large old world butterflies
species;(biology) taxonomic group whose members can interbreed
hexanchus;a genus of hexanchidae
family valerianaceae;genus of mostly herbs having a characteristic fetid odor
convallaria;sometimes placed in family convallariaceae: lily_of_the_valley
castoridae;beavers
genus abutilon;herbs or shrubs or small trees: flowering maple. parlor maple. indian mallow
genus aepyceros;african antelopes: impalas
genus abrocoma;abrocomes
genus cottus;type genus of the cottidae: sculpins
phylum cycliophora;tiny marine organisms each the size of a period found in great numbers on lobsters' lips. identified tentatively in 1995 as a new phylum or as possible link between entoprocta and ectoprocta
balsamorhiza;genus of coarse western american herbs with large roots containing an aromatic balsam
genus pseudomonas;type genus of the family pseudomonodaceae
genus mustela;type genus of the family mustelidae: minks and weasels
genus nimravus;false sabertoothed tigers
family avicenniaceae;used in some classifications: coextensive with the genus avicennia
genus encyclia;large genus of epiphytic and lithophytic orchids of tropical and subtropical americas and west indies. formerly included in genus epidendrum
order graminales;grasses. sedges. rushes
family teredinidae;shipworms
odobenus;type genus of the odobenidae: walruses
cephalopterus;a genus of cotingidae
family calostomataceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order tulostomatales
family urticaceae;a family of plants of order urticales including many nettles with stinging hairs
babesiidae;piroplasms and cattle pathogens
phragmipedium;genus of tropical american orchid species often included in genus cypripedium or paphiopedilum and selenipedium: lady_slippers
hermissenda;genus of marine sea slugs
listera;genus of terrestrial orchids having usually a single pair of broad shining leaves at midstem. temperate asia and north america and europe
genus sophora;cosmopolitan genus of trees and shrubs having odd-pinnate leaves and showy flowers. some species placed in genus podalyria
genus manihot;genus of economically important tropical plants: cassava
ranalian complex;a group of families or trees and shrubs and herbs having well-developed perianths and apocarpous ovaries and generally regarded as the most primitive extant flowering plants. contains 36 families including magnoliaceae and ranunculaceae. sometimes classified as a superorder
genus eriocaulon;type genus of the eriocaulaceae: rushlike aquatic or marginal perennials usually found in shallow waters of acid lakes and pools and bogs
coraciidae;rollers
ptloris;a genus of paradisaeidae
hylocereus;genus of climbing or epiphytic tropical american cacti with angular stems and mostly white very fragrant flowers
family stercorariidae;jaegers and skuas:
haematoxylum;small genus of tropical american spiny bushy shrubs or trees
order strigiformes;owls
cheilanthes;small evergreen ferns: lipferns. in some classifications placed in family polypodiaceae or adiantaceae
alauda;type genus of the alaudidae: skylarks
selenicereus;mostly epiphytic climbing cacti that bloom at night
polycirrus;genus of soft-bodied polychete marine worms
genus psoralea;widely distributed genus of herbs or shrubs with glandular compound leaves and spicate or racemose purple or white flowers
chamaemelum;small genus of plants sometimes included in genus anthemis: chamomile
petromyzon;typical lampreys
genus eriogonum;north american herbs of the buckwheat family
latimeridae;extinct except for the coelacanth
genus phytolacca;type genus of phytolaccaceae: pokeweed
order carnivora;cats. lions. tigers. panthers. dogs. wolves. jackals. bears. raccoons. skunks. and members of the suborder pinnipedia
anniellidae;legless lizards
alcidae;web-footed diving seabirds of northern seas: auks. puffins. guillemots. murres. etc.
unionidae;freshwater mussels found worldwide
sialia;north american bluebirds
order insectivora;shrews. moles. hedgehogs. tenrecs
eucinostomus;a genus of gerreidae
order coccidia;an order in the subclass telosporidia
family cottidae;sculpins
family nephropsidae;in some classifications coextensive with the homaridae
family burmanniaceae;family of chiefly tropical herbs with basal leaves like bracts and small flowers
poterium;a genus of thorny herbs or shrubs of the family rosaceae
truncocolumella;a genus of fungi belonging to the family rhizopogonaceae
euthynnus;a genus of scombridae
physalia;portuguese man-of-war
genus myrrhis;european perennial herbs having pinnate leaves and umbels of white flowers
genus ursus;type genus of ursidae: brown bears. in some classifications genus ursus includes all bears
family esocidae;pikes. pickerels. muskellunges
ovibos;consisting of the musk-ox
genus protoceratops;small horned dinosaurs
gonorhynchidae;coextensive with the genus gonorhynchus
buxus;type genus of the buxaceae
family strombidae;conchs
genus agathis;kauri pine
lemuridae;typical lemurs. of madagascar
pomacentridae;damselfishes
family anacardiaceae;the cashew family. trees and shrubs and vines having resinous (sometimes poisonous) juice. includes cashew and mango and pistachio and poison ivy and sumac
genus ostrea;type genus of the family ostreidae
amaryllis family;snowdrop. narcissus. daffodil. in some classification systems considered a subfamily of the liliaceae
hevea;small genus of south american trees yielding latex
genus zerumbet;perennial rhizomatous herbs of asia and australia and polynesia having ginger-scented rhizomes
polyergus;amazon ants
chalcis;type genus of the chalcididae
genus syringa;genus of old world shrubs or low trees having fragrant flowers in showy panicles: lilacs
callinectes;new world blue crabs
family aspergillaceae;family of fungi including some common molds
aschelminthes;unsegmented worms: roundworms. threadworms. eelworms
order heterosomata;flatfishes: halibut. sole. flounder. plaice. turbot. tonguefishes
rhinonicteris;orange horseshoe bats
genus eoraptor;primitive theropod found in argentina. early triassic
family rhizopogonaceae;a family of fungi of order hymenogastrales having round subterranean sporophores
family symplocaceae;a dicotyledonous family of order ebenales
genus gentianopsis;genus of fringed gentians. in some classifications included in genus gentiana
ariomma;a genus of stromateidae
family monodontidae;narwhals
genus hipsurus;a genus of embiotocidae
genus motacilla;type genus of the motacillidae: wagtails
phylloxeridae;plant lice
colocasia;small genus of perennial tuberous herbs of tropical asia: taro
carpetweed family;succulent herbs or small shrubs mostly of south africa but also new zealand and north america: carpetweeds. fig marigolds
menispermaceae;herbaceous or woody climbers
genus horneophyton;devonian fossil plant considered one of the earliest forms of vascular land plants. similar to genus rhynia but smaller
genus selenipedium;genus of tall reedlike tropical american orchids. includes species with pods used locally as a substitute for vanilla
genus lewisia;genus of western north american low-growing herbs having linear woolly leaves and large pink flowers
genus anthericum;genus of old world (mainly african) perennial herbs. sometimes placed in family asphodelaceae
genus kobus;african antelopes: waterbucks
genus laportea;mostly tropical stinging herbs or trees: nettle
genus lepas;type genus of the family lepadidae
family scolytidae;large family of bark-boring or wood-boring short-beaked beetles. very destructive to forest and fruit trees
schizophyceae;former terms for cyanophyceae
prosopium;whitefishes
sialis;type genus of the sialidae
genus arum;type genus of the araceae: tuberous perennial herbs of europe and asia with usually heart-shaped leaves
genus python;old world boas
genus cnidoscolus;a genus of perennial plant with bristles. belonging to the family euphorbiaceae
family naticidae;moonshells
macleaya;east asian perennial herbs: plume poppy
order malvales;malvaceae. bombacaceae. elaeocarpaceae. sterculiaceae. tiliaceae
manihot;genus of economically important tropical plants: cassava
family leporidae;hares and rabbits
genus oniscus;type genus of the oniscidae. woodlice that cannot roll into a ball
order entomophthorales;coextensive with the family entomophthoraceae
family dasypodidae;armadillos
genus veronica;widespread genus of herbs with pink or white or blue or purple flowers: speedwell
genus cuminum;cumin
erignathus;bearded seals
family raphidae;extinct dodos and solitaires
genus catostomus;type genus of the family catostomidae
genus aspidiotus;a genus of diaspididae
genus siren;a genus of sirenidae
family phasmatidae;stick insects
eunectes;anacondas
genus aframomum;an african genus of plants of the family zingiberaceae
genus hydrastis;small genus of perennial herbs having rhizomes and palmate leaves and small solitary flowers. of northeastern united states and japan
lewisia;genus of western north american low-growing herbs having linear woolly leaves and large pink flowers
genus thrinax;small to medium-sized fan palms
achoerodus;a genus of labridae
genus goodyera;genus of small orchids of the northern hemisphere with creeping rhizomes and stalked ovate leaves and small flowers
majidae;spider crabs
genus strophanthus;genus of tropical asiatic and african shrubs and woody vines and small trees
order decapoda;lobsters. crayfish. crabs. shrimps. prawns
genus oceanites;a genus of hydrobatidae
subclass metatheria;pouched animals
genus sabal;american dwarf fan palms
genus squalus;spiny dogfishes
genus diospyros;a genus of trees or shrubs that have beautiful and valuable wood
family salmonidae;salmon and trout
mycteroperca;groupers
smilacaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
family luvaridae;louvars
musophaga;type genus of the musophagidae
basiliscus;a reptile genus of iguanidae
cardiospermum;tendril-climbing herbs or shrubs whose seeds have a white heart-shaped spot
family hemiramphidae;halfbeaks. marine and freshwater fishes closely related to the flying fishes but not able to glide
orycteropus;coextensive with the family orycteropodidae
family antennariidae;frogfishes. tropical spiny-finned marine fishes having large nearly vertical mouths. related to toadfishes and anglers
genus paracheirodon;a genus of characidae
chilopsis;one species: desert willow
goosefoot family;includes spinach and beets
genus dirca;deciduous shrub of north america: leatherwood
genus piranga;a genus of thraupidae
genus oxylebius;a genus of hexagrammidae
darlingtonia;one species: california pitcher plant
family squalidae;dogfishes having a spine in each dorsal fin
genus praunus;a genus of mysidae
genus phthorimaea;potato moths
entomophthoraceae;mostly parasitic lower fungi that typically develop in the bodies of insects
violet family;genera viola. hybanthus. hymenanthera. melicytus
genus milvus;a genus including the common european kits
potamogalidae;otter shrews
isospondyli;most primitive teleost fishes. all are soft-finned: salmon. trout. herring. shad. sardines. anchovies. whitefish. smelts. tarpon
sarracenia;pitcher plants
myricaceae;constituting the order myricales
family chrysochloridae;golden moles
geococcyx;roadrunners
helotiales;order of fungi having asci in a disk- to goblet-shaped apothecium
spyeria;fritillaries
dacrydium;australasian evergreen trees or shrubs
polemoniales;polemoniaceae. solanaceae. boraginaceae. labiatae. lentibulariaceae. pedaliaceae. in some classifications includes the order scrophulariales
gnetopsida;gymnospermous flowering plants. supposed link between conifers and angiosperms. in some systems classified as as class (gnetopsida) and in others as a subdivision (gnetophytina or gnetophyta)
genus xerobates;possible new genus for desert and texas tortoises based on recent research
tragopogon;genus of old world herbs with linear entire leaves and yellow or purple flower heads
genus pieris;decorative evergreen shrubs of woody vines
isatis;old world genus of annual to perennial herbs: woad
adelgidae;plant lice
class liliopsida;comprising seed plants that produce an embryo with a single cotyledon and parallel-veined leaves: includes grasses and lilies and palms and orchids. divided into four subclasses or superorders: alismatidae. arecidae. commelinidae. and liliidae
chlorophthalmidae;small family of soft-finned bottom-livers with large eyes. relatives of lizardfishes
family oxalidaceae;a family of widely distributed herbs of the order geraniales. have compound leaves and pentamerous flowers
pineus;a genus of adelgidae
yardgrass;coarse annual grass having fingerlike spikes of flowers. native to old world tropics. a naturalized weed elsewhere
meniscium;terrestrial ferns of tropical americas
suborder strepsirhini;in some classifications either coextensive with the lemuroidea or comprising the true lemurs
genus myrmecophaga;type genus of the myrmecophagidae. south american ant bear
rumex;docks: coarse herbs and shrubs mainly native to north temperate regions
family cerambycidae;long-horned beetles
family gracilariidae;leaf miners
estrilda;avadavats
darmera;1 species
genus endamoeba;the type genus of the family endamoebidae
genus platalea;type genus of the plataleidae
genus wolffiella;minute rootless aquatic herbs having flat fronds floating on or below the water surface and bearing 1-2 flowers per frond. america and africa
leiopelma;type and sole genus of the family leiopelmatidae
genus carpodacus;house finches and purple finches
genus bacillus;type genus of the bacillaceae. includes many saprophytes important in decay of organic matter and a number of parasites
family trichodontidae;two species of elongate compressed scaleless large-eyed fishes that live in sand or mud
bryum;type genus of the bryaceae: mosses distinguished by mostly erect and tufted gametophytes and symmetrical short-necked capsules
genus polybotrya;tropical american ferns. usually terrestrial when young but scandent later
genus petroselinum;parsley
genus pecten;type genus of the family pectinidae: sea and bay scallops
genus rhus;deciduous or evergreen shrubs and shrubby trees of temperate and subtropical north america, south africa, eastern asia and notheastern australia. usually limited to nonpoisonous sumacs
edentata;order of mammals having few or no teeth including: new world anteaters. sloths. armadillos
family octopodidae;a family of octopoda
coreidae;squash bugs and leaf-footed bugs
order eurotiales;order of fungi having a closed ascocarp (cleistothecium) with the asci scattered rather than gathered into a hymenial layer
genus octopus;type genus of the family octopodidae
blattodea;cockroaches. in some classifications considered an order
gnetophyta;gymnospermous flowering plants. supposed link between conifers and angiosperms. in some systems classified as as class (gnetopsida) and in others as a subdivision (gnetophytina or gnetophyta)
tulostomataceae;stalked puffballs
family ardeidae;herons. egrets. night herons. bitterns
genus cicer;chick-pea plant. asiatic herbs
armadillidium;type genus of the armadillidiidae
dasyuridae;dasyures. native cats. pouched mice. banded_anteaters. tasmanian devils
saccharum;tall perennial reedlike grass originally of southeastern asia: sugarcane
chamaecrista;genus of tropical herbs or subshrubs having sensitive leaves and suddenly dehiscing pods. some species placed in genus cassia
genus plectranthus;large genus of ornamental flowering plants. includes some plants often placed in the genus coleus
caryophyllaceae;large family of herbs or subshrubs (usually with stems swollen at the nodes)
guinea corn;sorghums of dry regions of asia and north africa
jordanella;flagfishes
family dactylopteridae;flying gurnards
family pristidae;large primitive rays with elongated snouts
argiopidae;orb-weaving spiders. cosmopolitan
genus ruta;type genus of the rutaceae. strong-scented eurasian herbs and subherbs
micrococcaceae;spherical or elliptical usually aerobic eubacteria that produce yellow or orange or red pigment. includes toxin-producing forms as well as harmless commensals and saprophytes
zea;corn
cenchrus;a genus of grasses of the family gramineae that have burs
genus platystemon;1 species: creamcups
family liparididae;snailfishes
lavandula;lavender
genus othonna;genus of western african herbs or shrubs
genus berberis;large genus of shrubs of temperate zones of new and old worlds
order scorpionida;true scorpions
genus centaurium;genus of low-growing herbs mostly of northern hemisphere having flowers with protruding spirally twisted anthers
sorbus;a genus of shrubs or trees of the family rocaceae having feathery leaves
order tubulidentata;an order of eutheria
genus euderma;a genus of vespertilionidae
sphyrnidae;hammerhead sharks. bonnethead sharks
order actinomycetales;filamentous or rod-shaped bacteria
filicopsida;ferns
leuciscus;a genus of fish including: dace, chub
genus chinchona;large genus of trees of andean region of south america having medicinal bark
order artiodactyla;an order of hooved mammals of the subclass eutheria (including pigs and peccaries and hippopotami and members of the suborder ruminantia) having an even number of functional toes
genus termes;type genus of the termitidae
genus arisarum;tuberous or rhizomatous perennial herbs. mainly mediterranean area
family myliobatidae;eagle rays
family hystricidae;old world porcupines
pholis;type genus of the pholidae: gunnels
taraxacum;an asterid dicot genus of the family compositae including dandelions
genus sericocarpus;small genus of herbs of the eastern united states: white-topped asters
pan;chimpanzees. more closely related to australopithecus than to other pongids
suborder lacertilia;true lizards. including chameleons and geckos
cancridae;many of the best known edible crabs
genus cecropia;large genus of tropical american trees that yield a bast fiber used for cordage and bark used in tanning. milky juice yields caoutchouc
genus verbena;type genus of the verbenaceae. genus of herbaceous perennials and subshrubs
compositae;plants with heads composed of many florets: aster. daisy. dandelion. goldenrod. marigold. lettuces. ragweed. sunflower. thistle. zinnia
family zannichelliaceae;alternative classification for some genera included in potamogetonaceae. one species
dolichotis;maras
family osmundaceae;large family of ferns widely distributed in temperate and tropical areas
hypermastigina;cellulose-producing flagellates
genus panthera;lions. leopards. snow leopards. jaguars. tigers. cheetahs. saber-toothed tigers
scardinius;rudds
hypentelium;a genus of fish in the family catostomidae
genus dacrycarpus;evergreen coniferous shrubs or trees of new zealand to malaysia and philippines
archidiskidon;a genus of elephantidae
genus coturnix;old world quail
genus acanthurus;type genus of the acanthuridae: doctorfishes
genus puffinus;shearwaters
family muscicapidae;old world (true) flycatchers
reithrodontomys;new world harvest mice
family cynocephalidae;a family of dermoptera
vicia;widely distributed genus of annual or perennial and often climbing herbs
genus ptychozoon;flying geckos
genus ornithogalum;sometimes placed in family hyacinthaceae
genus saururus;type genus of the saururaceae: lizard's-tails
betulaceae;monoecious trees and shrubs (including the genera betula and alnus and carpinus and corylus and ostrya and ostryopsis)
sisyridae;an arthropod family of the order neuroptera that includes spongeflies
genus momotus;type genus of the momotidae
oleaster family;shrubs or small trees often armed
family amiidae;only the bowfins
baiomys;pygmy mice
sarcoptes;type genus of the family sarcoptidae: itch mites
genus senna;genus of shrubs and trees and herbs many of which are often classified as members of the genus cassia
chlamydomonas;type genus of the chlamydomonadaceae. solitary doubly-flagellated plant-like algae common in fresh water and damp soil. multiply freely. often a pest around filtration plants
haliotis;type genus of the family haliotidae
genus balaeniceps;type genus of the balaenicipitidae: shoebills
stenotus;genus of western north american low evergreen shrubs growing in dense tufts
division pteridophyta;containing all the vascular plants that do not bear seeds: ferns, horsetails, club mosses, and whisk ferns. in some classifications considered a subdivision of tracheophyta
pipidae;tongueless frogs
buckwheat family;a family of plants of order polygonales chiefly of the north temperate zone. includes the buckwheats
genus apatura;large old world butterflies
class bryopsida;true mosses: bryophytes having leafy rather than thalloid gametophytes: comprises orders andreaeales. bryales. dicranales. eubryales. sphagnales
genus maxostoma;a genus of fish in the family catostomidae
kurakkan;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
calliphora;type genus of the calliphoridae: blowflies
genus malosma;one species. often included in the genus rhus
phyllitis;a genus of ferns belonging to the family polypodiaceae (in some classification systems included in genus asplenium)
potentilla;chiefly perennial northern hemisphere herbs and shrubs: cinquefoil
genus sequoiadendron;giant sequoias. sometimes included in the genus sequoia. until recently placed in the taxodiaceae
genus gymnadeniopsis;genus of north american terrestrial orchids usually included in genus habenaria
genus nostoc;type genus of the family nostocaceae: freshwater blue-green algae
subfamily loriinae;lories
genus trichodesmium;a genus of blue-green algae
sardinops;pilchards
cynips;type genus of the cynipidae: gall wasps
helxine;1 species. a dwarf creeping mat-forming evergreen herb
genus capsella;shepherd's purse
genus picris;genus of weedy old world yellow-flowered herbs usually containing a bitter-tasting substance: bitterweed
genus gobiesox;type genus of the gobiesocidae
elephantopus;perennial american herb
class plectomycetes;class of fungi in which the fruiting body is a cleistothecium (it releases spores only on decay or disintegration)
genus hypericum;large almost cosmopolitan genus of evergreen or deciduous shrubs and herbs with often showy yellow flowers. cosmopolitan except tropical lowlands and arctic or high altitudes and desert regions
family bromeliaceae;a family of tropical american plants of order xyridales including several (as the pineapple) of economic importance
santalum;parasitic indo-malayan trees
genus antilope;blackbucks
genus archilochus;a genus of trochilidae
genus gliricidia;small genus of low-branching profusely flowering trees of tropical america
culvers physic;a tall perennial herb having spikes of small white or purple flowers. common in eastern north america
genus edmontosaurus;duck-billed dinosaurs of canada
genus genlisea;small genus of carnivorous plants of tropical african swamps
fregata;type genus of the fregatidae
genus ciconia;type genus of the ciconiidae: european storks
calamagrostis;reed grass
family dasyproctidae;agoutis and pacas
asclepias;genus of chiefly north american perennial herbs: silkweed. milkweed
gastromycetes;fungi in which the hymenium is enclosed until after spores have matured: puffballs. earth stars. stinkhorn fungi
sphyrapicus;a genus of picidae
menyanthes;the type genus of the menyanthaceae. one species: bogbeans
polygonum;diverse genus of herbs or woody subshrubs of north temperate regions
family naiadaceae;monotypic family of aquatic plants having narrow leaves and small flowers
valley pocket gopher;of valleys and mountain meadows of western united states
genus bergenia;genus of perennial spring-blooming rhizomatous herbs with thick evergreen leaves. eastern asia
tarsioidea;in some classifications assigned to the suborder prosimii
order heliozoa;mostly freshwater protozoa
japanese barnyard millet;coarse annual grass cultivated in japan and southeastern asia for its edible seeds and for forage. important wildlife food in united states
genus centrocercus;sage grouse
ricinus;a genus of herb having only one known species: castor-oil plant
ulvales;an order of protoctista
sour gum family;a family of dicotyledonous trees of order myrtales that includes the sour gum trees
mandrillus;baboons
mustelidae;weasels. polecats. ferrets. minks. fishers. otters. badgers. skunks. wolverines. martens
genus languas;perennial rhizomatous herbs of asia and australia and polynesia having ginger-scented rhizomes
urginea;mediterranean liliaceous plants. sometimes placed in family hyacinthaceae
turbellaria;free-living flatworms
genus araucaria;a genus of araucaria
actinaria;sea anemones
hemiascomycetes;class of fungi in which no ascocarps are formed: yeasts and some plant parasites
trichophyton;a genus of fungus of the family moniliaceae. causes ringworm
genus poncirus;1 species: trifoliate orange
genus afrocarpus;dioecious evergreen trees or shrubs. equatorial to southern and southeastern africa: yellowwood. similar to trees or genus podocarpus
persoonia;australian undershrubs to small trees: geebungs
family rosaceae;a large family of dicotyledonous plants of order rosales. have alternate leaves and five-petaled flowers with numerous stamens
genus nerodia;north american water snakes
genus dalbergia;large genus of tropical trees having pinnate leaves and paniculate flowers and cultivated commercially for their dramatically grained and colored timbers
genus casmerodius;white egrets
genus rhizophora;type genus of the rhizophoraceae. a small genus of tropical trees and shrubs
sorghum bicolor;important for human and animal food. growth habit and stem form similar to indian corn but having sawtooth-edged leaves
genus parathelypteris;terrestrial ferns of warm and tropical asia and north america
family dasyatidae;sting rays
pipturus;an australian genus of woody plants of the family urticaceae
ornithorhynchus;type genus of the family ornithorhynchidae
rhinobatidae;primitive rays with guitar-shaped bodies
decapoda;squids and cuttlefishes
subclass acnidosporidia;a subclass of sporozoa
genus mobula;type genus of the mobulidae
family rutaceae;a family of dicotyledonous plants of order geraniales. have flowers that are divide into four or five parts and usually have a strong scent
mammuthus;extinct genus: mammoths
genus apis;type genus of the apidae: honeybees
mantispidae;mantispids
subfamily;(biology) a taxonomic category below a family
ceratopsidae;american ceratopsian dinosaurs
lepus;type genus of the leporidae: hares
nephrops;a genus of nephropsidae
order cydippida;ctenophores having two long pinnate tentacles
genus phoxinus;minnows
genus lepisma;type genus of the lepismatidae: silverfish
taxonomic group;"animal or plant group having natural relations"animal or plant group having natural relations
family arecaceae;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines usually having a tall columnar trunk bearing a crown of very large leaves. coextensive with the order palmales
genus upupa;type genus of the upupidae
pomaderris;a genus of australasian shrubs and trees
genus xylaria;type genus of xylariaceae. fungi with perithecia in the upper part of erect black woody stromata
genus helichrysum;large genus of mostly african and australian herbs and shrubs: everlasting flowers. in some classifications includes genus ozothamnus
genus sarcochilus;diminutive epiphytic or lithophytic orchids with clumped short-stemmed foliage and arching racemes of colorful flowers. australia and polynesia to southeastern asia
wintera;evergreen shrubs or small trees of australia and new zealand
genus drypis;1 species
family ephedraceae;ephedras: in some classifications included in the gnetaceae
genus anatotitan;genus of large duck-billed dinosaurs. late cretaceous
genus alcedo;type genus of the alcedinidae
family mastodontidae;extinct family: mastodons
order pulmonata;large order of gastropods usually breathing by means of a lung-like sac comprising most land snails and slugs and many freshwater snails
pelecanidae;pelicans
cynopterus;a genus of megachiroptera
subkingdom metazoa;multicellular animals having cells differentiated into tissues and organs and usually a digestive cavity and nervous system
genus styracosaurus;genus of horned dinosaurs
capella;snipes
tamaricaceae;family of desert shrubs and trees (mostly halophytes and zerophytes)
genus hydrilla;1 species
genus prenanthes;genus of north american and asiatic perennial herbs having pinnatisect leaves small heads of drooping yellowish to purple flowers. sometimes includes species often placed in genus nabalus
genus pezophaps;constituted by the extinct solitaire
genus clethra;type and sole genus of the clethraceae. deciduous shrubs or small trees: white_alder, summer-sweet
pavo;peafowl
family myrtaceae;trees and shrubs yielding a fragrant oil
genus salix;a large and widespread genus varying in size from small shrubs to large trees: willows
clamatores;used in some classification systems. a suborder or superfamily nearly coextensive with suborder tyranni. passeriformes having relatively simple vocal organs and little power of song: clamatorial birds
armeria;shrubby or herbaceous low-growing evergreen perennials
argyrotaenia;orange tortrix
genus anoectochilus;genus of delicate asiatic orchids
family arctiidae;tiger moths
cyphomandra;tree tomato
accipiter;type genus of the family accipitridae
genus lomogramma;large scandent ferns of southeastern asia
laccopetalum;1 species: giant buttercup
mandevilla;genus of tropical south american tuberous perennial woody vines with large racemose flowers and milky sap
genus megapodius;type genus of the megapodiidae
myxomycota;slime molds. organisms having a noncellular and multinucleate creeping vegetative phase and a propagative spore-producing stage: comprises myxomycetes and acrasiomycetes and plasmodiophoromycetes. in some classifications placed in the kingdom_protoctista
genus stanhopea;genus of tropical american epiphytic orchids
genus gallus;common domestic birds and related forms
cetorhinidae;in some older classifications considered the family of the basking sharks
superorder acanthopterygii;teleost fishes having fins with sharp bony rays
vittariaceae;one of a number of families into which polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems: genus vittaria
nesokia;bandicoot rats
order pelycosauria;edaphosaurus. dimetrodon
order radiolaria;marine protozoa
naemorhedus;gorals
pyrrosia;epiphytic or lithophytic or terrestrial ferns of tropical old world
catharacta;skuas
genus chlorophoneus;a genus of malaconotinae
lasiocampidae;tent caterpillars. eggars. lappet moths
belamcanda;a monocotyledonous genus of the family iridaceae
pteropsida;used in former classifications to include all ferns and flowering plants and divided into the three classes filicinae and gymnospermae and angiospermae
haplosporidia;an order in the subclass acnidosporidia
genus pluvianus;coursers
genus macrotis;a genus of peramelidae
dactylopterus;a genus of dactylopteridae
struthionidae;tall terrestrial birds: ostriches
genus euphorbia;type genus of the euphorbiaceae: very large genus of diverse plants all having milky juice
storax family;a widely distributed family of shrubs and trees of order ebenales
suborder sciuromorpha;large more or less primitive rodents: squirrels. marmots. gophers. beavers. etc.
family bufonidae;true toads
genus bolbitis;terrestrial or less than normally scandent ferns of tropical regions of northern hemisphere
genus triplochiton;small genus of tropical african trees with maplelike leaves
paguridae;hermit crabs
genus aegiceras;a genus of herbs of the family verbenaceae
lebistes;guppies
family vireonidae;small insectivorous american songbirds
family cebidae;all the new world monkeys except marmosets and tamarins
genus egeria;small genus of dioecious tropical aquatic plants
genus smyrnium;alexanders
family monotropaceae;used in some classification for saprophytic herbs sometimes included in the family pyrolaceae: genera monotropa and sarcodes
sarraceniales;plants that are variously modified to serve as insect traps: families sarraceniaceae. nepenthaceae. droceraceae
genus dendrobium;large genus and variable genus of chiefly epiphytic or lithophytic orchids of tropical and subtropical asia and australasia
genus viminaria;1 species: australian leafless shrubs: swamp oak
bulbous iris;any of various irises having a rootstock formed like a bulb
genus agkistrodon;copperheads
stylomecon;1 species: wind poppy
berycomorphi;an order of spiny-finned fish in the superorder acanthopterygii
scartella;a genus of blenniidae
genus conoclinium;mistflower
genus protium;genus of chiefly tropical american trees having fragrant wood and yielding gum elemi
paridae;titmice and chickadees
cuon;asiatic wild dog
genus carpenteria;1 species. sometimes placed in family saxifragaceae
pineapple family;a family of tropical american plants of order xyridales including several (as the pineapple) of economic importance
phocaena;porpoises
cheiranthus;old world perennial plants grown for their showy flowers
leucogenes;new zealand edelweiss
ophiurida;brittle stars
tinamiformes;coextensive with the family tinamidae
chirocephalus;fairy shrimp. brine shrimp
genus pelargonium;geraniums native chiefly to south africa. widely cultivated
order proteales;coextensive with the family proteaceae
zostera;(or in some classifications family zosteraceae) small genus of widely distributed marine plants
sylvilagus;north american rabbits
marchantia;type genus of marchantiaceae. liverworts that reproduce asexually by gemmae and have stalked antheridiophores
genus asplenium;in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae
nypa;monotypic genus of palms of australasia
myrmeleon;type genus of the myrmeleontidae: antlions
polygala;type genus of the polygalaceae: milkwort. seneca. snakeroot
class psilotatae;whisk ferns. comprising the family psilotaceae or psilotatae: vascular plants with no roots, partial if any leaf differentiation, and rudimentary spore sacs
family physeteridae;sperm whales
fumitory family;erect or climbing herbs of the northern hemisphere and southern africa: bleeding heart. dutchman's_breeches. fumitory. squirrel corn
family homaridae;large-clawed lobsters
genus gelechia;type genus of the gelechiidae: pink bollworms
tetraonidae;grouse
lota;burbot
family marsileaceae;clover ferns
epigaea;small creeping evergreen shrubs: trailing arbutus
family coccidae;scale insects
genus cynancum;genus of perennial tropical african lianas
agonus;type genus of the agonidae
genus kalmia;erect evergreen shrubs: mountain laurel
acrobates;a genus of phalangeridae
family machilidae;jumping bristletails
oleandraceae;one of a number of families into which polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems
genus eutamias;chipmunks of western america and asia
bessera;small genus of cormous perennials of mexico. sometimes placed in family alliaceae
genus archaeornis;a genus of fossil bird
asterid dicot genus;genus of more or less advanced dicotyledonous herbs and some trees and shrubs
genus piroplasma;type genus of the family babesiidae
genus pistia;1 species: water lettuce
homobasidiomycetes;category used in some classification systems for various basidiomycetous fungi including e.g. mushrooms and puffballs which are usually placed in the classes gasteromycetes and hymenomycetes
rubiaceae;widely distributed family of mostly tropical trees and shrubs and herbs. includes coffee and chinchona and gardenia and madder and bedstraws and partridgeberry
calycanthaceae;shrubs or small trees having aromatic bark. the eastern united states and eastern asia
genus anthriscus;chervil: of europe, north africa and asia
genus ceratonia;carobs
genus dendroctonus;genus of small bark beetles destructive especially to mature conifers
genus pipa;type genus of the pipidae
thallophyta;used only in former classifications: comprising what is now considered a heterogeneous assemblage of flowerless and seedless organisms: algae. bacteria. fungi. lichens
tilletiaceae;a family of smut fungi having a simple promycelium bearing the spores in an apical cluster
genus trachinotus;a genus of carangidae
banana family;treelike tropical asian herbs
bos;wild and domestic cattle. in some classifications placed in the subfamily bovinae or tribe bovini
genus matthiola;genus of old world plants grown as ornamentals
genus clitocybe;a genus of agarics with white to pale yellow spore deposits and fleshy stalks centrally attached to the cap and closely attached gills
genus leptinotarsa;colorado potato beetles
genus toxostoma;thrashers
belonidae;ferocious fishes of warm regions resembling but unrelated to the freshwater gars
falcatifolium;sickle pines: dioecious evergreen tropical trees and shrubs having sickle-shaped leaves. similar to dacrycarpus in habit. malaysia and philippines to new guinea and new ledonia
rivina;small genus of erect perennial shrubby herbs. tropical and subtropical america
sphaerocarpus;type genus of sphaerocarpaceae. liverworts with small many-lobed usually orbicular thallus
family schizaeaceae;small family of mainly tropical ferns
genus glaucium;herbs of europe and north africa and asia: horned poppy
family phalangeridae;phalangers. koalas
genus phallus;genus of fungi having the cap or pileus hanging free around the stem
branchiobdella;type genus of the branchiobdellidae: a small worm that lives on the gills or surface of a crayfish attached by a sucker
genus felicia;genus of tropical african herbs or subshrubs with usually blue flowers
genus antidorcas;springboks
phillyrea;small genus of evergreen shrubs of the mediterranean region
protium;genus of chiefly tropical american trees having fragrant wood and yielding gum elemi
aleppa grass;tall perennial grass that spreads by creeping rhizomes and is grown for fodder. naturalized in southern united states where it is a serious pest on cultivated land
ephemeroptera;mayflies
magnolia family;subclass_magnoliidae: genera liriodendron. magnolia. manglietia
genus vespa;type genus of the vespidae: various hornets and yellow jackets
papilionoideae;alternative name used in some classification systems for the family papilionaceae
genus cotinga;type genus of the cotingidae: cotingas
euphractus;a genus of dasypodidae
genus maclura;yellowwood trees or shrubs
family tropaeolaceae;coextensive with the genus tropaeolum
tyrannus;type genus of the tyrannidae: tyrant flycatchers
genus vanessa;painted beauty and red admiral
castoroides;extinct beavers of the pleistocene. of eastern and southern united states
genus arnica;large genus of herbs of north temperate and arctic regions
genus anthoceros;hornworts
muscicapidae;old world (true) flycatchers
contopus;pewees
family schizosaccharomycetaceae;a family of fungi belonging to order endomycetales
genus diplopterygium;scandent thicket-forming ferns of asia to western pacific
palm family;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines usually having a tall columnar trunk bearing a crown of very large leaves. coextensive with the order palmales
family furnariidae;e.g. ovenbirds
genus gaillardia;genus of western american hairy herbs with showy flowers
malaclemys;american terrapins
genus cardium;type genus of the family cardiidae: cockles
genus bankia;giant shipworms
family betulaceae;monoecious trees and shrubs (including the genera betula and alnus and carpinus and corylus and ostrya and ostryopsis)
snowberry;deciduous shrub of western north america having spikes of pink flowers followed by round white berries
eumycetes;category used in some classifications: coextensive with division eumycota
pandion;type genus of the pandionidae
sitophylus;a genus of bruchidae
order andreaeales;comprises a single genus: andreaea
nycticebus;a genus of lorisidae
genus schizophragma;small genus of deciduous climbing and creeping shrubs with white flowers in flat clusters. sometimes placed in family saxifragaceae
family hyacinthaceae;one of many families or subfamilies in which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
genus cornus;a rosid dicot genus of the family cornaceae including: dogwood. cornel: perennial chiefly deciduous shrubs or small trees of temperate regions of northern hemisphere
genus cricetus;type genus of the cricetidae: old world hamsters
engraulidae;anchovies
genus tripleurospermum;small genus comprising plants often included in genus matricaria
emberiza;old world buntings
phoronida;small phylum of wormlike marine animals
gallinula;gallinules
descurainia;includes annual or biennial herbs of america and europe very similar to and often included among those of genera sisymbrium or hugueninia. not recognized in some classification systems
order polypodiales;true (leptosporangiate) ferns
genus callitris;evergreen monoecious coniferous trees or shrubs: cypress pines
family oedogoniaceae;filamentous green algae
genus bombina;fire-bellied toads
chelicerata;spiders. scorpions. horseshoe crabs
order dinocerata;small order of primitive ungulates of the paleocene and eocene
ozothamnus;genus of australian shrubs and perennial herbs. sometimes included in genus helichrysum
genus trachodon;a reptile genus of the suborder euronithopoda
genus antilocapra;type and sole genus of the antilocapridae comprising one species
genus zoysia;lawn grasses native to southeastern asia and new zealand. grown especially in warm regions
exocycloida;flat sea urchins
family osmeridae;smelts
caenolestidae;small marsupials of southern south america
ragi;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
genus bemisia;sweet-potato whitefly
genus decumaria;small genus of woody climbers with adhesive aerial roots. sometimes placed in family saxifragaceae
panicum miliaceum;extensively cultivated in europe and asia for its grain and in united states sometimes for forage
dicotyledonae;comprising seed plants that produce an embryo with paired cotyledons and net-veined leaves. divided into six (not always well distinguished) subclasses (or superorders): magnoliidae and hamamelidae (considered primitive). caryophyllidae (an early and distinctive offshoot). and three more or less advanced groups: dilleniidae. rosidae. asteridae
genus gymnelis;a genus of zoarcidae
genus vanellus;eurasian lapwings
genus ephestia;small moths whose larvae spin silken tunnels and feed on stored food products
genus pholistoma;straggling herbs of southwestern united states
secotiales;an order of fungi belonging to the class gasteromycetes
genus aeonium;a genus of plants of the family crassulaceae
genus codiaeum;evergreen tropical trees and shrubs with thick and colorful leathery leaves. malaya and pacific islands
genus anacyclus;spanish pellitory
genus monilia;genus of parasitic yeastlike imperfect fungi having spherical or oval conidia in branched chains. some species usually placed in other genera especially genus candida
order;(biology) taxonomic group containing one or more families
pectinibranchia;large order of gastropods comprising univalve mollusks that have a single gill resembling a comb
genus ommastrephes;a genus of decapoda
phylum ectoprocta;coextensive with or a subphylum of bryozoa
placodermi;extinct group of bony-plated fishes with primitive jaws
genus paralithodes;a genus of lithodidae
genus citrullus;a dicot genus of the family cucurbitaceae including watermelons
lagenaria;bottle gourds
branchiopoda;primitive aquatic mainly freshwater crustaceans: fairy shrimps. brine shrimps. tadpole shrimps. can shrimps. water fleas
genus bouteloua;forage grasses
melolontha;a genus of melolonthidae
order jungermanniales;large order of chiefly tropical liverworts
genus menispermum;climbing herbs
genus phalaenoptilus;a genus of caprimulgidae
parietales;a large order of dicotyledonous plants of subclass dilleniidae
aspergillaceae;family of fungi including some common molds
genus capra;goats
genus serrasalmus;piranhas
adenanthera;small genus of trees of tropical asia and pacific areas
francoa;perennial evergreen herbs with white or pink flowers. chile
plectognathi;boxfishes. filefishes. globefishes. ocean sunfishes. triggerfishes. puffers
genus dasyatis;type genus of the dasyatidae
hyperodontidae;beaked whales. in some esp. former classifications included in the family physeteridae
genus carpinus;mostly deciduous monoecious trees or shrubs: hornbeams. sometimes placed in subfamily carpinaceae
genus brodiaea;genus of western united states bulbous plants with basal leaves and variously colored flowers. sometimes placed in family alliaceae
genus rhodanthe;genus of xerophytic herbs and shrubs of south africa and australia. sometimes included in genus helipterum
genus nestor;a genus of psittacidae
astropogon;a genus of fish of the family apogonidae
accipitridae;hawks. old world vultures. kites. harriers. eagles
arilus;a genus of reduviidae
andira;small genus of evergreen trees of tropical america and western africa
genus secale;cereal grass widely cultivated for its grain: rye
genus ulmus;type genus of family ulmaceae. deciduous trees having simple serrate leaves. widely distributed in temperate regions
genus broussonetia;paper mulberry
synapsida;extinct reptiles of the permian to jurassic considered ancestral to mammals
caranx;type genus of the carangidae
genus armillaria;genus of edible mushrooms having white spores an annulus and blue juice. some are edible. some cause root rot
genus mespilus;medlars
columba;type genus of the columbidae: typical pigeons
genus trigonella;old world genus of frequently aromatic herbs
order oedogoniales;simple or branched filamentous freshwater green algae
thevetia;genus of poisonous tropical american evergreen shrubs and trees having entire leaves and large cymose flowers
family crassulaceae;succulent shrubs and herbs
citrus limetta;lemon tree having fruit with a somewhat insipid sweetish pulp
myxosporidia;an order in the subclass cnidosporidia
family myrsinaceae;family of old world tropical trees and shrubs. some in florida
pediculati;anglers and batfishes. spiny-finned marine fishes having pectoral fins at the ends of armlike processes and a long movable spine on the dorsal fin to lure prey to the large mouth
family molossidae;mastiff bats. freetail bats
family megalosauridae;megalosaurs
lama;llamas
genus lycopus;small genus of nonaromatic herbs of the mind family
genus plesianthropus;former name for the genus australopithecus
lolium;darnel. ryegrass
genus antrozous;a genus of vespertilionidae
division chlorophyta;large division of chiefly freshwater eukaryotic algae that possess chlorophyll a and b, store food as starch, and cellulose cell walls. classes chlorophyceae, ulvophyceae, and charophyceae. obviously ancestral to land plants
picrasma;small genus of deciduous trees of tropical america and asia
fungus family;includes lichen families
moonseed family;herbaceous or woody climbers
atherurus;a genus of hystricidae
family aceraceae;a family of trees and shrubs of order sapindales including the maples
genus edaphosaurus;type genus of the edaphosauridae
family ichneumonidae;ichneumon flies
molothrus;cowbirds
cactaceae;constituting the order opuntiales
guttiferae;widely distributed family of chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines that produce oils and resins and some usable timber
pipa;type genus of the pipidae
order crocodilia;crocodiles. alligators. caimans. gavials
petaurus;a genus of phalangeridae
turritis;closely related to and often included in genus arabis
tibicen;harvest flies
genus epipactis;genus of hardy orchids with leafy-bracted racemes of greenish or purplish irregular flowers
micropterus;american freshwater black basses
genus loxia;crossbill
mimidae;sometimes considered a subfamily of troglodytidae: mockingbirds. catbirds. thrashers
panic grass;any grass of the genus panicum. grown for grain and fodder
family vittariaceae;one of a number of families into which polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems: genus vittaria
cursorius;coursers
genus ranunculus;annual, biennial or perennial herbs: buttercup. crowfoot
subclass euryalida;basket stars
plum yew family;a family of cephalotaxaceae
carduelis;in some classifications considered the type genus of a subfamily carduelinae of the fringillidae: goldfinches. siskins. redpolls. linnets
genus scutigerella;garden centipedes
rosmarinus;rosemary
chimaphila;small genus of evergreen herbs with long creeping rootstocks and shining leaves. north america. europe. east asia
family meleagrididae;turkeys and some extinct forms
genus caprimulgus;type genus of the caprimulgidae
scrophulariaceae;a family of dicotyledonous plants of the order polemoniales. includes figwort and snapdragon and foxglove and toadflax and speedwell and mullein. in some classifications placed in the order scrophulariales
genus nolina;perennial yuccalike plants of southern united states and mexico
eustoma;small genus of herbs of warm regions of southern north america to northern south america
genus lama;llamas
genus menippe;stone crabs
trypetidae;fruit flies. some leafminers
genus hexagrammos;type genus of the hexagrammidae
alosa;shad
genus cyclopes;only the silky anteater
genus lepiota;white-spored agarics including several edible and poisonous mushrooms: parasol mushrooms
genus talinum;genus of mainly american more-or-less succulent herbs
gaylussacia;deciduous or evergreen shrubs of north america: black huckleberries
rhinolophidae;old world leaf-nosed bats
subfamily anserinae;used in some classifications for the swans
allionia;small genus of chiefly american herbs
bassia;summer cypress
family cetorhinidae;in some older classifications considered the family of the basking sharks
family saururaceae;family of perennial aromatic herbs: genera saururus. anemopsis. houttuynia
genus chrysophrys;australian snapper
oniscidae;a family of isopoda
genus stokesia;1 species: stokes' aster
thaliacea;small class of free-swimming tunicates. sometimes classified as an order
genus euglena;type genus of the family euglenaceae: green algae with a single flagellum
mitchella;creeping evergreen herbs of north america
genus fusanus;quandong trees
elaeocarpus family;genus of trees and shrubs widely distributed in warm regions some yielding useful timber. in some classifications included in the family santalaceae
cuterebra;type genus of the cuterebridae
haematopodidae;oystercatchers
paralichthys;a genus of bothidae
botaurus;bitterns
equisetales;lower tracheophytes in existence since the devonian
genus liriope;sometimes placed in family convallariaceae: lilyturf
superclass gnathostomata;comprising all vertebrates with upper and lower jaws
family tayassuidae;peccaries
genus phleum;grasses native to temperate regions
ustilago;type genus of the ustilaginaceae. genus comprising the loose smuts
genus formica;type genus of the formicidae
trilisa;genus of herbs of southern united states
genus microsorium;tropical usually epiphytic ferns. africa to asia and polynesia to australia
dumetella;catbirds
winteraceae;small family of chiefly tropical shrubs and trees of genera drimys and pseudowintera. sometimes included in magnoliaceae
genus oriolus;type genus of the oriolidae
order pterosauria;extinct flying reptiles: pterosaurs
muscivora;a genus of tyrannidae
family acaridae;mites
holly family;widely distributed shrubs and trees
genus dahlia;genus of perennial tuberous-rooted plants of mexico and central america
order dinoflagellata;in some classifications considered a phylum of the kingdom protista. in others included in the plant phylum pyrrophyta
endamoebidae;a large family of endoparasitic amebas that invade the digestive tract
genus hymenaea;genus of tropical american timber trees
cryptobranchidae;large aquatic salamanders: hellbenders. giant salamanders
genus lanius;type genus of the laniidae: typical shrikes
family procaviidae;includes all recent members of the order hyracoidea
genus plectania;genus of fungi in the family pezizaceae closely related to and often included in genus peziza
chlorococcum;type genus of chlorococcales. unicellular green algae occurring singly or in a layer on soil or damp rock
viscaceae;in some classifications considered a subfamily of loranthaceae
family orobanchaceae;brown or yellow leafless herbs. sometimes placed in the order scrophulariales
papaver;type genus of the papaveraceae. chiefly bristly hairy herbs with usually showy flowers
fungus order;the order of fungi
cheloniidae;green turtles. hawksbills
sphecidae;mud daubers. some digger wasps
sanicula;chiefly american herbs: sanicle
lichenes;comprising the lichens which grow symbiotically with algae. sometimes treated as an independent group more or less coordinate with algae and fungi
order anoplura;sucking lice
genus ginglymostoma;nurse sharks
genus callitriche;water starworts
genus dryas;mountain avens
family tragulidae;chevrotains
melospiza;american song sparrow and swamp sparrow
genus leiophyllum;1 species: sand myrtle
naias;sole genus of the family naiadaceae
centrosema;a genus of chiefly tropical american vines of the family leguminosae having trifoliate leaves and large flowers
genus dryadella;comprises tropical american species usually placed in genus masdevallia: very dwarf plants having short tufted and usually unifoliate stems with usually solitary flowers
genus streptopelia;turtledoves
genus dipteryx;tropical american trees: tonka beans
congridae;marine eels
bumelia;deciduous or evergreen american shrubs small trees having very hard wood and milky latex
genus scutellaria;skullcap. helmet flower
dilleniaceae;chiefly tropical shrubs and trees and climbers having leathery leaves or flattened leaflike stems: genera dillenia. hibbertia
suborder lari;gulls. terns. jaegers. skimmers
family fabaceae;a large family of trees, shrubs, vines, and herbs bearing bean pods. divided for convenience into the subfamilies caesalpiniaceae. mimosaceae. papilionaceae
genus feijoa;small south american shrubs or trees
family lophosoriaceae;very small family of tree ferns
genus aeschynanthus;large genus of east indian ornamental woody epiphytic plants
sarcocystis;chief genus of the order sarcosporidia
family ostraciontidae;boxfishes
sundacarpus;1 species
bivalvia;oysters. clams. scallops. mussels
orthoptera;grasshoppers and locusts. crickets
genus allamanda;genus of tropical american woody vines
genus philadelphus;mock orange: type and sole genus of subphiladelphaceae. sometimes placed in family saxifragaceae
aspidelaps;african coral snakes
subfamily lutrinae;subdivision not used in some classifications: otters
perognathus;pocket mice
sclerotium;form genus of sterile imperfect fungi. many form sclerotia. some cause sclerotium disease in plants
pongamia;1 species: indian beech
turdus;type genus of the turdidae
zanthoxylum;deciduous or evergreen trees or shrubs: prickly ash
genus rhamnus;type genus of the rhamnaceae: buckthorns
stropharia;genus of brown-spored gill fungi closely related to agaricus. here placed in its own family strophariaceae
placuna;windowpane oysters
septobasidium;type genus of septobasidiaceae: smooth shelf fungi usually having a well-developed sometimes thick-walled hypobasidium
lymantria;type genus of the lymantriidae. a pest (lymantria means 'destroyer')
suborder ruminantia;cattle. bison. sheep. goats. antelopes. deer. chevrotains. giraffes. camels
ostracoda;seed shrimps
asarum;wild ginger
genus alouatta;howler monkeys
bennettitaceae;a family of fossil gymnospermous plants of the carboniferous
diplopterygium;scandent thicket-forming ferns of asia to western pacific
tofieldia;genus of perennial herbs of cool temperate regions. sometimes placed in family melanthiaceae
genus valeriana;genus of widely distributed perennial herbs and some shrubs
pinnotheridae;tiny soft-bodied crabs
notostraca;small freshwater crustaceans with a shield-shaped carapace
family alligatoridae;alligators. caimans
genus petunia;annual or perennial herbs or shrubs of tropical south america
clathraceae;family of fleshy stinkhornlike fungi
genus chlamydera;a genus of ptilonorhynchidae
varanus;type and sole extant genus of the varanidae
genus calystegia;climbing or scrambling herbs: bindweed
osmerus;type genus of the osmeridae
liliaceae;includes species sometimes divided among the following families: alliaceae. aloeaceae. alstroemeriaceae. aphyllanthaceae. asparagaceae. asphodelaceae. colchicaceae. convallariaceae. hemerocallidaceae. hostaceae. hyacinthaceae. melanthiaceae. ruscaceae. smilacaceae. tecophilaeacea. xanthorrhoeaceae
order ericales;ericaceae. clethraceae. diapensiaceae. epacridaceae. lennoaceae. pyrolaceae. monotropaceae
chrysolepis;two species: golden chinkapins
actinomycetacaea;filamentous anaerobic bacteria
cervus;type genus of the cervidae
genus crambe;annual or perennial herbs with large leaves that resemble the leaves of cabbages
chrysemys;painted turtles
family cheloniidae;green turtles. hawksbills
pygopus;type genus of the pygopodidae. snake-shaped pleurodont lizard with no forelimbs and only rudimentary hind limbs
praunus;a genus of mysidae
araujia;small genus of south american evergreen vines
lilium;type genus of liliaceae
choloepus;a genus of megalonychidae
genus escherichia;a genus of bacteria
stachys;large genus of usually woolly or hairy herbs or subshrubs or shrubs. temperate eastern hemisphere. tropical australasia
genus mesohippus;a genus of equidae
galleria;a genus of pyralidae
gastropoda;snails and slugs and their relatives
suborder microchiroptera;most of the bats in the world. all bats except fruit bats insectivorous bats
pleuronectes;type genus of the pleuronectidae
eurylaimi;broadbills
genus cambarus;a genus of astacidae
class hyalospongiae;sponges with 6-rayed siliceous spicules. choanocytes are restricted to finger-shaped chambers
genus trichoglossus;a genus of loriinae
family formicariidae;antbirds
symplocaceae;a dicotyledonous family of order ebenales
tamus;a genus of tuberous-rooted vines of the family dioscoreaceae. has twining stems and heart-shaped leaves and axillary racemes
eacles;imperial moths
fungi imperfecti;large and heterogeneous form division of fungi comprising forms for which no sexually reproductive stage is known: orders sphaeropsidales. melanconiales. moniliales. mycelia_sterilia
family columbidae;doves and pigeons
gastroboletus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family secotiaceae. they resemble boletes but the spores are not discharged from the basidium
birthwort family;birthworts. wild ginger
family cephalotaxaceae;a family of cephalotaxaceae
podicipitiformes;grebes
genus hernaria;low-growing old world herbs with minute bright green leaves
dictyoptera;in some classifications replaced by the orders (here suborders) blattodea (cockroaches) and manteodea (mantids). in former classifications often subsumed under a much broader order orthoptera
naiadaceae;monotypic family of aquatic plants having narrow leaves and small flowers
hylocichla;american thrushes: wood thrush. hermit thrush. veery
xenosaurus;type and sole genus of xenosauridae: slender-bodied mexican lizards having the upper surface covered with tiny granules and tubercles
genus heuchera;genus of north american herbs with basal cordate or orbicular leaves and small panicled flowers
family didelphidae;opossums
genus pisanosaurus;primitive ornithiscian dinosaur found in argentina. early triassic
sumac family;the cashew family. trees and shrubs and vines having resinous (sometimes poisonous) juice. includes cashew and mango and pistachio and poison ivy and sumac
genus spirula;genus of small cephalopods with many-chambered spiral shells resembling those of the extinct belemnites
castanopsis;evergreen trees and shrubs of warm regions valued for their foliage. southeastern united states and eastern australia and northern new zealand
gorgonacea;red corals and sea fans
genus tetrao;type genus of the tetraonidae: capercaillies
genus chorizema;genus of australian twining vines and small shrubs: flame peas
auriparus;a genus of paridae
genus strongylodon;genus of polynesian or southeastern asian shrubs or vines
loxodonta;a genus of elephantidae
genus potamogeton;a large genus of aquatic herbs found in quiet waters in temperate regions. leaves usually float on the water
family trypetidae;fruit flies. some leafminers
genus pagophila;a genus of laridae
order sirenia;manatees. dugongs. stellar's sea cow
basket spikemoss;spikemoss forming dense mats. eastern north america
genus cleome;tropical and subtropical annual or perennial herbs or low shrubs
genus oreopteris;3 species of ferns formerly included in genus dryopteris or thelypteris
aphididae;small soft-bodied plant lice
dovyalis;small genus of sometimes spiny shrubs or small trees. africa. india. sri lanka
rickettsiales;pleomorphic gram-negative microorganisms
genus hippocampus;seahorses
family lithodidae;deep-sea crabs of cold waters
lysichiton;skunk cabbage
betula;a genus of trees of the family betulaceae (such as birches)
genus luvarus;type genus of the luvaridae
anagyris;very small genus of shrubs of southern europe having backward curving seed pods
family ephippidae;small family comprising the spadefishes
peronosporaceae;parasitic fungi: downy mildews
agrobacterium;small motile bacterial rods that can reduce nitrates and cause galls on plant stems
tropidoclonion;lined snakes
phylum nematoda;unsegmented worms: roundworms. threadworms. eelworms
plectrophenax;snow bunting
genus burhinus;type genus of the burhinidae: stone curlews
genus pteridium;a genus of ferns belonging to the family dennstaedtiaceae
ammotragus;genus of wild sheep
palmales;coextensive with the family palmae: palms
genus naucrates;a genus of carangidae
irvingia;wild mango
genus physeter;type genus of the physeteridae
thunnus;tunas: warm-blooded fishes
ornithomimida;lightly built medium-size theropods
rhynchocephalia;tuataras. extinct forms from middle triassic
genus anemone;perennial herbs with tuberous roots and beautiful flowers. of north and south temperate regions
habenaria;chiefly terrestrial orchids with tubers or fleshy roots often having long slender spurs and petals and lip lobes. includes species formerly placed in genus gymnadeniopsis
genus catasetum;genus of tropical american orchids having showy male and female flowers usually on separate inflorescences
order pholidota;pangolins. in some former classifications included in the order edentata
saurosuchus;early archosaurian carnivore
family aulostomidae;trumpetfishes
anastomus;openbills
astacidae;crayfish
genus paspalum;a genus of perennial grasses of warm regions
genus carum;caraway
genus psychotria;tropical chiefly south american shrubs and trees
mycoplasmatales;coextensive with the family mycoplasmatacaea
nelumbo;sometimes placed in the family nymphaeaceae: lotuses
genus salmonella;a genus of bacteria
genus chrysaora;a genus of scyphozoa
sceloporus;spiny lizards
genus calliophis;asian coral snakes
genus spyeria;fritillaries
tetragonurus;a genus of stromateidae
genus rissa;a genus of laridae
family discoglossidae;family of old world toads having a fixed disklike tongue
genus radiigera;a genus of fungus belonging to the family geastraceae
genus lucilia;greenbottle flies
loxostege;garden webworms
family tenthredinidae;sawflies
genus tulipa;eurasian perennial bulbous herbs
genus calycophyllum;medium to large tropical american trees having shiny reddish-brown shredding bark
genus arundinaria;north american bamboo
genus epiphyllum;small genus of tropical american (mainly central america) cacti
acrostichum;in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae
alepisaurus;slender scaleless predaceous tropical deep-sea fishes
peltandra;small genus of north american marsh or aquatic herbs
family hygrophoraceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order agricales. the gills of these fungi have a clean waxy appearance
order solenichthyes;bellows fishes. shrimpfishes. cornetfishes. pipefishes. small order of chiefly tropical marine fishes of varied and bizarre form all having a small mouth at the end of a drawn-out tubular snout
cairina;a genus of anatidae
gymnocladus;small genus of deciduous trees of china and united states having paniculate flowers and thick pulpy pods
elaeocarpus;type genus of the family elaeocarpaceae
sitta;type genus of the sittidae
genus ficus;large genus of tropical trees or shrubs or climbers including fig trees
family regalecidae;ribbonfishes
spinus;in some classifications considered a subgenus of carduelis: siskins and new world goldfinches
aphasmidia;one of two subgroups of nematoda used in some classification systems
cynodontia;a division of triassic therapsida comprising small carnivorous tetrapod reptiles often with mammal-like teeth
hirudinidae;a family of hirudinea
genus cynara;artichoke. cardoon
genus bettongia;jerboa kangaroo
genus melocactus;genus of strongly ribbed globose or spheroid cacti of tropical south and central america and the caribbean
gerris;type genus of the gerrididae
genus lemaireocereus;tropical american cacti usually tall and branching with stout spines and funnel-shaped flowers and globular or ovoid often edible fruit
genus agapanthus;small genus of south african evergreen or deciduous plants. sometimes placed in family or subfamily aliaceae
genus peristedion;in some classifications the type genus of the subfamily peristediinae: armored sea robins
boykinia;genus of perennial rhizomatous herbs with flowers in panicles. north america. japan
microcentrum;katydids
phasianidae;pheasants. quails. partridges
cleistes;terrestrial orchids of north and south america having slender fibrous roots. allied to genus pogonia
hepaticopsida;liverworts: comprises orders anthocerotales. jungermanniales. marchantiales. sphaerocarpales
family geastraceae;a family of earthstar fungi belonging to the order lycoperdales
cytisus scoparius;deciduous erect spreading broom native to western europe. widely cultivated for its rich yellow flowers
genus achimenes;genus of tropical perennial american herbs
broomcorn;tall grasses grown for the elongated stiff-branched panicle used for brooms and brushes
genus morchella;genus of edible fungi: morel
bomarea;large genus of tropical american vines having showy often spotted umbellate flowers. sometimes placed in family liliaceae especially subfamily alstroemeriaceae
subclass telosporidia;parasitic sporozoans that form spores containing one or more infective sporozoites
family entolomataceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order agaricales
agamidae;an old world reptile family of sauria
chrysochloridae;golden moles
family capsidae;leaf bugs
genus enceliopsis;small genus of xerophytic herbs of southwestern united states
littorinidae;periwinkles
hypoderma;in some classifications considered the type genus of the family hypodermatidae: warble flies
genus fagopyrum;buckwheat. in some classifications included in the genus polygonum
genus torreya;nutmeg-yews
eragrostis;annual or perennial grasses of tropics and subtropics
flagellata;protozoa having flagella
genus tupinambis;tejus
genus darmera;1 species
family grossulariaceae;in some classifications considered a part of the family saxifragaceae: plants whose fruit is a berry
muroidea;essential equal to suborder myomorpha with the dipodidae excluded
malacosoma;tent caterpillars
genotype;a group of organisms sharing a specific genetic constitution
cacalia;genus of tall smooth herbs of forested mountains of europe and asia minor. in some classifications includes many plants usually placed in genus emilia
genus mirounga;elephant seals
paranthias;a genus of serranidae
nyctanassa;american night herons
genus arrhenatherum;oat grass
genus zamia;genus of small evergreen tropical and subtropocal american cycads
genus ribes;a flowering shrub bearing currants or gooseberries. native to northern hemisphere
family callionymidae;dragonets
teucrium;large widely distributed genus of perennial herbs or shrubs or subshrubs. native to mediterranean region to western asia
family trachipteridae;ribbonfishes
cyamus;whale lice
bennettitis;type of the bennettitales
genus psenes;a genus of stromateidae
rhodymenia;type genus of the family rhodymeniaceae
celtis;large genus of trees and shrubs with berrylike fruit
conodonta;extinct order of primitive vertebrates. the precise taxonomy is not clear. in some classifications considered a separate phylum
family lepidobotryaceae;family created in 1950 solely for the classification of a distinctive african tree repeatedly classified in other families. trees long believed to exist only in africa
martes;martens
chelone;herbaceous perennials: shellflower
chrysochloris;type genus of the chrysochloridae
genus macrozoarces;a genus of zoarcidae
family fregatidae;frigate birds
pieridae;cabbage butterflies. sulphur butterflies
tyrannidae;new world tyrant flycatchers most numerous in central and south america but also in the united states and canada
genus pseudowintera;evergreen shrubs or small trees of australia and new zealand
order batoidei;fish with dorsoventrally flattened bodies. includes: rays. skates. guitarfishes. sawfishes
genus gobio;true gudgeons
elaeagnaceae;shrubs or small trees often armed
roystonea;a monocotyledonous genus of west indian feather palms
genus bombus;bumblebees
belemnoidea;order of extinct dibranchiate cephalopods related to the surviving spirulas
box family;widely distributed evergreen shrubs and trees
caryocaraceae;small genus of tropical south american trees
genus coryphantha;mainly globose cacti of southwestern united states and mexico covered with many nodules. superficially resembling and formerly included in genus mammilaria
ochroma;1 species: balsa
genus xyphophorus;swordtails
family priacanthidae;small carnivorous percoid fishes found worldwide in tropical seas
russula;large genus of stout-stemmed white-spored fungi with neither annulus nor volva. brittle caps of red or purple or yellow or green or blue. differs from genus lactarius in lacking milky juice
family tribonemaceae;simple filamentous freshwater yellow-green algae
cygnus;a genus of anatidae
taxodium;bald cypress. swamp cypress
great millet;important for human and animal food. growth habit and stem form similar to indian corn but having sawtooth-edged leaves
tunicata;tunicates
lepisma;type genus of the lepismatidae: silverfish
caretta;loggerhead turtles
genus rhexia;deer grass
vincetoxicum;genus of chiefly tropical american vines having cordate leaves and large purple or greenish cymose flowers. supposedly having powers as an antidote
cinclidae;water ouzels
tethyidae;sea hares
genus connarus;large genus of tropical trees and shrubs. type genus of the connaraceae
calla;water arum
phalacrocorax;type genus: coextensive with the family phalacrocoracidae
arenaria;sandworts
genus padda;a genus of ploceidae
genus onosmodium;a genus of north american perennial herbs of the family boraginaceae
family gryllidae;crickets
genus aesculus;deciduous trees or some shrubs of north america. southeastern europe. eastern asia
rupicapra;chamois
albula;type and sole genus of the family albulidae
swamp maple;maple of eastern and central america. 5-lobed leaves scarlet and yellow in autumn
dracunculidae;greatly elongated roundworm
genus auricularia;type genus of the auriculariaceae
genus caprella;skeleton shrimp
genus andreaea;brown or blackish alpine mosses having a dehiscent capsule with 4 longitudinal slits
sciaenidae;warm-water marine fishes including the drums and grunts and croakers and sea trout
pyralididae;bee moths. corn borers. flour moths
alnus;alders
family viperidae;old world vipers
bombycidae;chinese silkworm moth
holothuridae;a family of holothuroidea
family bucerotidae;hornbills
procellaria;type genus of the procellariidae
pedioecetes;sharp-tailed grouse
family eschrichtiidae;comprising only the gray whales
australopithecus;extinct genus of african hominid
genus conopodium;a genus of dicotyledonous plants of the family umbelliferae
dinornithiformes;a ratite bird order: recently extinct flightless birds of new zealand
salvinia;type genus of the salviniaceae: water ferns
desmodus;type genus of the desmodontidae: vampire bats
droseraceae;a family of carnivorous herbs and shrubs
mangifera;tropical tree native to asia bearing fleshy fruit
subfamily sylviinae;alternative classification for the old world warblers
calvatia;genus of puffballs having outer casings whose upper parts break at maturity into angular pieces to expose the spores
tabanidae;horseflies
order amoebina;the animal order including amoebas
dematiaceae;family of imperfect mushrooms having dark-colored hyphae or conidia
subfamily carpinaceae;used in some classification systems for the genera carpinus. ostryopsis. and ostryopsis
clathrus;type genus of the clathraceae
genus lygodium;chiefly tropical climbing ferns
phyllostachys;medium and large bamboos
iberis;old world herbs and subshrubs: candytuft
order mycelia sterilia;order of imperfect fungi having no known spore stage
chelonia;tortoises and turtles
usnea;widely distributed lichens usually having a grayish or yellow pendulous freely branched thallus
genus pleione;small genus of dwarf orchids. india to thailand and taiwan
genus melilotus;old world herbs: the sweet clovers
genus ixia;a monocotyledonous genus of the family iridaceae
genus callophis;asian coral snakes
lamellibranchia;oysters. clams. scallops. mussels
genus thielavia;genus of fungi having spherical brown perithecia and some conidia borne in chains. cause root rot
stichaeidae;pricklebacks
bathyergidae;mole rats. sand rats
surnia;a genus of hawk-like owls
pterodactylus;a reptile genus of pterodactylidae
order gnetales;chiefly tropical or xerophytic woody plants. practically unknown as fossils but considered close to the ancestral line of angiosperms
mahogany family;tropical trees and shrubs including many important timber and ornamental trees
genus madia;genus of sticky herbs with yellow flowers open in morning or evening but closed in bright light
suborder prosauropoda;the earliest known dinosaurs
menuridae;lyrebirds
order embioptera;web spinners
bubulcus;small white egrets
genus lampropeltis;king snakes and milk snakes
anasa;squash bugs
genus lepisosteus;type genus of the lepisosteidae: freshwater gars
cypriniformes;an order of animals including almost entirely freshwater fishes: characins. loaches. carp. suckers. sometimes classified as a suborder of ostariophysi
genus vespertilio;a genus of vespertilionidae
genus gypsophila;mediterranean herbs having small white or pink flowers
order caryophyllales;corresponds approximately to the older group centrospermae
subclass ophiurida;brittle stars
genus fothergilla;small genus of deciduous shrubs of the southeastern united states
spizella;chipping sparrow. field sparrow. tree sparrow
fremontodendron;flannelbush
eranthis;winter aconite
buckbean family;a dicotyledonous family of marsh plants of order gentianales
characidae;tropical freshwater fishes of africa and s and central america
genus diplococcus;a genus of bacteria
family compositae;plants with heads composed of many florets: aster. daisy. dandelion. goldenrod. marigold. lettuces. ragweed. sunflower. thistle. zinnia
genus oryctolagus;old world rabbits
genus leccinum;a genus of fungi belonging to the family boletaceae
aristolochia;birthworts. dutchman's pipe
genus trachelospermum;genus of asiatic woody vines with milky sap in leaves and stems
genus hoheria;small genus of shrubs and small trees of new zealand: lacebarks
telopea;australian evergreen shrubs: waratahs
family fumariaceae;erect or climbing herbs of the northern hemisphere and southern africa: bleeding heart. dutchman's_breeches. fumitory. squirrel corn
genus mutisia;genus of south american shrubs or lianas having large flower heads with feathery pappuses
corixidae;water bugs
order cilioflagellata;in some classifications considered a phylum of the kingdom protista. in others included in the plant phylum pyrrophyta
genus tellima;genus of hardy perennials with palmately lobed leaves and long racemes of small nodding five-petaled flowers. western north america
genus barosaurus;huge quadrupedal herbivorous dinosaur. late jurassic
genus ricinus;a genus of herb having only one known species: castor-oil plant
pittidae;pittas
opisthocomus;type genus of the opisthocomidae: hoatzins
genus ischigualastia;early reptile found in argentina
genus arisaema;tuberous or rhizomatous herbaceous perennials
myrtales;myrtaceae. combretaceae. elaeagnaceae. haloragidaceae. melastomaceae. lecythidaceae. lythraceae. rhizophoraceae. onagraceae. lecythidaceae. punicaceae
genus acanthocybium;wahoos
genus molluga;carpetweeds
genus suksdorfia;small genus of rhizomatous herbs of northwestern america and south america
perciformes;one of the largest natural groups of fishes of both marine and fresh water: true perches. basses. tuna
dracocephalum;genus of american herbs and dwarf shrubs of the mind family: dragonheads
protozoa;in some classifications considered a superphylum or a subkingdom. comprises flagellates. ciliates. sporozoans. amoebas. foraminifers
genus asperula;woodruff
amoebina;the animal order including amoebas
chelifer;a genus of chelonethida
lutra;in some classifications considered a genus of the subfamily lutrinae
genus ephedra;type and sole genus of ephedraceae: tropical and subtropical evergreen shrubby or creeping plants native to dry and inhospitable regions
genus cucumis;cucumbers. muskmelons
lepidochelys;ridleys
genus paprilus;a genus of stromateidae
culvers root;a tall perennial herb having spikes of small white or purple flowers. common in eastern north america
liriodendron;tulip trees
genus kirkia;small genus of tropical south african trees and shrubs
order cycadales;primitive tropical gymnosperms abundant in the mesozoic, now reduced to a few scattered tropical forms
dipsacaceae;chiefly southern european herbs with flowers usually in dense cymose heads
macropus;type genus of the family macropodidae: typical kangaroos and wallabies
adapid group;extinct small mostly diurnal lower primates that fed on leaves and fruit. abundant in north america and europe 30 to 50 million years ago. their descendents probably include the lemurs. some authorities consider them ancestral to anthropoids but others consider them only cousins
hyracoidea;hyraxes and some extinct animals
genus heteranthera;mud plaintains
family trilliaceae;small family of herbs having flowers with 3 petals and 3 sepals. in some classification systems considered a subfamily of the liliaceae
family ulmaceae;a dicot family of the order urticales including: genera ulmus. celtis. planera. trema
genus hylophylax;a genus of formicariidae
persea;avocado
genus batrachoseps;slender salamanders
squatinidae;bottom-dwelling ray-like sharks
venus;type genus of the family veneridae: genus of edible clams with thick oval shells
genus lactuca;milky-juiced herb: lettuce. prickly lettuce
family balaenopteridae;rorquals. blue whales
family fissurellidae;marine limpets
genus cinnamomum;asiatic and australian aromatic trees and shrubs
genus combretum;type genus of the combretaceae: tropical and subtropical small shrubs and trees
genus borago;perennial herbs of the mediterranean region
paeoniaceae;perennial rhizomatous herbs and shrubs. of temperate europe and north america
salicales;coextensive with the family salicaceae
tilletia;a genus of fungi belonging to the family tilletiaceae
ameiurus;type genus of the ameiuridae: bullhead catfishes
genus canis;type genus of the canidae: domestic and wild dogs. wolves. jackals
genus colutea;small genus of eurasian shrubs with yellow flowers and bladdery pods
genus avahi;a genus of indriidae
mammut;extinct type genus of the mammutidae: mastodons
hippodamia;genus of ladybugs
genus echinococcus;tapeworms
purslane family;family of usually succulent herbs. cosmopolitan in distribution especially in americas
division gymnospermophyta;plants having naked seeds not enclosed in an ovary. in some systems considered a class (gymnospermae) and in others a division (gymnospermophyta). comprises three subdivisions (or classes): cycadophytina (class cycadopsida) and gnetophytina (class gnetopsida) and coniferophytina (class coniferopsida). in some classifications the coniferophytina are divided into three groups: pinophytina (class pinopsida) and ginkgophytina (class ginkgopsida) and taxophytina (class taxopsida)
family tabanidae;horseflies
scophthalmus;a genus of bothidae
eschrichtius;type and sole genus of the eschrichtiidae
proboscidea;in some classifications included in the genus martynia and hence the two taxonomic names for some of the unicorn plants
dibranchiata;comprising all living cephalopods except the family nautilidae: the orders octopoda (octopuses) and decapoda (squids and cuttlefish)
genus elanus;a genus of small kites of both old and new worlds
celastrus;type genus of the celastraceae: bittersweet and shrubby bittersweet. woody vines and shrubs native chiefly to asia and australia
genus lablab;1 species: hyacinth bean
nuphar;spatterdocks
batoidei;fish with dorsoventrally flattened bodies. includes: rays. skates. guitarfishes. sawfishes
suborder pinnipedia;seals. sea lions. walruses
genus malpighia;type genus of the malpighiaceae
genus trichomanes;bristle ferns. kidney ferns
actinidiaceae;tropical trees or shrubs or woody vines
race;(biology) a taxonomic group that is a division of a species. usually arises as a consequence of geographical isolation within a species
texas millet;annual weedy grass used for hay
genus porphyra;a genus of protoctista
genus tipuana;1 species: south american tree: tipu_tree
dibranchia;comprising all living cephalopods except the family nautilidae: the orders octopoda (octopuses) and decapoda (squids and cuttlefish)
stenochlaena;large tropical ferns. some epiphytic climbers and some terrestrial bog ferns. africa. asia. australasia
genus miltonia;genus of tropical american orchids
family anguillidae;eels that live in fresh water as adults but return to the sea to spawn
genus symplocarpus;one species: skunk cabbage
gerbillus;type genus of the gerbillinae: typical gerbils
anapsida;oldest known reptiles: turtles. extinct permian forms
family bothidae;a family of fish of the order heterosomata
genus mazama;brockets
genus argentina;type genus of the argentinidae: argentines
citroncirus;a cross between citrus sinensis and poncirus_trifoliata
anigozanthus;genus of monocotyledonous plants with curious woolly flowers on sturdy stems above a fan of sword-shaped leaves. includes kangaroo's paw and cat's paw and australian sword lily. sometimes placed in family amaryllidaceae
xyridaceae;plants of tropical to temperate regions. usually in wet places
athyrium;temperate and tropical lady ferns. in some classifications placed in family polypodiaceae or in the genus asplenium
bambusa;tall tender clumping bamboos
branta;wild geese
genus saimiri;squirrel monkeys
genus dalea;indigo bush
trichoglossus;a genus of loriinae
baptisia;genus of north american plants with showy pealike flowers and an inflated pod
squalus;spiny dogfishes
nitella;fragile branching stoneworts
sidalcea;genus of showy plants of western north america having palmate leaves and variously colored racemose flowers
leucanthemum;comprises plants often included in the genus chrysanthemum
suborder oscines;two names for the suborder of typical songbirds
genus cyclopterus;type genus of the cyclopteridae: lumpfishes
genus monstera;tropical american climbing plant with deeply incised leaves
genus caltha;a genus of caltha
family leitneriaceae;coextensive with the genus leitneria. commonly isolated in a distinct order
heterodon;a genus of small colubrid snakes containing the north american hognose snakes
genus giardia;flagellates parasitic in intestines of vertebrates
bombycillidae;a family of birds of the suborder oscines
deparia;classification used for 5 species of terrestrial ferns usually placed in other genera
steatornithidae;oilbirds
genus camponotus;carpenter ants
lanthanotidae;stout-bodied lizards
family piperaceae;tropical woody vines and herbaceous plants having aromatic herbage and minute flowers in spikelets
family lobeliaceae;not recognized in all classification systems. in some classifications lobeliaceous plants are included in family campanulaceae
characeae;green algae superficially resembling horsetail ferns: stoneworts
superfamily tyrannidae;new world tyrant flycatchers most numerous in central and south america but also in the united states and canada
genus egretta;small old and new world herons
family agaricaceae;large family including many familiar mushrooms
genus parula;type genus of the parulidae: wood warblers
genus dendranthema;comprises plants often included in the genus chrysanthemum
genus aotus;douroucoulis
entoprocta;sometimes considered a subphylum of bryozoa
lophophora;two species of small cacti of northeastern mexico and southwestern united states having rounded stems covered with jointed tubercles: mescal
lemaireocereus;tropical american cacti usually tall and branching with stout spines and funnel-shaped flowers and globular or ovoid often edible fruit
family musophagidae;touracos
family platanaceae;coextensive with the genus platanus: plane trees
genus mastodon;extinct type genus of the mammutidae: mastodons
subclass pantotheria;generalized extinct mammals widespread during the jurassic. commonly conceded to be ancestral to marsupial and placental mammals
ustilaginaceae;a fungus family of loose smuts
genus serinus;old world finches: e.g. canaries and serins
family schistosomatidae;a family of trematoda
adiantum;cosmopolitan genus of ferns: maidenhair ferns. in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae or adiantaceae
genus amelanchier;north american deciduous trees or shrubs
pteroclididae;sandgrouses
emydidae;box and water turtles
rhipsalis;large genus of epiphytic or lithophytic unarmed cacti with usually segmented stems and pendulous branches. flowers are small followed by berrylike fruits
yard grass;coarse annual grass having fingerlike spikes of flowers. native to old world tropics. a naturalized weed elsewhere
genus cimex;type genus of the cimicidae: bedbugs
pediocactus;low-growing cacti of the american great plains
sclerodermataceae;a family of fungi or order sclerodermatales with a single-layered peridium. includes earthballs
order embiodea;web spinners
genus dioscorea;yams
genus chalcis;type genus of the chalcididae
seseli;moon carrots
araneae;spiders
syringa;genus of old world shrubs or low trees having fragrant flowers in showy panicles: lilacs
family fistulariidae;cornetfishes
genus periplaneta;cosmopolitan genus of large cockroaches
family ebenaceae;fruit and timber trees of tropical and warm regions including ebony and persimmon
genus acheta;common house and field crickets
japanese maple;ornamental shrub or small tree of japan and korea with deeply incised leaves. cultivated in many varieties
aphriza;a genus of scolopacidae
tarrietia;small genus of east asian and australian timber trees
proterochampsa;early archosaurian carnivore
genus agrobacterium;small motile bacterial rods that can reduce nitrates and cause galls on plant stems
family ceratostomataceae;fungi having carbonous perithecia with long necks
genus tursiops;a genus of delphinidae
cimicifuga;small genus of perennial herbs of north temperate regions: bugbane
eurylaimidae;coextensive with the suborder eurylaimi
hymenogastrales;an order of fungi belonging to the class gasteromycetes. has a distinct basidiocarp with a fleshy or waxy gleba (sometimes placed in subclass homobasidiomycetes)
genus anthemis;dog fennel. in some classification systems includes plants of genus chamaelum
tecophilaeacea;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
fringillidae;finches: goldfinches. bullfinches. chaffinches. siskins. canaries. cardinals. grosbeaks. crossbills. linnets. buntings
goosefoot maple;maple of eastern north america with striped bard and large 2-lobed leaves clear yellow in autumn
russulaceae;used in some classification systems for the genus russula
genus kogia;pygmy sperm whales
genus trialeurodes;a genus of aleyrodidae
geraniales;an order of plants of subclass rosidae including geraniums and many other plants. see euphorbiaceae. geraniaceae. rutaceae. malpighiaceae. simaroubaceae. meliaceae. zygophyllaceae. tropaeolaceae
tetragonia;new zealand spinach
rhodophyta;lower plants. mostly marine and littoral eukaryotic algae
psittacus;type genus of the psittacidae: usually restricted to the african gray
frankliniella;tobacco thrips
genus tribulus;annual or perennial herbs or subshrubs of warm regions
order thecodontia;extinct terrestrial reptiles having teeth set in sockets. of the late permian to triassic
vireonidae;small insectivorous american songbirds
ditch reed;tall north american reed having relative wide leaves and large plumelike panicles. widely distributed in moist areas. used for mats, screens and arrow shafts
nidularia;type genus of the nidulariaceae
ceratitis;mediterranean fruit flies
gerridae;mojarras
family sphecidae;mud daubers. some digger wasps
family sillaginidae;small family of small food fishes of shallow indo-pacific waters
genus dugong;type genus of the dugongidae comprising only the dugongs
equetus;drumfish
genus cycnoches;genus of epiphytic or terrestrial tropical american orchids
genus dracocephalum;genus of american herbs and dwarf shrubs of the mind family: dragonheads
genus pyrophorus;tropical click beetles
genus eriodictyon;small genus of evergreen shrubs of southwestern united states and mexico
bombacaceae;tropical trees with large dry or fleshy fruit containing usually woolly seeds
hemiptera;plant bugs. bedbugs. some true bugs. also includes suborders heteroptera (true bugs) and homoptera (e.g. aphids. plant lice. cicadas)
hemp family;2 genera of erect or twining wind-pollinated herbs: genera cannabis and humulus. term not used in all classifications. in some the genus cannabis is placed in the family moraceae and the genus humulus in the family urticaceae
unio;type genus of the family unionidae
genus genetta;genets
burmeisteria;a genus of dasypodidae
genus medicago;a genus of herbs that resemble clover
liliidae;one of four subclasses or superorders of monocotyledones. comprises 17 families including: liliaceae. alliaceae. amaryllidaceae. iridaceae. orchidaceae. trilliaceae
genus manta;a genus of mobulidae
genus elymus;tall tufted perennial grasses (such as lyme grass or wild rye)
gruidae;cranes
tarsius;type and sole genus of the family tarsiidae
alliaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted. includes especially genus allium
genus phyllostachys;medium and large bamboos
family helotiaceae;a fungus family of order helotiales
genus circaetus;harrier eagles
urophycis;hakes
mesua;genus of tropical asiatic trees having large solitary flowers
saprolegnia;aquatic fungi growing chiefly on plant debris and animal remains
genus cercocebus;mangabeys
genus tacca;genus of tropical plants with creeping rootstocks and small umbellate flowers
acocanthera;small genus of trees and shrubs containing strongly toxic cardiac glycosides. arabia to africa
genus amphicarpaea;very small genus of twining vines of north america and asia: hog peanut
family entomophthoraceae;mostly parasitic lower fungi that typically develop in the bodies of insects
genus alepisaurus;slender scaleless predaceous tropical deep-sea fishes
juniperus;junipers
menyanthaceae;a dicotyledonous family of marsh plants of order gentianales
dictyophera;closely related to genus phallus distinguished by an indusium hanging like a skirt from below the pileus
genus andryala;genus of hardy hairy latex-producing perennials of mediterranean area
cadra;a genus of pyralidae
genus antirrhinum;a genus of herbs of the family scrophulariaceae with brightly colored irregular flowers
water lily family;dicot aquatic plants
genus tortrix;type genus of the tortricidae
genus pycnanthemum;american mountain mint
family iguanodontidae;iguanodons
egretta;small old and new world herons
hylactophryne;barking frogs
genus sebastodes;rockfishes
kingdom;one of five biological categories: monera or protista or plantae or fungi or animalia
scombroidea;mackerels. tunas. albacores. bonitos. swordfishes. sailfishes
gomphotheriidae;elephants extinct since the pleistocene
order dinornithiformes;a ratite bird order: recently extinct flightless birds of new zealand
psophiidae;trumpeters
genus ascaphus;type genus of the ascaphidae. in some classifications included in the family leiopelmatidae
genus lofortyx;california quail
genus macronectes;giant petrels
mertensia;a genus of herbs belonging to the family boraginaceae that grow in temperate regions and have blue or purple flowers shaped like funnels
ceratopteris;water ferns
genus pyrocephalus;a genus of tyrannidae
micruroides;coral snakes
liparididae;snailfishes
family geomyidae;north american pocket gophers
family antedonidae;feather stars. formerly called family comatulidae
family hemerocallidaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted. includes genus hemerocallis
torchwood family;resinous or aromatic chiefly tropical shrubs or trees
genus septobasidium;type genus of septobasidiaceae: smooth shelf fungi usually having a well-developed sometimes thick-walled hypobasidium
family lycopodiaceae;a family of ferns belonging to the order lycopodiales
genus megatherium;type genus of the megatheriidae
order pseudomonadales;one of two usually recognized orders of true bacteria. gram-negative spiral or spherical or rod-shaped bacteria usually motile by polar flagella. some contain photosynthetic pigments
family gerrididae;an arthropod family that includes water striders
genus ptilocercus;pentails
genus acokanthera;small genus of trees and shrubs containing strongly toxic cardiac glycosides. arabia to africa
family mullidae;goatfishes or red mullets
stizidae;cicada killers
genus cryptocercus;cockroaches
genus rupicapra;chamois
order proboscidea;an order of animals including elephants and mammoths
lymantriidae;tussock moths
family ruscaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
acer pseudoplatanus;eurasian maple tree with pale gray bark that peels in flakes like that of a sycamore tree. leaves with five ovate lobes yellow in autumn
division phaeophyta;coextensive with class phaeophyceae. in some classifications subsumed in the division heterokontophyta
tupelo family;a family of dicotyledonous trees of order myrtales that includes the sour gum trees
acalypha;a genus of herbs and shrubs belonging to the family euphorbiaceae
cichorium;chicory
dasypodidae;armadillos
family corvidae;crow. raven. rook. jackdaw. chough. magpie. jay
genus sorex;type genus of the family soricidae: shrews
genus ceratopogon;type genus of the ceratopogonidae
laminariales;in some classifications coextensive with family laminariaceae: marine brown algae of cold or polar seas
family ranidae;nearly cosmopolitan family: true frogs
brickellia;genus of herbs of southwestern america having usually creamy florets followed by one-seeded fruits in a prominent bristly sheath
genus sarcophaga;flesh flies
genus tunga;a genus of siphonaptera
cuterebridae;new world botflies
genus kakatoe;a genus of psittacidae
yellow eyed grass family;plants of tropical to temperate regions. usually in wet places
pilea;low-growing tropical perennials grown for their stingless foliage
gomphrena;genus of tropical herbs or subshrubs having flowers in close heads. tropical america and australia
genus heterocephalus;sand rats
cuculus;type genus of the cuculidae
genus haminoea;common genus of marine bubble shells of the pacific coast of north america
family coerebidae;the honeycreepers
genus corallorhiza;genus of leafless root-parasitic orchids having small purplish or yellowish racemose flowers with lobed lips. widely distributed in temperate regions
genus passerina;small north american bush-loving finches: new world buntings
genus corypha;large fan palms of tropical asia to australia
family heteromyidae;small new world burrowing mouselike rodents with fur-lined cheek pouches and hind limbs and tail adapted to leaping. adapted to desert conditions: pocket mice. kangaroo mice. kangaroo rats
family pittidae;pittas
solea;type genus of the soleidae
torreya;nutmeg-yews
order neuroptera;an order of insects including: lacewings. antlions. dobsonflies. alderflies. fishflies. mantispids. spongeflies
genus eupatorium;large genus of chiefly tropical herbs having heads of white or purplish flowers
conuropsis;a genus of psittacidae
genus chimaera;type genus of the chimaeridae
genus hemerocallis;east asian rhizomatous clump-forming perennial herbs having flowers on long leafless stalks. cosmopolitan in cultivation: day lilies. sometimes placed in subfamily hemerocallidaceae
genus decapterus;scads especially mackerel scad. cosmopolitan
genus irena;type genus of the irenidae: fairy bluebirds
pseudococcus;type genus of the pseudococcidae
myrrhis;european perennial herbs having pinnate leaves and umbels of white flowers
genus clitoria;genus of tropical shrubs or vines having pinnate leaves and large axillary flowers
anguillula;a genus of cephalobidae
liatris;genus of perennial north american herbs with aromatic usually cormous roots
water plantain family;perennial or annual aquatic or marsh plants
ascaridae;large roundworms parasitic in intestines of vertebrates
genus onoclea;1 species: sensitive fern. in some classifications included in polypodiaceae
order geophilomorpha;small elongate centipedes living in soil and under stones and having more than 30 pairs of legs
genus tringa;a genus of scolopacidae
genus cabomba;alternatively, a member of the family nymphaeaceae. a small genus of american aquatic plants
order coniferales;profusely branching and chiefly evergreen trees and some shrubs having narrow or needlelike leaves
genus liatris;genus of perennial north american herbs with aromatic usually cormous roots
family titanosauridae;herbivorous dinosaurs of the cretaceous
genus psaltriparus;a genus of paridae
family mimosaceae;family of spiny woody plants (usually shrubs or small trees) whose leaves mimic animals in sensitivity to touch. commonly included in the family leguminosae
family athyriaceae;alternative names for one of a number of families into which the family polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems
genus unio;type genus of the family unionidae
seiurus;ovenbirds and water thrushes
genus echeneis;type genus of the echeneididae: typical remoras
liomys;pocket mice
genus sciaenops;a genus of sciaenidae
callicebus;titis
nigroporus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family polyporaceae
scutigeridae;a family of chilopoda
oxyuranus;taipans
genus mustelus;smooth dogfishes
taxus;yews
genus hamelia;evergreen tropical american shrubs or small trees
genus sturnella;a genus of passerine birds including the meadowlarks
pleiospilos;perennial succulents of south africa
genus lagorchestes;hare wallabies
bibos;wild ox
family clusiaceae;widely distributed family of chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines that produce oils and resins and some usable timber
genus rheum;rhubarb
genus ptyas;asian rat snakes
automeris;io moth
filicinae;ferns
genus heleodytes;alternative classifications for the cactus wrens
genus gulo;a genus of mustelidae
genus ceratostomella;genus of fungi forming continuous hyaline spores
ichthyosauridae;later ichthyosaurs of the jurassic and cretaceous. widely distributed in both hemispheres
family coreidae;squash bugs and leaf-footed bugs
microtus;voles of the northern hemisphere
genus vireo;type genus of the vireonidae
family ephemeridae;mayflies
genus apios;twining perennial north american plants
superclass chelicerata;spiders. scorpions. horseshoe crabs
cabomba;alternatively, a member of the family nymphaeaceae. a small genus of american aquatic plants
hyla;type genus of the hylidae. tree toads
lycaena;type genus of the lycaenidae. small slender butterflies with upper surface of wings usually metallic blue or green or copper
eleutherodactylus;completely terrestrial robber frogs
mistletoe family;in some classification includes viscaceae: parasitic or hemiparasitic shrublets or shrubs or small trees of tropical and temperate regions. attach to hosts by haustoria
moneses;1 species: one-flowered wintergreen. sometimes included in genus pyrola
genus bothrops;fer-de-lance
tumble grass;north american grass with slender brushy panicles. often a weed on cultivated land
genus denisonia;copperheads
hemigalus;banded palm civets
seriphus;a genus of sciaenidae
genus angrecum;genus of tropical old world epiphytic orchids with showy flowers sometimes grotesque
dilleniid dicot genus;genus of more or less advanced dicotyledonous trees and shrubs and herbs
genus collinsonia;small genus of perennial erect or spreading aromatic herbs. united states
staphylaceae;a family of dicotyledonous plants of order sapindales found mostly in the north temperate zone
genus pleurotus;white-spored agarics with caps having an eccentric stem. an important mushroom of japan
argentinidae;small marine soft-finned fishes with long silvery bodies. related to salmons and trouts
genus pomacanthus;angelfishes
genus photoblepharon;a genus of fish in the family anomalopidae
harrisia;genus of slender often treelike spiny cacti with solitary showy nocturnal white or pink flowers. florida and caribbean to south america
nuytsia;one species
cyamopsis;small genus of annual usually hairy herbs of tropical africa and arabia
order ganoidei;a group of mostly extinct primitive bony fishes characterized by armor-like bony scales
order plumbaginales;coextensive with the family_plumbaginaceae. usually included in order primulales
gymnogyps;containing solely the california condor
populus;a genus of trees of the family salicaceae that is found in the northern hemisphere. poplars
pseudoscorpiones;false scorpions
genus nelumbo;sometimes placed in the family nymphaeaceae: lotuses
tupaia;type genus of the tupaia: chief genus of tree shrews
haastia;genus of new zealand mat-forming herbs or subshrubs: vegetable_sheep
family micrococcaceae;spherical or elliptical usually aerobic eubacteria that produce yellow or orange or red pigment. includes toxin-producing forms as well as harmless commensals and saprophytes
genus blandfordia;small species of tuberous-rooted australian perennial herbs
genus haastia;genus of new zealand mat-forming herbs or subshrubs: vegetable_sheep
genus blattella;small cockroaches
brya;genus of prickly shrubs and small trees of the caribbean region. source of a durable hardwood
leiophyllum;1 species: sand myrtle
bothidae;a family of fish of the order heterosomata
tinca;tench
caryophyllales;corresponds approximately to the older group centrospermae
family trombiculidae;mites
family psyllidae;jumping plant lice
genus myrciaria;a genus of tropical american trees and shrubs of the myrtle family
genus bombax;trees of chiefly south america
genus ammobium;small genus of australian herbs grown for their flowers
family miridae;leaf bugs
family artamidae;wood swallows
family aleyrodidae;whiteflies
genus jambos;used in some classifications for rose apples (eugenia jambos)
family forficulidae;typical earwigs
strekelia;a monocotyledonous genus of the amaryllis family
genus echinacea;small genus of north american coarse perennial herbs
clade;a group of biological taxa or species that share features inherited from a common ancestor
genus lycopersicon;tomatoes
class mammalia;warm-blooded vertebrates characterized by mammary glands in the female
tomistoma;a genus of malayan crocodiles
cicadidae;cicadas
genus blephilia;small genus of north american herbs: wood mints
loranthus;type genus of the loranthaceae: 1 species
geomys;type genus of the geomyidae
genus allium;large genus of perennial and biennial pungent bulbous plants: garlic. leek. onion. chive. sometimes placed in family alliacea as the type genus
anthocerotales;hornworts. liverworts having a thalloid gametophyte. in some classification systems included in the class hepaticopsida
euonymus;widely distributed chiefly evergreen shrubs or small trees or vines
hippotragus;sable antelopes
cabombaceae;in some classifications considered an independent family of water lilies. comprises the genera cabomba and brasenia
bucephala;buffleheads and goldeneyes
parkia;genus of tropical old world trees: nitta trees
genus zantedeschia;calla lily
order apodiformes;swifts. hummingbirds
family armadillidiidae;pill bugs
genus coscoroba;a genus of anatidae
genus pickeringia;1 species: chaparral pea
family umbelliferae;plants having flowers in umbels: parsley. carrot. anise. caraway. celery. dill
kingdom protoctista;in most modern classifications, replacement for the protista. includes: protozoa. euglenophyta. chlorophyta. cryptophyta. heterokontophyta. rhodophyta. unicellular protists and their descendant multicellular organisms: regarded as distinct from plants and animals
genus nuytsia;one species
genus caesalpinia;small spiny tropical trees or shrubs. includes the small genus or subgenus poinciana
suborder manteodea;mantises. in former classifications considered a suborder of orthoptera
genus triglochin;perennial or annual bog or marsh plants. includes arrow_grass
fagus;beeches
genus geothlypis;yellowthroats
family hydrophidae;sea snakes
ulmaceae;a dicot family of the order urticales including: genera ulmus. celtis. planera. trema
nipa;monotypic genus of palms of australasia
genus matteuccia;small genus sometimes included in genus onoclea. in some classifications both genera are placed in polypodiaceae
genus majorana;small genus of herbs usually included in the genus origanum
smilax;sometimes placed in smilacaceae
sittidae;nuthatches
genus anolis;new world chameleons
genus homarus;type genus of the family homaridae: common edible lobsters
mint family;the mints: aromatic herbs and shrubs having flowers resembling the lips of a mouth and four-lobed ovaries yielding four one-seeded nutlets and including thyme. sage. rosemary
jamesonia;xerophytic ferns of south america
sebastiana;mexican spurges
genus blatta;type genus of the blattidae: cockroaches infesting buildings worldwide
boletaceae;family of pore-bearing fleshy fungi having the spores easily separating from the cup and often from each other
rhapis;genus of small clump-forming fan palms of china and japan
testudines;tortoises and turtles
genus babyrousa;a genus of suidae
order dermaptera;earwigs and a few related forms
pachyrhizus;small genus of tropical vines having tuberous roots
phlebotomus;small blood-sucking sand flies that resemble moths
genus anaphalis;genus of herbs of north temperate regions having hoary leaves: pearly everlasting
clupeidae;herrings. shad. sardines. etc.
genus pernis;a common european bird of prey. dull brown with white-streaked underparts
genus helicteres;genus of shrubs and small trees of tropical america and asia having cylindrical fruits spirally twisted around one another
catoptrophorus;willet
salicaceae;two genera of trees or shrubs having hairy catkins: salix. populus
genus oncidium;large genus of showy epiphytic or lithophytic or terrestrial orchids of tropical and subtropical america
perisoreus;canada jays
genus amblyrhynchus;marine iguanas
hydnaceae;tooth_fungi
viverra;type genus of the family viverridae
xylariaceae;family of fungi characterized by dark brown to back spores
polemoniaceae;a widely distributed family of chiefly herbaceous plants of the order polemoniales. often have showy flowers
family strelitziaceae;woody plants with erect stems of tropical south america and south africa and madagascar. in some classifications included in the family musaceae
genus silvia;type genus of the sylviidae: warblers
genus mollienesia;mollies
genus lupinus;herbs or shrubs: lupin
family gavialidae;gavials
genus firmiana;small genus of asian trees or shrubs
genus ononis;genus of european subshrubs or herbs having pink or purple or yellow solitary or clustered flowers: restharrow
suborder odontoceti;toothed whales: dolphins. porpoises. sperm whales. beaked whales
eumeces;new world skinks
urticales;an order of dicotyledonous plants including moraceae and urticaceae and ulmaceae
balaenoptera;type genus of the balaenopteridae
macruridae;grenadiers
class ciliata;class of protozoa having cilia or hairlike appendages on part or all of the surface during some part of the life cycle
family xenopodidae;in some classifications the family of the genus xenopus which is otherwise included in the family pipidae
subclass anapsida;oldest known reptiles: turtles. extinct permian forms
family gruidae;cranes
genus cyrilla;1 species: trees and shrubs having flowers with acute or twisted petals and wingless fruit
family scombridae;marine food fishes: mackerels. chub mackerels. tuna
genus crax;type genus of the cracidae: curassows
genus citrus;orange. lemon. lime. etc.
genus pseudoryx;species of large cow-like mammals of vietnam discovered by scientists in 1992
bathyergus;mole rats
phytelephas;small genus of south american feather palms
family hamamelidaceae;comprises genera hamamelis. corylopsis. fothergilla. liquidambar. parrotia. other small genera
monocot genus;genus of flowering plants having a single cotyledon (embryonic leaf) in the seed
genus apteryx;type genus of the apterygidae: kiwis
order rajiformes;fish with dorsoventrally flattened bodies. includes: rays. skates. guitarfishes. sawfishes
genus kennedia;genus of australian woody vines having showy red or purplish flowers
scolopacidae;sandpiper family: sandpipers. woodcocks. snipes. tattlers. curlews. godwits. dowitchers
genus centaurea;knapweed. star thistle
myriophyllum;chiefly monoecious and usually aquatic herbs (as the milfoils)
platanthera;herbaceous terrestrial orchids of temperate northern and southern hemispheres
procyon;type genus of the family procyonidae: raccoons
genus flammulina;a genus of agarics
noctua;type genus of the noctuidae: moths whose larvae are cutworms
poronotus;a genus of stromateidae
genus ictalurus;channel catfishes
order chenopodiales;corresponds approximately to the older group centrospermae
menopon;chicken lice
adenota;african antelopes: puku
genus xenorhyncus;east indian and australian storks
family ceratopogonidae;biting midges. sand flies
form genus;an artificial taxonomic category established on the basis of morphological resemblance for organisms of obscure true relationships esp. fossil forms
connaraceae;mostly tropical climbing shrubs or small trees. closely related to leguminosae
family burhinidae;large wading birds resembling the plovers: stone curlews
loxomataceae;very small family of new zealand ferns
xylocopa;carpenter bees
dermoptera;flying lemurs
luvarus;type genus of the luvaridae
genus desmidium;a genus of protoctista
proteles;aardwolf
genus psittacosaurus;most primitive genus of horned dinosaurs. early cretaceous
phoenicopteridae;flamingos
astronium;a genus of dicotyledonous plants of the family anacardiaceae
drimys;shrubs and trees of southern hemisphere having aromatic foliage
muscoidea;two-winged flies esp. the families: muscidae. gasterophilidae. calliphoridae. tachinidae
phylum nemertea;proboscis worms
agave family;chiefly tropical and xerophytic plants: includes dracenaceae (dracaenaceae). comprises plants that in some classifications are divided between the amaryllidaceae and the liliaceae
pueraria;genus of woody asiatic vines: kudzu
piscidia;genus of shrubs or small trees having indehiscent pods with black seeds. roots and bark yield fish poisons
genus megaptera;humpback whales
parietaria;small genus of stingless herbs
genus thalassoma;a genus of labridae
genus saccharomyces;single-celled yeasts that reproduce asexually by budding. used to ferment carbohydrates
streptococcus anhemolyticus;a species of bacteria
genus dentaria;usually included in genus cardamine. in some classifications considered a separate genus
genus hylobates;gibbons
genus pipilo;towhees
juglandales;coextensive with the family juglandaceae
poeciliidae;topminnows
suborder thyreophora;armored dinosaurs: stegosaurs and ankylosaurs
genus coffea;coffee trees
division magnoliophyta;comprising flowering plants that produce seeds enclosed in an ovary. in some systems considered a class (angiospermae) and in others a division (magnoliophyta or anthophyta)
hadrosauridae;duck-billed dinosaurs. upper cretaceous
maeandra;brain corals
genus habenaria;chiefly terrestrial orchids with tubers or fleshy roots often having long slender spurs and petals and lip lobes. includes species formerly placed in genus gymnadeniopsis
genus alliaria;a genus of herbs of the family cruciferae. have broad leaves and whit flowers and long siliques
genus eschscholtzia;showy herbs of western north america
genus browallia;small genus of tropical south american annuals
perdicinae;old world partridges
genus oryzomys;rice rats
ilex;a large genus of dicotyledonous trees and shrubs of the family aquifoliaceae that have small flowers and berries (including hollies)
thelypteridaceae;genera thelypteris. phegopteris. others
class trematoda;flukes
capitonidae;barbets
lunda;puffins
sugar sorghum;any of several sorghums cultivated as a source of syrup
crataegus;thorny shrubs and small trees: hawthorn. thorn. thorn_apple
chelonidae;green turtles. hawksbills
genus hedera;old world woody vines
genus carduus;genus of annual or perennial old world prickly thistles
family scincidae;skinks
genus trichophaga;carpet moths
tipulidae;crane flies
onoclea;1 species: sensitive fern. in some classifications included in polypodiaceae
genus aglaonema;climbing herbs of southeastern asia having thick fleshy oblong leaves and naked unisexual flowers: chinese evergreen
polypedates;type genus of the polypedatidae
genus actiniopteris;terrestrial ferns of tropical asia and africa
genus aquilegia;columbine
genus leonurus;genus of stout old world herbs having cut-lobed leaves and flowers in whorls
genus bryonia;climbing perennial herbs: bryony
family argonautidae;represented solely by the genus argonauta
genus globicephala;pilot whales
genus nageia;small genus of asian evergreen trees having columnar crowns and distinguished by leaves lacking a midrib. eastern asia including india and philippines and new guinea
filariidae;threadlike roundworms
genus latimeria;type genus of the latimeridae: coelacanth
family galbulidae;jacamars
genus hibiscus;large genus of tropical and subtropical herbs and shrubs and trees often grown as ornamentals for their profusion of large flowers in a variety of colors
genus jabiru;jabirus
suborder sauropodomorpha;gigantic herbivorous dinosaurs having huge bodies with long necks and small heads: prosauropoda and sauropoda (apatosaurus. diplodocus. titanosaurs)
family erysiphaceae;family of fungi parasitic mostly on leaves. includes powdery mildews
coleonyx;banded geckos
genus mahonia;evergreen shrubs and small trees of north and central america and asia
family winteraceae;small family of chiefly tropical shrubs and trees of genera drimys and pseudowintera. sometimes included in magnoliaceae
genus callorhinus;fur seals
prionotus;a genus of triglidae
genus cacalia;genus of tall smooth herbs of forested mountains of europe and asia minor. in some classifications includes many plants usually placed in genus emilia
uma;fringe-toed lizard
genus campanula;large genus of herbs grown for their blossoms: bellflowers
family cannabidaceae;2 genera of erect or twining wind-pollinated herbs: genera cannabis and humulus. term not used in all classifications. in some the genus cannabis is placed in the family moraceae and the genus humulus in the family urticaceae
vombatidae;wombats
genus pollachius;pollack
genus aetobatus;a genus of myliobatidae
genus jacksonia;genus of yellow-flowered australian unarmed or spiny shrubs without true leaves but having leaflike stems or branches
pucciniaceae;large important family of rust fungi
genus enhydra;sea otters
genus groenlandia;a monocotyledonous genus of the family potamogetonaceae
genus merluccius;hakes
indicatoridae;honey guides
family dactylopiidae;cochineal insects
psilotum;type genus of the psilotaceae
genus catharanthus;small genus of erect annual or perennial herbs native to madagascar. widely naturalized in the tropics. formerly included in genus vinca
family daubentoniidae;comprising solely the aye-aye
photoblepharon;a genus of fish in the family anomalopidae
genus astrantia;masterworts
genus gallirallus;rails of new zealand
pogonophora;beard worms
genus cacatua;a genus of psittacidae
urtica;a nettle yielding fiber resembling flax
odobenidae;walruses and extinct forms
sphacele;a dicotyledonous genus of the family labiatae
genus epinephelus;genus of groupers or sea bass
diplotaxis;wall rocket
genus barbarea;biennial or perennial herbs of north temperate regions: winter cress
marrubium;old world aromatic herbs: horehound
carapidae;pearlfishes: related to the brotulidae
madreporaria;stony corals
genus dermacentor;vectors of important diseases of man and animals
molucella;small genus of aromatic herbs of mediterranean regions. widely cultivated
lotus;annual or perennial herbs or subshrubs
bignonia;1 species: cross vine
phytolaccaceae;chiefly tropical herbaceous plants (including shrubs and trees) with racemose flowers: genera phytolacca. agdestis. ercilla. rivina. trichostigma
amaranthus;large widely distributed genus of chiefly coarse annual herbs
genus brassica;mustards: cabbages. cauliflowers. turnips. etc.
slime mushroom;a mushroom of the genus amanita
family zamiaceae;a family of cycads often included in the family cycadaceae: zamias
genus dactylis;a monocotyledonous grass of the family gramineae (has only one species)
genus fratercula;puffins
family ipidae;large family of bark-boring or wood-boring short-beaked beetles. very destructive to forest and fruit trees
family raphidiidae;familyof arthropods of the suborder megaloptera, including snakeflies
coregonus;type genus of the coregonidae: whitefishes
family pieridae;cabbage butterflies. sulphur butterflies
balaena;type genus of the balaenidae: greenland whales
streptopelia turtur;the common european wild dove noted for its plaintive cooing
elasmobranchii;sharks. rays. dogfishes. skates
genus taenia;type genus of the family taeniidae: tapeworms
empetraceae;heathlike shrubs
fagopyrum;buckwheat. in some classifications included in the genus polygonum
genus calliandra;genus of pinnate-leaved shrubs and small trees of tropical and subtropical north and south america and india and west africa
recurvirostra;type genus of the recurvirostridae: avocets
gerreidae;mojarras
gasteromycetes;fungi in which the hymenium is enclosed until after spores have matured: puffballs. earth stars. stinkhorn fungi
order spirochaetales;higher bacteria. slender spiral rodlike forms
cardamine;bittercress, bitter_cress
family lamiaceae;the mints: aromatic herbs and shrubs having flowers resembling the lips of a mouth and four-lobed ovaries yielding four one-seeded nutlets and including thyme. sage. rosemary
genus hypoderma;in some classifications considered the type genus of the family hypodermatidae: warble flies
halesia;deciduous small trees or shrubs of china and eastern north america
genus ceratitis;mediterranean fruit flies
euglenaceae;considered green algae
genus claytonia;genus of mainly north american succulent herbs with white or pink flowers usually in terminal racemes
thomomys bottae;of valleys and mountain meadows of western united states
genus hermannia;genus of african herbs and subshrubs having honey-scented bell-shaped flowers
epacridaceae;australasian shrubs or small trees
gerres;type genus of the gerreidae
genus lachnolaimus;a genus of labridae
ericaceae;heathers
genus amsonia;genus of herbs and subshrubs with milky juice and showy bluish flowers. europe to asia minor to japan and north america
ginkgoaceae;constituting the order ginkgoales. includes the genus ginkgo and extinct forms
aphidoidea;plant lice
prunella;type genus of the prunellidae
anguilla;type genus of the anguillidae: eels
alstonia;genus of evergreen trees or shrubs with white funnel-shaped flowers and milky sap. tropical africa to southeastern asia and polynesia
genus numida;guinea fowl
urosaurus;a reptile genus of iguanidae
zannichellia;horned pondweed: completely submerged herbs. in some classifications included in potamogetonaceae
redwood family;coniferous trees. traditionally considered an independent family though recently included in cupressaceae in some classification systems
genus cynocephalus;type genus of the family cynocephalidae
genus telopea;australian evergreen shrubs: waratahs
genus aquila;a genus of accipitridae
genus lamna;a genus of lamnidae
genus aulacorhyncus;a genus of ramphastidae
superfamily muscoidea;two-winged flies esp. the families: muscidae. gasterophilidae. calliphoridae. tachinidae
dracenaceae;one of two subfamilies to which some classification systems assign some members of the agavaceae
genus lanthanotus;1 species
common broom;deciduous erect spreading broom native to western europe. widely cultivated for its rich yellow flowers
genus melampodium;herbs and subshrubs of warm north america
aulacorhyncus;a genus of ramphastidae
subclass liliidae;one of four subclasses or superorders of monocotyledones. comprises 17 families including: liliaceae. alliaceae. amaryllidaceae. iridaceae. orchidaceae. trilliaceae
genus claviceps;fungi parasitic upon the ovaries of various grasses
genus philohela;american woodcocks
genus acropora;coelanterate genus of order madreporaria, including staghorn corals
xylomelum;small species of australian trees or shrubs. grown for their fruit and flowers
family soricidae;shrews
genus dendraspis;mambas
actinidia;small asiatic woody vine bearing many-seeded fruit
laurel family;a family of lauraceae
family boidae;boas and pythons
genus zingiber;tropical asiatic and polynesian perennial plants: ginger
manteodea;mantises. in former classifications considered a suborder of orthoptera
genus selenarctos;asiatic black bears. in some classifications not a separate genus from ursus
genus russula;large genus of stout-stemmed white-spored fungi with neither annulus nor volva. brittle caps of red or purple or yellow or green or blue. differs from genus lactarius in lacking milky juice
genus haematoxylon;small genus of tropical american spiny bushy shrubs or trees
acaridae;mites
enterolobium;small genus of tropical american timber trees closely allied to genus albiza
tellima;genus of hardy perennials with palmately lobed leaves and long racemes of small nodding five-petaled flowers. western north america
family meloidae;blister beetles
family muridae;originally old world rats now distributed worldwide. distinguished from the cricetidae by typically lacking cheek pouches
genus onchorynchus;sockeye salmon. chinook salmon. coho salmon
genus muscardinus;a genus of gliridae
genus masticophis;whipsnakes
genus stentor;trumpet-shaped protozoa with a ciliated spiral feeding funnel
genus zapus;type genus of the zapodidae
family chlorophthalmidae;small family of soft-finned bottom-livers with large eyes. relatives of lizardfishes
spirulidae;coextensive with the genus spirula. included in the order belemnoidea in some older classifications
family coryphaenidae;large active pelagic percoid fish
order edentata;order of mammals having few or no teeth including: new world anteaters. sloths. armadillos
family balistidae;triggerfishes
suborder serpentes;snakes
family gonorhynchidae;coextensive with the genus gonorhynchus
juncus;type genus of the juncaceae. perennial tufted glabrous marsh plants of temperate regions: rushes
genus electrophorus;type genus of the family_electrophoridae. electric eels
genus cajanus;erect densely branched shrubby perennials of old world tropics. naturalized in other warm regions
genus halimodendron;1 species: salt tree
tichodroma;wall creepers. in some classifications placed in family sittidae
order anacanthini;at least partially equivalent to the order gadiformes in some classifications
roridulaceae;in some classifications included in the family droseraceae
sphingidae;hawkmoths
genus serratula;genus of old world perennial herbs with spirally arranged toothed leaves
genus dendrocalamus;giant clumb-forming bamboos
carcharhinidae;largest family of living sharks. found worldwide esp. in tropical waters. dorsal fin lacks spines: requiem sharks including tiger sharks and soupfin sharks
holbrookia;earless lizards
salpichroa;herbs of temperate north and south america: cock's eggs
anopheles;malaria mosquitoes. distinguished by the adult's head-downward stance and absence of breathing tubes in the larvae
seismosaurus;genus of large herbivorous dinosaurs of cretaceous found in western north america
nepeta;catmint
eubryales;mosses with perennial erect gametophores and stems with rows of leaves and drooping capsules
oreamnos;mountain goats
ceratostomella;genus of fungi forming continuous hyaline spores
saurischia;extinct terrestrial reptiles: theropods (carnivorous). sauropods (herbivorous)
charophyceae;in some classifications: contains only the order charales
momotidae;a family of birds of the order coraciiformes
agkistrodon;copperheads
urticaceae;a family of plants of order urticales including many nettles with stinging hairs
class acrasiomycetes;cellular slime molds. in some classifications placed in kingdom protoctista
amentiferae;used in some classification systems for plants that bear catkins
genus macrotus;leafnose bats
zeus;type genus of the family zeidae
genus borassus;palmyra
cobitidae;loaches
gymnocarpium;oak ferns: in some classification systems included in genus thelypteris
genus dryopithecus;genus of old world hominoids. miocene and pliocene
genus caretta;loggerhead turtles
centunculus;a dicotyledonous genus of the family primulaceae
genus trimorphodon;lyre snakes
genus monarda;wild bergamot, horsemint, beebalm
larus;type genus of the laridae
family melampsoraceae;rust fungi
comandra;small genus of chiefly north american parasitic plants
family cleridae;beetles that prey on other insects
lepidoptera;moths and butterflies
cephalaspida;extinct group of armored fishlike vertebrates. taxonomy is not clear
genus carcharias;type and sole genus of carchariidae: sand sharks
tremella;fungi with yellowish gelatinous sporophores having convolutions resembling those of the brain
plantae;taxonomic kingdom comprising all living or extinct plants
genus grias;anchovy pear tree
heliozoa;mostly freshwater protozoa
genus brama;type genus of the bramidae
anser;typical geese
genus cebuella;pygmy marmosets
tettigoniidae;long-horned grasshoppers. katydids
aegypius;a genus of accipitridae
genus dipsosaurus;desert iguanas
uvularia;genus of perennial rhizomatous herb of southern and southeastern united states
genus sarcodes;snow_plant. in some classifications placed in family pyrolaceae
dolichos;genus of chiefly tropical vines often placed in genera dipogon or lablab or macrotyloma
family mycetophylidae;fungus gnats
order pedipalpi;whip scorpions
callophis;asian coral snakes
class charophyceae;in some classifications: contains only the order charales
solenostemon;genus of shrubby often succulent herbs of tropical africa and asia. includes some plants often placed in genus coleus
order sphenisciformes;penguins
parkeriaceae;coextensive with the genus ceratopteris. sometimes included in family polypodiaceae
family gigartinaceae;a family of protoctista
family physidae;freshwater snails
atticus;atlas moth
pericallis;cineraria
group centrospermae;used in former classification systems. approximately synonymous with order caryophyllales
genus pennatula;type genus of the family pennatulidae: sea pens
samia;silkworm moths
cucumis;cucumbers. muskmelons
subdivision basidiomycotina;comprises fungi bearing the spores on a basidium: gasteromycetes (puffballs). tiliomycetes (comprising the orders ustilaginales (smuts) and uredinales (rusts)). hymenomycetes (mushrums. toadstools. agarics. bracket fungi). in some classification systems considered a division of kingdom fungi
choriotis;australian bustard
family iguanidae;new world lizards
penicillium;genus of fungi commonly growing as green or blue molds on decaying food. used in making cheese and as a source of penicillin
division schizophyta;former term for the cyanophyta
vervain family;family of new world tropical and subtropical herbs and shrubs and trees
averrhoa;trees native to east indies having pinnate leaves: carambolas
order perissodactyla;nonruminant ungulates: horses. tapirs. rhinoceros. extinct forms
ring stalked fungus;genus of brown-spored gill fungi closely related to agaricus. here placed in its own family strophariaceae
genus nucifraga;nutcrackers
cerapteryx;antler moths
genus athrotaxis;a genus of athrotaxes
leitneria;1 species: corkwood
genus xeranthemum;genus of annual densely hairy herbs of mediterranean to southwestern asia
basidiomycotina;comprises fungi bearing the spores on a basidium: gasteromycetes (puffballs). tiliomycetes (comprising the orders ustilaginales (smuts) and uredinales (rusts)). hymenomycetes (mushrums. toadstools. agarics. bracket fungi). in some classification systems considered a division of kingdom fungi
genus rubus;large genus of brambles bearing berries
genus macrocephalon;maleos
genus cordia;tropical deciduous or evergreen trees or shrubs of the family boraginaceae
division bryophyta;a division of nonflowering plants characterized by rhizoids rather than true roots and having little or no organized vascular tissue and showing alternation of generations between gamete-bearing forms and spore-bearing forms. comprises true mosses (bryopsida) and liverworts (hepaticopsida) and hornworts (anthoceropsida)
clitocybe;a genus of agarics with white to pale yellow spore deposits and fleshy stalks centrally attached to the cap and closely attached gills
genus sagittaria;genus of aquatic herbs of temperate and tropical regions having sagittate or hastate leaves and white scapose flowers
class scaphopoda;small class of bilaterally symmetrical marine forms comprising the tooth shells
order myxobacteriales;an order of higher bacteria
diapensiaceae;north temperate low evergreen plants. in some classifications placed in its own order diapensiales
oedogonium;type genus of oedogoniaceae. freshwater green algae having long unbranched filaments. usually free-floating when mature
saimiri;squirrel monkeys
anethum;dill
family scorpaenidae;scorpionfishes. rockfishes. lionfishes
bromus;a genus of grasses of the family gramineae
genus perodicticus;a genus of lorisidae
genus frankliniella;tobacco thrips
subclass caryophyllidae;a group of families of mostly flowers having basal or free-central placentation and trinucleate pollen (binucleate pollen is commoner in flowering plants). contains 14 families including: caryophyllaceae (carnations and pinks). aizoaceae. amaranthaceae. batidaceae. chenopodiaceae. cactaceae (order opuntiales). nyctaginaceae. phytolaccaceae. corresponds approximately to order caryophyllales. sometimes classified as a superorder
family leptodactylidae;new world frogs. in some classifications essentially coextensive with the family bufonidae
family prunellidae;hedge sparrow
illecebrum;1 species: coral necklace
family aplodontiidae;mountain beavers
zoisia;lawn grasses native to southeastern asia and new zealand. grown especially in warm regions
genus paramecium;freshwater ciliate with an oval body and long deep oral groove
genus harpia;a genus of accipitridae
family blastodiaceae;a family of saprobic fungi of order blastocladiales
camponotus;carpenter ants
order siluriformes;an order of fish belonging to the superorder malacopterygii including catfishes
embiotocidae;viviparous percoid fishes comprising the surf fishes
saxicola;old world chats
genus tsuga;hemlock. hemlock fir. hemlock spruce
family termitidae;termites
myristica;type genus of myristicaceae. tropical asian evergreen trees with small white or yellow flowers followed by fleshy fruits
genus mastotermes;primitive genus of termites. mostly extinct. sometimes considered the most primitive isoptera
genus polistes;a genus of vespidae
genus acroclinium;genus of herbs and shrubs of australia and south africa: everlasting_flower. most species usually placed in genus helipterum
genus drymoglossum;epiphytic ferns of madagascar to tropical asia and new guinea
genus orchestia;type genus of the family orchestiidae
genus palaquium;large genus of malaysian trees with milky juice and leathery leaves
chrysosplenium;genus of widely distributed semiaquatic herbs with minute greenish-yellow apetalous flowers
family erinaceidae;true hedgehogs
sanwa millet;coarse annual grass cultivated in japan and southeastern asia for its edible seeds and for forage. important wildlife food in united states
forficula;type genus of forficulidae
cladonia;type genus of cladoniaceae. lichens characterized by a crustose thallus and capitate fruiting bodies borne on simple or branched podetia
class oomycetes;nonphotosynthetic fungi that resemble algae and that reproduce by forming oospores. sometimes classified as protoctists
family mustelidae;weasels. polecats. ferrets. minks. fishers. otters. badgers. skunks. wolverines. martens
genus haplopappus;genus of north and south american perennial herbs or shrubs with yellow flowers. in some classifications include species placed in other genera especially hazardia
genus erigeron;cosmopolitan genus of usually perennial herbs with flowers that resemble asters. leaves occasionally (especially formerly) used medicinally
pogostemon;genus of asiatic shrubs or trees whose leaves yield a fragrant oil
nematoda;unsegmented worms: roundworms. threadworms. eelworms
genus durio;a genus of tall asian trees of the family bombacaceae
eleusine;annual and perennial grasses of savannas and upland grasslands
family cracticidae;australian birds formerly included in the family laniidae
family atrichornithidae;scrubbirds
genus colobus;a genus of cercopithecidae
balsam family;distinguished from the family geraniaceae by the irregular flowers
bombina;fire-bellied toads
coumarouna;tropical american trees: tonka beans
cyatheaceae;tropical tree ferns
genus sargassum;a genus of protoctista
genus echium;a genus of bristly herbs and shrubs of the family boraginaceae
genus campylorhynchus;alternative classifications for the cactus wrens
bolbitis;terrestrial or less than normally scandent ferns of tropical regions of northern hemisphere
cephalotaceae;a family of plants of order rosales. coextensive with the genus cephalotus
genus mergus;mergansers
bothrops;fer-de-lance
genus chordeiles;a genus of caprimulgidae
ophisaurus;glass lizards
pyrophorus;tropical click beetles
gooseberry family;in some classifications considered a part of the family saxifragaceae: plants whose fruit is a berry
genus marasmius;chiefly small white-spored mushrooms
myrtillocactus;small genus of arborescent cacti of mexico and central america
phallus;genus of fungi having the cap or pileus hanging free around the stem
genus lithospermum;annual or perennial herbaceous or shrubby plants. cosmopolitan except australia
order zygnemales;pond scums. desmids
myctophidae;deep-sea fishes comprising the lantern fishes
porphyrula;american purple gallinules
suborder myxiniformes;hagfishes as distinguished from lampreys
paleacrita;geometrid moths
chilomeniscus;sand snakes
nomia;a genus of bee. some are important pollinators of legumes
tremellales;fungi varying from gelatinous to waxy or even horny in texture. most are saprophytic
genus pipistrellus;nearly cosmopolitan genus of very small bats
genus hypentelium;a genus of fish in the family catostomidae
ceratonia;carobs
superphylum;(biology) a taxonomic group ranking between a phylum and below a class or subclass
phoradendron;any of various american parasitic plants similar to old world mistletoe: false mistletoe
genus helleborus;a genus of helleborus
genus roccus;a genus of serranidae
genus malvastrum;genus of mallows characterized by red and yellow flowers often placed in other genera
sphenisciformes;penguins
genus trichoceros;small genus of small epiphytic or terrestrial orchids of tropical south america
order conodontophorida;extinct order of primitive vertebrates. the precise taxonomy is not clear. in some classifications considered a separate phylum
family macrouridae;grenadiers
aplysiidae;sea hares
genus plumeria;deciduous shrubs and trees of tropical america having branches like candelabra and fragrant white or pink flowers
order anseriformes;ducks. geese. swans. screamers
family ogcocephalidae;batfishes: sluggish bottom-dwelling spiny fishes
liliopsid family;family of flowering plants having a single cotyledon (embryonic leaf) in the seed
family todidae;a family of birds of the order coraciiformes
phlebodium;chiefly epiphytic tropical ferns with free veins bearing sori
order orchidales;order of plants with irregular flowers having minute seeds: orchidaceae. burmanniaceae
family suidae;pigs. hogs. boars
tadorna;sheldrakes
genus ichthyosaurus;type genus of the ichthyosauridae
genus phillyrea;small genus of evergreen shrubs of the mediterranean region
genus calocarpum;a genus of tropical american trees of the family sapotaceae
myrmecophagidae;new world anteaters
genus chionanthus;deciduous trees or shrubs: fringe tree
bowiea;small genus of tropical african perennial bulbous herbs with deciduous twining stems. sometimes placed in family hyacinthaceae
malcolmia;genus of plants usually found in coastal habitats. mediterranean to afghanistan
genus engelmannia;1 species: north american sunflowerlike herbs
genus glyceria;manna grass
genus melanotis;a genus of mimidae
diptera;true flies. mosquitoes. gnats. crane flies
genus necturus;a genus of proteidae
family myristicaceae;family of aromatic tropical trees with arillate seeds
genus vaccaria;cow-cockles
suborder pachycephalosaurus;bone-headed dinosaurs. late cretaceous
spodoptera;moths whose larvae are armyworms
planococcus;a genus of pseudococcidae
genus bairdiella;drumfish
carnation family;large family of herbs or subshrubs (usually with stems swollen at the nodes)
verbenaceae;family of new world tropical and subtropical herbs and shrubs and trees
family asphodelaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae
suborder hyperoartia;lampreys as distinguished from hagfishes
moss genus;a genus of mosses
calophyllum;genus of tropical evergreen trees
genus francoa;perennial evergreen herbs with white or pink flowers. chile
cypraeidae;family of marine gastropods comprising the cowries
family menyanthaceae;a dicotyledonous family of marsh plants of order gentianales
threskiornithidae;ibises
mitella;genus of low slender herbs of north america and northeastern asia having flowers with trifid or pinnatifid petals
loxoma;1 species of terrestrial ferns of new zealand
genus falco;a genus of falconidae
genus lithocarpus;tanbark oaks
crotalus;large rattlesnakes. seldom bite unless startled or pursuing prey
genus conocarpus;monotypic genus of tropical american trees: button tree
genus bassariscus;cacomistles
pyxidanthera;1 species: pyxie. the eastern united states
order hypermastigina;cellulose-producing flagellates
galeorhinus;a genus of carcharhinidae
anarhichas;type genus of the anarhichadidae
genus acorus;sweet flags. sometimes placed in subfamily acoraceae
family kyphosidae;sea chubs
stercorariidae;jaegers and skuas:
genus phalaenopsis;genus of ornamental epiphytic orchids of asia and australia
genus cotinus;smoke trees
vitidaceae;a family of vines belonging to order rhamnales
genus diadophis;a genus of reptiles of the family colubridae including ringneck snakes
family tinamidae;comprising the tinamous
mimosaceae;family of spiny woody plants (usually shrubs or small trees) whose leaves mimic animals in sensitivity to touch. commonly included in the family leguminosae
erythroxylaceae;a family of plants of order geraniales. have drupaceous fruit
subfamily emberizinae;buntings and some new world sparrows
genus dumetella;catbirds
kolkwitzia;chinese genus of 1 species: beauty bush
saxegothea;1 species: prince albert's yew
genus tibicen;harvest flies
sweet lemon;lemon tree having fruit with a somewhat insipid sweetish pulp
petromyzontidae;lampreys
family chinchillidae;small bushy-tailed south american burrowing rodents
phalacrocoracidae;cormorants
genus oxyura;ruddy duck
triglidae;in some classifications restricted to the gurnards and subdivided into the subfamilies triglinae (true sea robins) and peristediinae (armored sea robins)
genus notomys;jerboa rats
genus hipposideros;horseshoe bats
soricidae;shrews
rhynchoelaps;australian coral snakes
genus megachile;type genus of the megachilidae: leaf-cutting bees
family babesiidae;piroplasms and cattle pathogens
spike moss;any of numerous fern allies of the genus selaginella
genus gonorhynchus;slender cylindrical marine fishes lacking air bladders and teeth
cetacea;an order of eutheria
bubo;a genus of strigidae
mulberry family;trees or shrubs having a milky juice. in some classifications includes genus cannabis
genus cotoneaster;genus of deciduous or evergreen old world shrubs widely cultivated
family batidaceae;family coextensive with genus batis: saltworts
genus digitalis;genus of eurasian herbs having alternate leaves and racemes of showy bell-shaped flowers
haemosporidia;an order in the subclass telosporidia
photinia;genus of deciduous and evergreen east asian trees and shrubs widely cultivated as ornamentals for their white flowers and red fruits. in some classifications includes genus heteromeles
scrophularia;type genus of scrophulariaceae. named for the plants' supposed ability to cure scrofula: figworts
genus suricata;meerkats
genus cairina;a genus of anatidae
genus aegilops;goat grass
genus convallaria;sometimes placed in family convallariaceae: lily_of_the_valley
maclura;yellowwood trees or shrubs
helichrysum;large genus of mostly african and australian herbs and shrubs: everlasting flowers. in some classifications includes genus ozothamnus
genus pythium;destructive root-parasitic fungi
genus amphioxus;type genus of the amphioxidae
aureolaria;small genus of north american herbs often root-parasitic and bearing golden-yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus gerardia
zygomycetes;class of fungi coextensive with subdivision zygomycota
adlumia;1 species: climbing fumitory
chamaedaphne;1 species: leatherleaf
pectinidae;scallops
genus chrysemys;painted turtles
abrocoma;abrocomes
notonecta;type genus of the notonectidae: backswimmers
mastigoproctus;giant whip scorpions
pezophaps;constituted by the extinct solitaire
petauristidae;old world flying squirrels
family septobasidiaceae;a family of fungi belonging to the subdivision basidiomycota
catostomidae;suckers. closely related to the family cyprinidae
crangonidae;shrimps
dicranaceae;mosses having costate leaves and long-stalked capsules with cleft peristome
genus lansium;a dicotyledonous genus of the family meliaceae
coregonidae;soft-finned fishes comprising the freshwater whitefishes. formerly included in the family salmonidae
water shield family;in some classifications considered an independent family of water lilies. comprises the genera cabomba and brasenia
order trichoptera;an order of insects consisting of caddis flies
fusanus;quandong trees
genus pylodictus;flathead catfishes
roccus;a genus of serranidae
genus borrelia;small flexible parasitic spirochetes having three to five wavy spirals
family diodontidae;spiny puffers
dendroaspis;mambas
genus andromeda;low-growing shrubs of northern regions of northern hemisphere
sarcophaga;flesh flies
family delphinidae;dolphins
camptosorus;classification used in some especially former systems for plants usually placed in genus asplenium
genus coniogramme;terrestrial ferns of pacific islands and asia. sometimes placed in family polypodaceae or adiantaceae
genus corylus;deciduous monoecious nut-bearing shrubs of small trees: hazel. sometimes placed in the subfamily or family corylaceae
family streptomycetacaea;higher bacteria typically aerobic soil saprophytes
cercospora;form genus of imperfect fungi that are leaf parasites with long slender spores
family elateridae;click beetles and certain fireflies
moniliales;order of imperfect fungi lacking conidiophores of having conidiophores that are superficial and not enclosed in a pycnidium
marchantiaceae;liverworts with prostrate and usually dichotomously branched thalli
genus leptoglossus;leaf-footed bugs
california box elder;maple of the united states pacific coast. fruits are white when mature
family toxotidae;archerfishes
genus sinapis;small genus of old world herbs usually included in genus brassica
stercorarius;type genus of the stercorariidae: jaegers
sorghum vulgare caudatum;a sudanese sorghum having exceptionally large soft white grains
genus arctictis;binturongs
gastrocybe;a genus of fungi of the family secotiaceae
basidiomycota;comprises fungi bearing the spores on a basidium: gasteromycetes (puffballs). tiliomycetes (comprising the orders ustilaginales (smuts) and uredinales (rusts)). hymenomycetes (mushrums. toadstools. agarics. bracket fungi). in some classification systems considered a division of kingdom fungi
alcyonacea;comprising the soft corals
genus orcinus;killer whales
genus grevillea;large genus of australian shrubs and trees having usually showy orange or red flowers
genus silybum;small genus of east african herbs
linaceae;a widely distributed family of plants
genus ostryopsis;deciduous monoecious shrubs of china and mongolia resembling trees of the genus ostrya. sometimes placed in subfamily or family carpinaceae
prosimii;not used in all classifications. in some classifications considered coextensive with the lemuroidea. in others includes both lemuroidea and tarsioidea
brunfelsia;genus of tropical american shrubs grown for their flowers followed by fleshy berrylike fruits
genus spirogyra;a genus of protoctista
menotyphla;elephant shrews. tree shrews
genus mitchella;creeping evergreen herbs of north america
nymphalidae;large beautifully colored butterflies
echinoderm family;a family of echinoderms
order thymelaeales;myrtaceae. combretaceae. elaeagnaceae. haloragidaceae. melastomaceae. lecythidaceae. lythraceae. rhizophoraceae. onagraceae. lecythidaceae. punicaceae
patella;type genus of the family patellidae: common european limpets
genus clangula;a genus of ducks
class ascomycetes;large class of higher fungi coextensive with division ascomycota: sac fungi
genus bitis;a genus of viperidae
tea family;a family of trees and shrubs of the order parietales
goodyera;genus of small orchids of the northern hemisphere with creeping rhizomes and stalked ovate leaves and small flowers
gorgonocephalus;basket stars
order uredinales;rust fungi: parasitic fungi causing rust in plants. sometimes placed in
genus colchicum;chiefly fall-blooming perennial cormous herbs. sometimes placed in family colchicaceae
marginocephalian;includes bone-headed (pachycephalosaurs) and horned (ceratopsian) dinosaurs
genus actinia;a genus of sea anemone common in rock pools
genus peireskia;genus of tropical american shrubby trees and woody climbers having slender branches with broad flat leaves and large panicles of flowers
genus nauclea;small genus of evergreen tropical shrubs or trees with smooth leathery leaves
pimenta;allspice tree
malvaceae;herbs and shrubs and some trees: mallows. cotton. okra
exacum;genus of tropical asiatic and african plants: especially persian violets
mergus;mergansers
genus addax;genus of antelopes of north african deserts
genus pseudobombax;tropical american deciduous shrubs or small trees
gobiesocidae;clingfishes
genus lagenophera;small genus of herbs of australia and south america having small solitary white or purple flowers similar to true daisies of genus bellis
oryzomys;rice rats
genus scomberomorus;spanish mackerels
genus actinomeris;used in some classification systems for plants now included in genus verbesina
castanea;chestnuts. chinkapins
melastomataceae;a family of trees and bushes and herbs of order myrtales. many are cultivated as ornamentals
family buxaceae;widely distributed evergreen shrubs and trees
pomoxis;crappies
genus hamamelis;deciduous shrubs or small trees: witch hazel
ipidae;large family of bark-boring or wood-boring short-beaked beetles. very destructive to forest and fruit trees
lycopodineae;alternative designation for the class lycopsida
epipactis;genus of hardy orchids with leafy-bracted racemes of greenish or purplish irregular flowers
genus leucocytozoon;a genus of protoctista
coprinaceae;used in some classifications for the genus coprinus
family cryptogrammataceae;one of a number of families into which the family polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems
kenyapithecus;extinct primate having powerful chewing muscles along with large molars and small incisors. fossils found in kenya
empetrum;crowberries
melolonthidae;considered a separate family in some classification systems
tardigrada;in some classifications considered a separate phylum: microscopic arachnid-like invertebrates living in water or damp moss having 4 pairs of legs and instead of a mouth a pair of stylets or needle-like piercing organs connected with the pharynx
bacteria genus;a genus of bacteria
genus harrisia;genus of slender often treelike spiny cacti with solitary showy nocturnal white or pink flowers. florida and caribbean to south america
satureja;savory
myrmeleontidae;antlions
genus richmondena;cardinals
genus seriphus;a genus of sciaenidae
genus picumnus;a genus of picidae
cordaitaceae;chiefly paleozoic plants. cordaites is the chief and typical genus
family usneaceae;fruticose lichens having prostrate or erect or pendullus thalli: genera usnea. evernia. ramalina. alectoria
genus limax;a genus of limacidae
genus marrubium;old world aromatic herbs: horehound
genus scindapsus;evergreen climbers with adhesive adventitious roots. southeastern asia and brazil
genus chlamyphorus;pichiciago
genus phyllodoce;small genus of evergreen arctic and alpine shrubs
aldrovanda;one species: waterwheel plant
genus pyracantha;eurasian evergreen thorny shrubs bearing red or orange-red berries
salpinctes;a genus of troglodytidae
glaux;sea milkwort
genus furnarius;type genus of the family furnariidae: ovenbirds
ixobrychus;bitterns
genus sternotherus;musk turtles
family iguania;new world lizards
myrtle family;trees and shrubs yielding a fragrant oil
genus liquidambar;sweet gum
clethraceae;coextensive with the genus clethra
holothuroidea;class of echinoderms including the sea cucumbers
genus phytelephas;small genus of south american feather palms
genus poterium;a genus of thorny herbs or shrubs of the family rosaceae
atropa;belladonna
family labiatae;the mints: aromatic herbs and shrubs having flowers resembling the lips of a mouth and four-lobed ovaries yielding four one-seeded nutlets and including thyme. sage. rosemary
sarcodina;characterized by the formation of pseudopods for locomotion and taking food: actinopoda. rhizopoda
family ascaridae;large roundworms parasitic in intestines of vertebrates
kalotermes;type genus of kalotermitidae. termites destructive of wood and living trees
lepidobotryaceae;family created in 1950 solely for the classification of a distinctive african tree repeatedly classified in other families. trees long believed to exist only in africa
volvocaceae;unicellular or colonial biflagellate free-swimming flagellates
ornithopoda;widespread group including duck-billed dinosaurs and their early relatives (hadrosaurs. trachodon. iguanodon)
genus acrocarpus;small genus of trees of indomalaysia
genus cypripedium;genus of chiefly american perennial leafy-stemmed orchids: lady's slippers. sometimes includes species of genus paphiopedilum
melanogrammus;haddock
genus laburnum;flowering shrubs or trees having bright yellow flowers. all parts of the plant are poisonous
marsileaceae;clover ferns
rattus;common house rats. upper incisors have a beveled edge
hydrocharitaceae;simple nearly stemless freshwater aquatic plants. widely distributed
family apidae;honeybees. carpenter bees. bumblebees
amaranthaceae;cosmopolitan family of herbs and shrubs
genus odobenus;type genus of the odobenidae: walruses
family zygophyllaceae;small trees, shrubs, and herbs of warm arid and saline regions. often resinous. some poisonous: genera zygophyllum. tribulus. guaiacum: larrea
family plethodontidae;small mostly terrestrial new world salamanders having neither lungs nor gills as adults
agastache;giant hyssop. mexican hyssop
genus ligularia;genus of old world herbs resembling groundsel: leopard plants
manidae;coextensive with the order pholidota
menispermum;climbing herbs
genus meryta;small to medium evergreen dioecious trees of oceanic climates: puka
ascaridia;roundworm having a preanal sucker
genus lysiloma;small genus of tropical american trees and shrubs with pinnate leaves and flat straight pods
peripatopsidae;a family of onychophora
genus atrichornis;type genus of the atrichornithidae
vipera;type genus of the viperidae
platymiscium;genus of tropical american trees: quira
myroxylon;a genus of tropical american trees having pinnate leaves and white flowers
family gempylidae;snake mackerels
arthropteris;tropical and subtropical old world epiphytic or lithophytic ferns
genus sinningia;genus of perennial tuberous herbs and shrubs of central and south america
genus leucanthemum;comprises plants often included in the genus chrysanthemum
genus anemia;genus of terrestrial or lithophytic ferns having pinnatifid almost skeletonlike fronds. chiefly of tropical america
genus daucus;carrot
tringa;a genus of scolopacidae
genus bumelia;deciduous or evergreen american shrubs small trees having very hard wood and milky latex
genus iliamna;small genus of perennial herbs or subshrubs. some often placed in other genera
order moniliales;order of imperfect fungi lacking conidiophores of having conidiophores that are superficial and not enclosed in a pycnidium
melastomaceae;a family of trees and bushes and herbs of order myrtales. many are cultivated as ornamentals
porifera;coextensive with the subkingdom parazoa: sponges
steatornis;type and sole genus of the family steatornithidae
genus stanleya;prince's plume
subclass actinopoda;heliozoans. radiolarians
gonorhynchus;slender cylindrical marine fishes lacking air bladders and teeth
genus datura;thorn apple
sedge family;bulrush. chufa. cotton grass. papyrus. umbrella plant
genus tyrannosaurus;includes a single species
genus adenium;1 species: succulent shrub or tree of tropical africa and arabia
order protura;minute wingless arthropods: telsontails
loosestrife family;herbs and shrubs and small trees with pink or purple flowers
pyrularia;small genus of chiefly asiatic parasitic shrubs
chilomastix;flagellates parasitic in intestines of vertebrates including humans
box elder;common shade tree of eastern and central united states
cucurbitaceae;a family of herbaceous vines (such cucumber or melon or squash or pumpkin)
phaeophyta;coextensive with class phaeophyceae. in some classifications subsumed in the division heterokontophyta
cynoscion;sea trout
genus triops;type genus of the family triopidae: small crustaceans with a small third median eye
family salpidae;a small family of tunicates in the class thaliacea
fremontia;flannelbush
family callitrichaceae;dicot aquatic herbs
family sciaenidae;warm-water marine fishes including the drums and grunts and croakers and sea trout
genus venus;type genus of the family veneridae: genus of edible clams with thick oval shells
malaconotinae;african bush shrikes
genus crocuta;a genus of hyaenidae
genus anadenanthera;2 species of tropical american shrubs or trees
megatherium;type genus of the megatheriidae
order cydippidea;ctenophores having two long pinnate tentacles
ictiobus;buffalo fishes
genus kennedya;genus of australian woody vines having showy red or purplish flowers
hydrodamalis;a genus of the family dugongidae comprising only steller's sea cow
family stromateidae;butterfishes: harvest fishes. dollar fishes
genus dasypus;type genus of the dasypodidae
genus nyctanassa;american night herons
cryptobranchus;type genus of the cryptobranchidae
scaphopoda;small class of bilaterally symmetrical marine forms comprising the tooth shells
genus spirodela;minute aquatic herbs floating on the water surface consisting of a shiny leaflike frond and 2-21 roots
family cupressaceae;cypresses and junipers and many cedars
family gentianaceae;chiefly herbaceous plants with showy flowers. some are cultivated as ornamentals
genus pulex;type genus of the pulicidae
family oleaceae;trees and shrubs having berries or drupes or capsules as fruits. sometimes placed in the order oleales: olive. ash. jasmine. privet. lilac
genus merops;type genus of the meropidae
genus hymenophyllum;type genus of the hymenophyllaceae: filmy ferns
spirochaetales;higher bacteria. slender spiral rodlike forms
parrotiopsis;1 species: deciduous tree of himalaya
family chloranthaceae;small family of tropical herbs and shrubs and trees
family talpidae;moles
hyemoschus;water chevrotains
ranidae;nearly cosmopolitan family: true frogs
genus petaurista;very large asiatic flying squirrels
genus cyclamen;genus of widely cultivated flowering eurasian herbs with centrally depressed rounded tubers and rounded heart-shaped leaves
madder family;widely distributed family of mostly tropical trees and shrubs and herbs. includes coffee and chinchona and gardenia and madder and bedstraws and partridgeberry
pluteaceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order agaricales
subclass alismatidae;one of four subclasses or superorders of monocotyledones. comprises about 500 species in 14 families of aquatic and semi-aquatic herbs
phalaenopsis;genus of ornamental epiphytic orchids of asia and australia
lagopus;ptarmigans
lupinus;herbs or shrubs: lupin
rhizopoda;creeping protozoans: amoebas and foraminifers
taxodiaceae;coniferous trees. traditionally considered an independent family though recently included in cupressaceae in some classification systems
family sclerodermataceae;a family of fungi or order sclerodermatales with a single-layered peridium. includes earthballs
family ceratophyllaceae;coextensive with the genus ceratophyllum: hornworts
psithyrus;a large bee that resembles the bumblebee but lacks pollen-collecting apparatus and a worker caste
genus saturnia;type genus of the saturniidae: emperor moth
genus sium;perennial of wet and marshy places in the northern hemisphere: water parsnips
xerophyllum;small genus of north american herbs having grasslike basal leaves: squaw_grass. sometimes placed in family melanthiaceae
casuarinaceae;1 genus: casuarina
genus eretmochelys;hawksbills
genus testudo;type genus of the testudinidae
arcellidae;soil an freshwater protozoa. cosmopolitan
apus;type genus
glaucomys;new world flying squirrels
division anthophyta;comprising flowering plants that produce seeds enclosed in an ovary. in some systems considered a class (angiospermae) and in others a division (magnoliophyta or anthophyta)
genus anacardium;type genus of the anacardiaceae: cashew
genus rachycentron;genus and family are coextensive and comprise only the cobia
genus pithecellobium;thorny shrubs and trees of tropical and subtropical america and asia
coccyzus;a genus of cuculidae
genus petasites;genus of rhizomatous herbs of north temperate regions: butterbur. sweet coltsfoot
katsuwonidae;in some classifications considered a separate family comprising the oceanic bonitos
plectorrhiza;small genus of australian orchids
galeopsis;erect annual european herbs
genus amphibolips;cynipid gall wasps, esp. causing oak-apple galls
saxifragaceae;a large and diverse family of evergreen or deciduous herbs. widely distributed in northern temperate and cold regions. sometimes includes genera of the family hydrangeaceae
mulloidichthys;a genus of mullidae
sitotroga;grain moths
asphodeline;genus of rhizomatous perennial or biennial herbs with numerous sometimes fragrant flowers in long cylindrical racemes. mediterranean region to caucasus. sometimes placed in family asphodelaceae
dennstaedtiaceae;one of a number of families into which polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems. includes genera blotiella. dennstaedtia. histiopteris. hypolepis. leptolepia. lindsaea. lonchitis. microlepia. odontosoria. oenotrichia. paesia. pteridium. saccoloma. sphenomeris
anthus;pipits
family hostaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted. includes genus hosta
division eumycota;true fungi. eukaryotic heterotrophic walled organisms. distinguished from myxomycota (funguslike slime molds): comprises subdivisions mastigomycotina. zygomycotina. ascomycotina. basidiomycotina. deuteromycotina (imperfect fungi)
portunidae;swimming crabs
genus momordica;old world tropical vine
dasyatidae;sting rays
dictamnus;a dicotyledonous genus of the family rutaceae
hesperiphona;evening grosbeak
genus gerbera;genus of south african or asiatic herbs: african daisies
order psittaciformes;an order of birds including parrots and amazons and cockatoos and lorikeets and lories and macaws and parakeets
carcharias;type and sole genus of carchariidae: sand sharks
genus anagasta;moth whose larvae are flour moths
ixodidae;hard ticks
genus moloch;genus of australian desert lizard
euderma;a genus of vespertilionidae
genus antheropeas;small genus of north american herbs often included in genus eriophyllum
orchidales;order of plants with irregular flowers having minute seeds: orchidaceae. burmanniaceae
sapodilla family;tropical trees or shrubs with milky juice and often edible fleshy fruit
heterobasidiomycetes;category used in some classification systems for various basidiomycetous fungi including rusts and smuts
family diomedeidae;albatrosses
phascogale;pouched mice
echinacea;small genus of north american coarse perennial herbs
family hexanchidae;primitive sharks
family membracidae;plant hoppers: treehoppers
eugenia;tropical trees and shrubs with aromatic leaves and often valuable hard wood
genus squilla;type genus of the family squillidae
genus xylomelum;small species of australian trees or shrubs. grown for their fruit and flowers
genus wynnea;a genus of fungi belonging to the family sarcoscyphaceae
botrychium;grape fern. moonwort
genus rosellinia;fungi having smooth perithecia with dark one-celled ascospores
convolvulaceae;morning_glory. bindweed. sweet potato. plants having trumpet-shaped flowers and a climbing or twining habit
family lucanidae;stag beetles
subphylum tunicata;tunicates
hymenoptera;an order of insects including: bees. wasps. ants. ichneumons. sawflies. gall wasps. etc.
genus peripatus;type genus of peripatidae. onychophorans of chiefly new world tropical regions
genus trogium;a genus of psocidae
lycopodiaceae;a family of ferns belonging to the order lycopodiales
genus mayaca;small genus of delicate mossy bog plants having white or violet flowers
genus salpichroa;herbs of temperate north and south america: cock's eggs
casuaridae;a family of large ostrich-like birds including cassowaries
genus oxydendrum;sourwood
family mucoraceae;large family of chiefly saprophytic fungi that includes many common molds destructive to food products
thecodontia;extinct terrestrial reptiles having teeth set in sockets. of the late permian to triassic
genus cenchrus;a genus of grasses of the family gramineae that have burs
claviceps;fungi parasitic upon the ovaries of various grasses
nelumbonaceae;in some classifications considered an independent family of water lilies. comprises the single genus nelumbo
himantopus;major one of two genera of stilts. similar to avocets but with straight bills
genus alstonia;genus of evergreen trees or shrubs with white funnel-shaped flowers and milky sap. tropical africa to southeastern asia and polynesia
genus boehmeria;false nettle
megalosauridae;megalosaurs
genus anarhichas;type genus of the anarhichadidae
mellivora;ratels
suborder homoptera;plant lice (aphids). whiteflies. cicadas. leafhoppers. plant_hoppers. scale insects and mealybugs. spittle insects
onychogalea;a genus of macropodidae
polypodiales;true (leptosporangiate) ferns
genus monotropa;leafless fleshy saprophytic plants. in some classifications placed in the family_pyrolaceae
saxe gothea;1 species: prince albert's yew
astreus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family geastraceae
neurotrichus;shrew moles
genus scrophularia;type genus of scrophulariaceae. named for the plants' supposed ability to cure scrofula: figworts
family hippoboscidae;winged or wingless dipterans: louse flies
order falconiformes;chiefly diurnal carnivorous birds having hooked beaks and long talons with opposable hind toe: falcons. hawks. eagles. ospreys. caracaras. vultures
genus anopheles;malaria mosquitoes. distinguished by the adult's head-downward stance and absence of breathing tubes in the larvae
sapindales;an order od dicotyledonous plants
genus crotalaria;large genus of herbs with simple leaves and racemes of yellow flowers. mainly of tropical africa
scombridae;marine food fishes: mackerels. chub mackerels. tuna
mazama;brockets
wynnea;a genus of fungi belonging to the family sarcoscyphaceae
genus lunaria;small genus of european herbs: honesty
thryothorus;carolina wrens
genus noctua;type genus of the noctuidae: moths whose larvae are cutworms
caesalpinioideae;alternative name in some classification systems for the family caesalpiniaceae
caper family;a dilleniid dicot family of the order rhoeadales that includes: genera capparis. cleome. crateva. polanisia
order chelonia;tortoises and turtles
scirpus;rhizomatous perennial grasslike herbs
genus kiggelaria;small genus of south african shrubs or small trees
suborder eurylaimi;broadbills
myxinikela;fossil hagfishes
caryophyllidae;a group of families of mostly flowers having basal or free-central placentation and trinucleate pollen (binucleate pollen is commoner in flowering plants). contains 14 families including: caryophyllaceae (carnations and pinks). aizoaceae. amaranthaceae. batidaceae. chenopodiaceae. cactaceae (order opuntiales). nyctaginaceae. phytolaccaceae. corresponds approximately to order caryophyllales. sometimes classified as a superorder
columbiformes;sand grouse. pigeons. doves. extinct dodos and solitaires
family pyrrhocoridae;firebugs
tachyglossus;type genus of the family tachyglossidae
genus chamaeleo;type genus of the chamaeleontidae
family palmaceae;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines usually having a tall columnar trunk bearing a crown of very large leaves. coextensive with the order palmales
trumpet vine;a north american woody vine having pinnate leaves and large red trumpet-shaped flowers
animal kingdom;taxonomic kingdom comprising all living or extinct animals
genus hypsiglena;night snakes
genus threskiornis;type genus of the threskiornithidae
flacourtia;often spiny trees or shrubs of tropical asia and africa
genus angelica;biennial of perennial taprooted herbs of northern hemisphere
genus aptenodytes;large penguins
family elephantidae;elephants
class pyrenomycetes;class of fungi in which the fruiting body is a perithecium. includes powdery mildews and ergot and neurospora
dicamptodontidae;large and small highly aquatic salamanders
genus telanthera;used in former classifications systems. now included in genus alternanthera
rhagoletis;a genus of trypetidae
genus dianthus;carnations and pinks
family sylviidae;in some classifications considered a subfamily (sylviinae) of the family muscicapidae: old world (true) warblers. american kinglets and gnatcatchers
simulium;type genus of the simuliidae: blackflies
genus myrmecobius;banded anteater
family sturnidae;old world starlings
family vombatidae;wombats
order ornithischia;extinct terrestrial reptiles having birdlike pelvises: armored dinosaurs (thyreophorans). bone-headed and horned dinosaurs (marginocephalians). duck-billed dinosaurs (euronithopods)
genus lagostomus;viscachas
genus coccothraustes;large finches
genus vittaria;tropical epiphytic ferns with straplike fronds
macrotis;a genus of peramelidae
symphoricarpos alba;deciduous shrub of western north america having spikes of pink flowers followed by round white berries
amauropelta;epiphytic or terrestrial ferns of america and africa and polynesia
ptyas;asian rat snakes
genus lemur;type genus of the lemuridae
triops;type genus of the family triopidae: small crustaceans with a small third median eye
genus isoetes;type and genus of the isoetaceae and sole extant genus of the order isoetales
genus arvicola;in some classifications considered synonymous with microtus
family ophiodontidae;fishes closely related to greenlings
portulacacaea;family of usually succulent herbs. cosmopolitan in distribution especially in americas
hamamelites;genus of fossil plants having leaves similar to those of the witch hazel
tribe bovini;term not used technically. essentially coextensive with genus bos
genus descurainia;includes annual or biennial herbs of america and europe very similar to and often included among those of genera sisymbrium or hugueninia. not recognized in some classification systems
commelinales;an order of monocotyledonous herbs
lemna;minute aquatic herbs floating on or below the water surface of still water consisting of a leaflike frond or plant body and single root
genus cestrum;genus of fragrant tropical american shrubs
pongidae;usually considered as comprising orangutans. gorillas. chimpanzees. and sometimes gibbons
genus sarcoptes;type genus of the family sarcoptidae: itch mites
genus phoradendron;any of various american parasitic plants similar to old world mistletoe: false mistletoe
genus cosmocampus;a genus of fish in the family syngnathidae
form;(biology) a group of organisms within a species that differ in trivial ways from similar groups. 'a new strain of microorganisms'
genus melolontha;a genus of melolonthidae
genus conuropsis;a genus of psittacidae
salicornia;glassworts
family sapindaceae;chiefly tropical new and old world deciduous and evergreen trees and shrubs bearing leathery drupes with yellow translucent flesh. most plants produce toxic saponins
iguanodontidae;iguanodons
bacteroidaceae;family of bacteria living usually in the alimentary canal or on mucous surfaces of warm-blooded animals. sometimes associated with acute infective processes
ragee;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
superorder ratitae;used in former classifications to include all ratite bird orders
genus nephthytis;small genus of tropical western african creeping or twining herbs
genus tetraclinis;sandarac tree
yam family;yams
genus kolkwitzia;chinese genus of 1 species: beauty bush
family scrophulariaceae;a family of dicotyledonous plants of the order polemoniales. includes figwort and snapdragon and foxglove and toadflax and speedwell and mullein. in some classifications placed in the order scrophulariales
genus dipteronia;small genus of large deciduous shrubs having large clusters of winged seeds that turn red as they mature. central and southern china
zygoptera;damselflies
family dendrocolaptidae;woodhewers or woodcreepers
achras;tropical trees having papery leaves and large fruit
genus solenopsis;fire ants
genus ageratum;genus of tropical american herbs grown for their flowers
plantain family;cosmopolitan family of small herbs and a few shrubs. most are troublesome weeds
tussilago;genus of low creeping yellow-flowered perennial herbs of north temperate regions: coltsfoots. in some classifications includes species often placed in other genera especially homogyne and petasites
poa;chiefly perennial grasses of cool temperate regions
genus syzygium;a tropical evergreen tree of the myrtle family native to the east indies but cultivated elsewhere
fundulus;killifish
order eubacteriales;one of two usually recognized orders of true bacteria. gram-positive spherical or rod-shaped forms. some are motile. in some classifications considered an order of schizomycetes
genus timalia;type genus of the timaliidae
genus arbutus;large evergreen shrubs and trees of southern europe and western north america: strawberry tree. madrona
genus dracaena;old world tropical plants with branches ending in tufts of sword-shaped leaves. in some classifications considered a genus of liliaceae
family malacanthidae;short-headed marine fishes. often brightly colored
pokeweed family;chiefly tropical herbaceous plants (including shrubs and trees) with racemose flowers: genera phytolacca. agdestis. ercilla. rivina. trichostigma
genus colinus;new world quail: the bobwhites
genus impatiens;annual or perennial herbs with stems more or less succulent. cosmopolitan except for south america, australia, and new zealand
cochlearius;boatbills
genus leuciscus;a genus of fish including: dace, chub
subdivision zygomycota;division of fungi having sexually produced zygospores
genus calamus;a genus of sparidae
genus nyctereutes;raccoon dogs
dryopithecus;genus of old world hominoids. miocene and pliocene
haliaeetus;a genus of accipitridae
division spermatophyta;seed plants. comprises the angiospermae (or magnoliophyta) and gymnospermae (or gymnospermophyta). in some classification systems spermatophyta is coordinate with pteridophyta (spore producing plants having vascular tissue and roots) and bryophyta (spore producing plants lacking vascular tissue and roots)
rutilus;roaches
drynaria;large robust epiphytic ferns of tropical forest and scrub. africa and asia and australia
genus columnea;genus of tropical american subshrubs and lianas
lepidodendrales;fossil arborescent plants arising during the lower devonian and conspicuous throughout the carboniferous
genus trapa;small genus of eurasian aquatic perennial herbs: water chestnut
orthotomus;tailorbirds
monardella;a genus of fragrant herbs of the family labiatae in the western united states
fucales;coextensive with the family fucaceae
division cynodontia;a division of triassic therapsida comprising small carnivorous tetrapod reptiles often with mammal-like teeth
arrow grass family;a family of monocotyledonous bog herbs of order naiadales
cedrela;tropical american trees
family alstroemeriaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted. sometimes included in subfamily amaryllidaceae
genus acanthisitta;a genus of xenicidae
lepidosauria;diapsid reptiles: lizards. snakes. tuataras
genus palinurus;type genus of the family palinuridae
mushroom pimple;any of various mushrooms of the family hypocreaceae
genus hesperiphona;evening grosbeak
striped dogwood;maple of eastern north america with striped bard and large 2-lobed leaves clear yellow in autumn
geophilomorpha;small elongate centipedes living in soil and under stones and having more than 30 pairs of legs
genus sturnus;type genus of the sturnidae: common starlings
genus conyza;common american weed or wildflower
order santalales;order of plants distinguished by having a one-celled inferior ovary. many are parasitic or partly parasitic usually on roots
lovoa;genus of african timber trees
iresine;genus of tropical american herbs or subshrubs
genus camelina;annual and biennial herbs of mediterranean to central asia
genus aspalathus;genus of south african heathlike shrubs
genus uta;a reptile genus of iguanidae
genus lindera;aromatic evergreen or deciduous dioecious shrubs or trees of eastern asia and north america
genus mayetiola;a genus of cecidomyidae
molluga;carpetweeds
oscillatoriaceae;blue green algae
orontium;1 species of aquatic plant: golden club
camelus;type genus of the camelidae: camels
genus lycaena;type genus of the lycaenidae. small slender butterflies with upper surface of wings usually metallic blue or green or copper
genus oxandra;genus of tropical trees
family guttiferae;widely distributed family of chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines that produce oils and resins and some usable timber
genus reithrodontomys;new world harvest mice
vespula;sometimes considered a subgenus of vespa: social wasps
thelephoraceae;fungi having leathery or membranous sporaphores
sciadopityaceae;family comprising a single genus that until recently was considered part of taxodiaceae
mayaca;small genus of delicate mossy bog plants having white or violet flowers
genus hovea;genus of australian evergreen shrubs
fungus genus;includes lichen genera
numidinae;guinea fowl and related birds of africa and madagascar
genus arthropteris;tropical and subtropical old world epiphytic or lithophytic ferns
genus sanguinaria;1 species: bloodroot
ascidiaceae;sometimes classified as an order: sea_squirts
leptarrhena;1 species: leatherleaf saxifrage
genus panax;perennial herbs of eastern north america and asia having aromatic tuberous roots: ginseng
chaetodipterus;a genus of ephippidae
genus rhizobium;the type genus of rhizobiaceae. usually occur in the root nodules of legumes. can fix atmospheric oxygen
myxomycetes;the class of true slime molds. essentially equivalent to the division myxomycota
trachipteridae;ribbonfishes
dactyloctenium;a monocotyledonous genus of the family gramineae
thamnophilus;a genus of formicariidae
alcedinidae;kingfishers
desmid;freshwater green algae
helix;type genus of the family helicidae
cepphus;a genus of birds including: guillemots
armillaria;genus of edible mushrooms having white spores an annulus and blue juice. some are edible. some cause root rot
callorhinus;fur seals
genus morone;carnivorous fresh and salt water fishes
genus coumarouna;tropical american trees: tonka beans
genus phocaena;porpoises
prociphilus;a genus of aphididae
genus storeria;a genus of colubridae
genus ruptiliocarpon;new (1993) genus of trees of central america now recognized as similar to those of genus lepidobotrys
pyrrhocoridae;firebugs
rhizobiaceae;a small family of rod-shaped bacteria
genus polyprion;wreckfish
genus trinectes;a genus of soleidae
family rallidae;rails. crakes. gallinules. coots
family oriolidae;old world orioles
tribonemaceae;simple filamentous freshwater yellow-green algae
genus bos;wild and domestic cattle. in some classifications placed in the subfamily bovinae or tribe bovini
genus kniphofia;genus of showy clump-forming african herbs with grasslike leaves. sometimes placed in family aloeaceae
epipremnum;small genus of evergreen lianas of southeastern asia to western pacific areas
cryptogamia;in former classification systems: one of two major plant divisions, including all plants that do not bear seeds: ferns, mosses, algae, fungi
genus sesbania;small genus of tropical and subtropical leguminous herbs or shrubs or trees
order scandentia;a small order comprising only the tree shrews: in some classifications tree shrews are considered either primates (and included in the suborder prosimii) or true insectivores (and included in the order_insectivora)
family liliaceae;includes species sometimes divided among the following families: alliaceae. aloeaceae. alstroemeriaceae. aphyllanthaceae. asparagaceae. asphodelaceae. colchicaceae. convallariaceae. hemerocallidaceae. hostaceae. hyacinthaceae. melanthiaceae. ruscaceae. smilacaceae. tecophilaeacea. xanthorrhoeaceae
aster family;plants with heads composed of many florets: aster. daisy. dandelion. goldenrod. marigold. lettuces. ragweed. sunflower. thistle. zinnia
genus fritillaria;fritillary
genus scirpus;rhizomatous perennial grasslike herbs
consolida;plants having larkspurlike flowers differing from larkspurs in arrangement of petals. sometimes included in genus delphinium
suborder plesiosauria;any of the plesiosaurs
genus alectoria;lichens having dark brown erect or pendulous much-branched cylindrical thallus
sarcophilus;tasmanian devil
combretum family;a family of tropical trees and shrubs of the order myrtales
satureia;savory
genus angiopteris;1 species: tree fern
genus callisaurus;zebra-tailed lizard
family electrophoridae;small family comprising the electric eels
luscinia;nightingales
family aspleniaceae;one of a number of families into which polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems. includes genera asplenium. pleurosorus. schaffneria
genus vigna;genus of vines or erect herbs having trifoliate leaves and yellowish or purplish flowers. of warm or tropical regions. most species often placed in genus phaseolus
order testudinata;tortoises and turtles
genus macadamia;trees or shrubs. madagascar to australia
genus iresine;genus of tropical american herbs or subshrubs
palaemonidae;prawns
symphytum;comfrey
proteaceae;large family of australian and south african shrubs and trees with leathery leaves and clustered mostly tetramerous flowers. constitutes the order proteales
genus cuculus;type genus of the cuculidae
genus ajuga;bugle
suborder menotyphla;elephant shrews. tree shrews
family chamaeleonidae;old world chameleons. in some classifications rhiptoglossa is considered a superfamily of sauria
lycaeon;african hunting dog
genus cepphus;a genus of birds including: guillemots
whorlywort;a tall perennial herb having spikes of small white or purple flowers. common in eastern north america
genus vallisneria;eelgrass. eel grass
eryngium;large genus of decorative plants with thistlelike flower heads. cosmopolitan in distribution
carangidae;large family of narrow-bodied marine food fishes with widely forked tails. chiefly of warm seas
family ophioglossaceae;a family of succulent ferns of order ophioglossales. cosmopolitan in distribution
athiorhodaceae;small motile sulphur bacteria
genus cibotium;in some classification systems placed in family cyatheaceae: ornamental tree ferns with coarse gracefully drooping fronds
genus scolopendrium;a genus of ferns belonging to the family polypodiaceae (in some classification systems included in genus asplenium)
tulostoma;type genus of the tulostomaceae
hemerobiidae;brown lacewings
genus ophrys;a hardy genus of terrestrial orchids of europe and northern africa and western asia
family fasciolidae;a family of trematoda
family oxyuridae;pinworms
subdivision gnetophytina;gymnospermous flowering plants. supposed link between conifers and angiosperms. in some systems classified as as class (gnetopsida) and in others as a subdivision (gnetophytina or gnetophyta)
genus corydalus;type genus of the corydalidae
hystricidae;old world porcupines
family lophiidae;large-headed marine fishes comprising the anglers
typhlopidae;blind snakes
family rhyniaceae;primitive plants of the paleozoic
picoides;a genus of picidae
anthonomus;weevils destructive of cultivated plants
vangueria;tropical african and asiatic trees and shrubs having one-seeded fruit
family tipulidae;crane flies
genus clethrionomys;a genus of cricetidae
genus symphytum;comfrey
dioscorea;yams
stenotomus;scups
genus pinckneya;small genus of shrubs or small trees of southeastern united states and northern south america
genus fulmarus;fulmars
bird genus;a genus of birds
strobilomyces;fungi similar to boletus but with a shaggy scaly cap
triturus;chiefly aquatic salamanders
smyrnium;alexanders
trinectes;a genus of soleidae
genus callithrix;type genus of the callithricidae: true marmosets
barn millet;a coarse annual panic grass. a cosmopolitan weed. occasionally used for hay or grazing
chrysophyta;mostly freshwater eukaryotic algae having the chlorophyll masked by brown or yellow pigment. yellow-green and golden-brown algae and diatoms: xanthophyceae, chrysophyceae, bacillariophyceae. some some classification systems superseded or subsumed by heterokontophyta
genus livistona;fan palms of asia and australia and malaysia
genus anthidium;potter bees
echinodermata;radially symmetrical marine invertebrates including e.g. starfish and sea urchins and sea cucumbers
hydrastis;small genus of perennial herbs having rhizomes and palmate leaves and small solitary flowers. of northeastern united states and japan
genus polianthes;genus of perennial tuberous herbs having lilylike flowers. mexico. sometimes placed in family amaryllidaceae
family davalliaceae;one of a number of families into which polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems. includes genera araiostegia. davallia. davallodes. gymnogrammitis. humata. leucostegia. scyphularia. trogostolon
tachypleus;a genus of limulidae
genus aletris;small genus of bitter-rooted herbs of eastern north america and asia. sometimes placed in family melanthiaceae
genus peridinium;type genus of the family peridiniidae
calocedrus;tall evergreens of western north america and eastern asia. formerly included in genus libocedrus
genus ceratopetalum;a dicotyledonous genus of the family cunoniaceae
genus tarpon;tarpons
thielavia;genus of fungi having spherical brown perithecia and some conidia borne in chains. cause root rot
genus psittacula;a genus of psittacidae
senecio;enormous and diverse cosmopolitan genus of trees and shrubs and vines and herbs including many weeds
genus molva;ling
templetonia;genus of australian shrubs or subshrubs: coral bush
family phaethontidae;tropicbirds
genus buchloe;buffalo grass
myristicaceae;family of aromatic tropical trees with arillate seeds
genus castanopsis;evergreen trees and shrubs of warm regions valued for their foliage. southeastern united states and eastern australia and northern new zealand
order tuberales;small order of fungi belonging to the subdivision ascomycota having closed underground ascocarps
genus froelichia;genus of erect or procumbent herbs of the americas having spikes of woolly white flowers: cottonweed
family ursidae;bears and extinct related forms
genus ibis;ibises
gopherus;gopher tortoises
chinchillidae;small bushy-tailed south american burrowing rodents
genus ornithorhynchus;type genus of the family ornithorhynchidae
malpighiaceae;tropical shrubs or trees
ephedraceae;ephedras: in some classifications included in the gnetaceae
trichoptera;an order of insects consisting of caddis flies
family canidae;dogs. wolves. jackals. foxes
pisces;a group of vertebrates comprising both cartilaginous and bony fishes and sometimes including the jawless vertebrates. not used technically
class sarcodina;characterized by the formation of pseudopods for locomotion and taking food: actinopoda. rhizopoda
bramidae;deep-bodied percoid fishes of the open seas
genus deparia;classification used for 5 species of terrestrial ferns usually placed in other genera
genus agrimonia;genus of herbs found chiefly in north temperate regions having pinnate leaves and yellow flowers followed by bristly fruit
eretmochelys;hawksbills
genus noctiluca;a genus of protoctista
delairea;1 species: german ivy
olfersia;1 species. in some classification systems included in genus polyboatrya
sarda;bonitos
elagatis;a genus of carangidae
procaviidae;includes all recent members of the order hyracoidea
genus deinocheirus;a reptile genus of ornithomimida
lygaeidae;lygaeid bugs
genus illicium;anise_trees: evergreen trees with aromatic leaves
family pennatulidae;sea pens
lopholatilus;large brightly colored food fish of deep atlantic waters
genus lycaeon;african hunting dog
genus pelecanus;type genus of the pelecanidae
branchiura;copepods with suctorial mouthparts. parasitic on fishes
genus ustilago;type genus of the ustilaginaceae. genus comprising the loose smuts
plant kingdom;taxonomic kingdom comprising all living or extinct plants
genus fomes;genus of bracket fungi forming corky or woody perennial shelflike sporophores often of large size. includes some that cause destructive heartrot in trees
agaricus;type genus of agaricaceae. gill fungi having brown spores and including several edible species
libocedrus;cypresses that resemble cedars
genus rosmarinus;rosemary
genus trichostema;genus of north american aromatic herbs or subshrubs: blue curls
pagellus;sea breams
family chamaeleontidae;old world chameleons. in some classifications rhiptoglossa is considered a superfamily of sauria
chalcididae;an arthropod family including: chalcidflies
columbidae;doves and pigeons
genus arethusa;genus of bog orchids of north america and japan
genus phoenicophorium;latanier palm
gymnosperm family;a family of gymnosperms
genus haliotis;type genus of the family haliotidae
suborder anthropoidea;monkeys. apes. hominids
family gobiidae;gobies
family geophilidae;small extremely elongate earth-living centipedes
order hyracoidea;hyraxes and some extinct animals
peripatidae;a family of onychophora
order cuculiformes;cuckoos. touracos. etc.
bryozoa;marine or freshwater animals that form colonies of zooids
triopidae;a family of notostraca
phoronidea;small phylum of wormlike marine animals
olive family;trees and shrubs having berries or drupes or capsules as fruits. sometimes placed in the order oleales: olive. ash. jasmine. privet. lilac
molva;ling
ophidiidae;eel-like marine fishes
opiliones;harvestmen
pyrolaceae;evergreen herbs of temperate regions: genera pyrola. chimaphila. moneses. orthilia
hyalophora;american silkworm moth
order alcyonaria;corals and sea anemones having eight branches
order anguilliformes;elongate fishes with pelvic fins and girdle absent or reduced
jynx;wrynecks
physidae;freshwater snails
naja;cobras
order chelonethida;false scorpions
ctenophora;comb jellies. sea acorns. a small phylum formerly considered a class of coelenterata
guttiferales;used in some classifications. coextensive with parietales
osteichthyes;a class of fish having a skeleton composed of bone in addition to cartilage
amphibia;frogs. toads. newts. salamanders. caecilians
family begoniaceae;monoecious succulent herbs or shrubs of tropical and warm regions especially america
family ceratopsidae;american ceratopsian dinosaurs
genus ectopistes;a genus of columbidae
lactophrys;a genus of ostraciidae
goose grass;coarse annual grass having fingerlike spikes of flowers. native to old world tropics. a naturalized weed elsewhere
genus beta;beets
genus phaius;genus of asiatic ans australian terrestrial orchids
genus sauromalus;chuckwallas
genus calamagrostis;reed grass
hydrobatidae;storm petrels
phyllostomus;type genus of the family phyllostomatidae
lobotes;type genus of the lobotidae
biscutella;genus of eurasian herbs and small shrubs: buckler mustard
genus pleurosorus;small genus comprising terrestrial ferns formerly placed in genera ceterach or grammitis or gymnogramma. chile. spain and morocco. australia and new zealand
genus aplectrum;a monocotyledonous genus of the family orchicaceae
family sittidae;nuthatches
pereskia;genus of tropical american shrubby trees and woody climbers having slender branches with broad flat leaves and large panicles of flowers
genus raoulia;genus of low-growing mat-forming new zealand plants. in some classifications includes species placed in genus haastia
pagrus;a genus of sparidae
arthropod genus;a genus of arthropods
ciliata;class of protozoa having cilia or hairlike appendages on part or all of the surface during some part of the life cycle
genus micrurus;coral snakes
embothrium;small genus of south american evergreen shrubs or small trees with long willowy branches and flowers in flamboyant terminal clusters
aplodontia;type genus of the aplodontiidae: comprising the mountain beavers
genus campyloneurum;epiphytic ferns of tropical america
genus populus;a genus of trees of the family salicaceae that is found in the northern hemisphere. poplars
genus ustilaginoidea;genus of imperfect fungi causing smutlike diseases
chlorura;towhees
family uintatheriidae;an extinct family of dinocerata
protea family;large family of australian and south african shrubs and trees with leathery leaves and clustered mostly tetramerous flowers. constitutes the order proteales
osmeridae;smelts
suborder sauria;true lizards. including chameleons and geckos
catasetum;genus of tropical american orchids having showy male and female flowers usually on separate inflorescences
bombyx;type genus of the bombycidae: chinese silkworm moth
perissodactyla;nonruminant ungulates: horses. tapirs. rhinoceros. extinct forms
family tytonidae;comprising only the barn owls
genus enterobius;pinworms
rotifera;a phylum including: rotifers
dilleniidae;a group of families of more or less advanced trees and shrubs and herbs having either polypetalous or gamopetalous corollas and often with ovules attached to the walls of the ovary. contains 69 families including ericaceae and cruciferae and malvaceae. sometimes classified as a superorder
family uranoscopidae;stargazers
inachis;a genus of nymphalidae
genus onychium;small terrestrial ferns of old world tropics and subtropics: claw ferns. sometimes placed in family cryptogrammataceae
simuliidae;blackflies and sand flies
genus inula;genus of old world herbs or subshrubs: elecampane
dasypus;type genus of the dasypodidae
family crocodylidae;true crocodiles
pseudoscorpionida;false scorpions
zamiaceae;a family of cycads often included in the family cycadaceae: zamias
genus thomomys;western pocket gophers
genus althaea;hollyhocks. in some classification systems synonymous with alcea
hypocreales;used in some classifications for the family hypocreaceae
gerridae;an arthropod family that includes water striders
hyacinthoides;small genus of perennial bulbs of western europe and north africa. sometimes placed in family hyacinthaceae
order cydippea;ctenophores having two long pinnate tentacles
genus aythya;canvasback. redhead. pochard. etc.
sparganiaceae;coextensive with the genus sparganium
genus helenium;genus of american herbs with yellow-rayed flowers: sneezeweeds
family hominidae;modern man and extinct immediate ancestors of man
chamaecyparis;a genus of chamaecyparis
genus stephanomeria;malheur wire lettuce
genus tyto;type and only genus of the family tytonidae
division dicynodontia;a division of therapsida
mugil;type genus of the mugilidae: mullets
genus spiranthes;large cosmopolitan genus of white-flowered terrestrial orchids
stylophorum;wood poppies
raptores;term used in former classifications. erroneously grouped together birds of the orders falconiformes and strigiformes
pipra;type genus of the pipridae containing the typical manakins
genus chlorophis;african green snakes
ochna;type genus of ochnaceae. evergreen trees and shrubs of old world tropics
genus setophaga;a genus of parulidae
genus gavia;type genus of the gavidae: loons
genus symphalangus;used in some classifications for the siamangs
genus subularia;small genus of herbs of north temperate regions and mountains of tropical africa
rosa;large genus of erect or climbing prickly shrubs including roses
order plectognathi;boxfishes. filefishes. globefishes. ocean sunfishes. triggerfishes. puffers
scolopax;type of the scolopacidae: old world woodcocks
uropsilus;shrew moles
silurus;type genus of the siluridae: catfishes
gallinago;snipes
cryptophyceae;motile usually brownish-green protozoa-like algae
family phoenicopteridae;flamingos
genus podargus;type genus of the podargidae
carica;type genus of the caricaceae. tropical american trees: papayas
genus plumbago;shrubs and herbs and woody vines of warm regions: leadwort
daucus;carrot
gerea;small genus of hairy herbs with yellow flowers
vitaceae;a family of vines belonging to order rhamnales
genus ophiodon;a genus of ophiodontidae
larix;larches
family cicindelidae;tiger beetles
arisarum;tuberous or rhizomatous perennial herbs. mainly mediterranean area
platycerium;often epiphytic tropical old world ferns
family gleicheniaceae;a family of ferns belonging to order filicales
genus zanthoxylum;deciduous or evergreen trees or shrubs: prickly ash
bambuseae;bamboos
family akeridae;bubble shells
family equidae;horses. asses. zebras. extinct animals
physostigma;african woody vines: calabar beans
chrysolophus;golden pheasants
genus heliophila;genus of south african flowering herbs and subshrubs
oxalidaceae;a family of widely distributed herbs of the order geraniales. have compound leaves and pentamerous flowers
roof mushroom;a large genus of fungi belonging to the family pluteaceae. the shape of the cap resembles a roof. often abundant early in the summer
alpinia;perennial rhizomatous herbs of asia and australia and polynesia having ginger-scented rhizomes
bryaceae;a family of acrocarpous mosses
genus zeus;type genus of the family zeidae
gambusia;mosquitofish
family pinnotheridae;tiny soft-bodied crabs
tiliomycetes;category used in some systems to comprise the two orders ustilaginales (smuts) and uredinales (rusts)
rock spikemoss;tufted spikemoss forming loose spreading mats. eastern north america
paphiopedilum;horticulturally important genus of mainly terrestrial orchids including many hybrids. southeastern asia and indonesia to philippines and solomon islands. paphiopedilum species sometimes included in genus cypripedium
genus tribolium;flour beetles
scomberesox;a genus of scomberesocidae
crassula;type genus of crassulaceae. herbs and small shrubs having woody stems and succulent aerial parts
volvaria;agarics having pink spores and a distinct volva
burhinus;type genus of the burhinidae: stone curlews
subdivision mastigomycotina;fungi in which the spores and gametes are motile. in some systems placed in the phycomycetes group with the zygomycota
subclass copepoda;minute planktonic or parasitic crustaceans
genus hordeum;annual to perennial grasses of temperate northern hemisphere and south america: barley
thrinax;small to medium-sized fan palms
bird family;a family of warm-blooded egg-laying vertebrates characterized by feathers and forelimbs modified as wings
loranthaceae;in some classification includes viscaceae: parasitic or hemiparasitic shrublets or shrubs or small trees of tropical and temperate regions. attach to hosts by haustoria
genus dictyophera;closely related to genus phallus distinguished by an indusium hanging like a skirt from below the pileus
alcyonaria;corals and sea anemones having eight branches
genus loxoma;1 species of terrestrial ferns of new zealand
triticum;annual cereal grasses from mediterranean area. widely cultivated in temperate regions
triaenodon;a genus of triakidae
procyonidae;raccoons. coatis. cacomistles. kinkajous. and sometimes pandas
casuariiformes;a ratite bird order: cassowaries and emus
genus tolypeutes;a genus of dasypodidae
genus chiton;a genus of polyplacophora
family apogonidae;bright-colored marine fishes that incubate eggs in the mouth
chlamydera;a genus of ptilonorhynchidae
genus nerita;type genus of the neritidae
lagerstroemia;shrubs or small trees of tropical asia and africa usually with showy white, pink, or purplish flowers
genus centropristis;sea basses
subphylum urochordata;tunicates
cattail family;perennial marsh plants with creeping rootstocks and long linear leaves
genus lysichiton;skunk cabbage
genus uma;fringe-toed lizard
gerbera;genus of south african or asiatic herbs: african daisies
thamnophis;garter snakes
myxiniformes;hagfishes as distinguished from lampreys
family dicksoniaceae;tree ferns: genera dicksonia. cibotium. culcita. thyrsopteris
genyonemus;a genus of sciaenidae
genus lagopus;ptarmigans
genus oenanthe;wheatears
genus anastomus;openbills
nestor;a genus of psittacidae
genus heterotheca;genus of yellow-flowered north american herbs
genus azadirachta;genus of large important east indian trees: neem trees
wax myrtle family;constituting the order myricales
genus boltonia;genus of tall leafy perennial herbs of eastern america and eastern asia having flowers that resemble asters
grammatophyllum;small genus of large epiphytic or terrestrial orchids of southeastern asia to polynesia. the giants of the orchidaceae having long narrow leaves and drooping flower clusters often 6 feet long
family cannaceae;coextensive with the genus canna
genus brya;genus of prickly shrubs and small trees of the caribbean region. source of a durable hardwood
genus eugenia;tropical trees and shrubs with aromatic leaves and often valuable hard wood
styracaceae;a widely distributed family of shrubs and trees of order ebenales
vespidae;an arthropod family of the order hymenoptera including: yellow jackets. hornets. mason wasps
genus pandanus;type genus of the pandanaceae (as screw pines)
family onagraceae;a large and widely distributed family of plants of the order myrtales
psocoptera;an order of insects: includes booklice and barklice
family pinaceae;a family of pinaceae
family cymatiidae;tritons
heleodytes;alternative classifications for the cactus wrens
order cestida;ctenophore having short tentacles. one family
chelonia;green turtles
family tulostomataceae;stalked puffballs
marattia;type genus of the marattiaceae: ferns having the sporangia fused together in two rows
chamaeleo;type genus of the chamaeleontidae
rangifer;reindeer or caribou
omomyid group;extinct tiny nocturnal lower primates that fed on fruit and insects. abundant in north america and europe 30 to 50 million years ago. probably gave rise to the tarsiers. some authorities consider them ancestral to anthropoids but others consider them only cousins
phylum echinodermata;radially symmetrical marine invertebrates including e.g. starfish and sea urchins and sea cucumbers
genus andropogon;tall annual or perennial grasses with spikelike racemes. warm regions
ancylostomatidae;hookworms
genus desmanthus;genus of american herbs or shrubs with sensitive pinnate leaves and small whitish flowers
thylacinus;tasmanian wolf
anobiidae;deathwatch beetles
genus chateura;a genus of apodidae
morchella;genus of edible fungi: morel
apterygidae;coextensive with the order apterygiformes
heterosomata;flatfishes: halibut. sole. flounder. plaice. turbot. tonguefishes
genus gavialis;type genus of the gavialidae
genus pyrularia;small genus of chiefly asiatic parasitic shrubs
parathelypteris;terrestrial ferns of warm and tropical asia and north america
family gerridae;mojarras
genus ilex;a large genus of dicotyledonous trees and shrubs of the family aquifoliaceae that have small flowers and berries (including hollies)
family helvellaceae;family of false morels or lorchels. some are edible and some are poisonous
family alcidae;web-footed diving seabirds of northern seas: auks. puffins. guillemots. murres. etc.
siphonophora;marine colonial hydrozoans
trombidiidae;mites
order araneae;spiders
kingdom monera;prokaryotic bacteria and blue-green algae and various primitive pathogens. because of lack of consensus on how to divide the organisms into phyla informal names are used for the major divisions
zygnemales;pond scums. desmids
pica;magpies
genus dama;fallow deer
family palinuridae;spiny lobsters
genus loxodonta;a genus of elephantidae
pycnanthemum;american mountain mint
genus penelope;a genus of guans (turkey-like arboreal birds valued as game and food birds)
acer palmatum;ornamental shrub or small tree of japan and korea with deeply incised leaves. cultivated in many varieties
genus clinopodium;wild basil
suborder megaloptera;in some classifications considered a separate order: alderflies. dobsonflies. snake flies
reticulitermes;includes species highly destructive to structures and living trees
genus parnassia;genus of bog herbs of arctic and northern temperate regions
order marchantiales;liverworts with gametophyte differentiated internally
iliamna;small genus of perennial herbs or subshrubs. some often placed in other genera
parochetus;1 species: shamrock pea
suborder blattaria;cockroaches. in some classifications considered an order
genus crescentia;a genus of tropical american trees of the family bignoniaceae. has a short trunk and crooked limbs and drooping branches
family sphaeriaceae;parasitic fungi having globose and sometimes necked or beaked perithecia
sugar maple;maple of eastern and central north america having 3- to 5-lobed leaves and hard close-grained wood much used for cabinet work especially the curly-grained form. sap is chief source of maple syrup and maple sugar. many subspecies
family campanulaceae;in some classifications includes lobeliaciae
cucurbit;any plant of the family cucurbitaceae
order mycoplasmatales;coextensive with the family mycoplasmatacaea
burmannia;type genus of the burmanniaceae. slender herbs of warm regions with leaves resembling scales and flowers with a 3-angled or 3-winged perianth
chalcidae;an arthropod family including: chalcidflies
lophophorus;monals
trogium;a genus of psocidae
macronectes;giant petrels
eriodictyon;small genus of evergreen shrubs of southwestern united states and mexico
genus abelia;chiefly east asian shrubs
genus arctium;burdock
sertularia;sessile hydroid that forms feathery colonies
raphanus;radish
genus gerea;small genus of hairy herbs with yellow flowers
hydrangea family;sometimes included in the family saxifragaceae
limax;a genus of limacidae
lindheimera;1 species: texas star
antigonia;a genus of fish in the family caproidae
salviniaceae;water ferns
polypodium;a genus of ferns belonging to the family polypodiaceae and having rounded naked sori
order hymenoptera;an order of insects including: bees. wasps. ants. ichneumons. sawflies. gall wasps. etc.
family pandionidae;ospreys
genus pedilanthus;tropical american succulent shrubs
loganiaceae;a dicotyledonous family of plants of order gentianales
family lepismatidae;firebrats
echium;a genus of bristly herbs and shrubs of the family boraginaceae
family megachilidae;leaf-cutting and mason bees
mammal family;a family of mammals
thalassoma;a genus of labridae
family orectolobidae;nurse sharks and carpet sharks
genus quercus;oaks
oreortyx;mountain quail of western united states
genus encelia;genus of shrubs of southwestern united states and mexico: brittlebush
ginglymostoma;nurse sharks
perca;type genus of the percidae
order charales;small order of macroscopic fresh and brackish water algae with a distinct axis: stoneworts
subfamily hydromyinae;water rats of australia and new guinea
asphodelaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae
genus cursorius;coursers
callionymidae;dragonets
genus griselinia;evergreen shrubs of new zealand and south america
schizaeaceae;small family of mainly tropical ferns
zalophus;sea lions
genus mitella;genus of low slender herbs of north america and northeastern asia having flowers with trifid or pinnatifid petals
genus mellivora;ratels
family stizidae;cicada killers
lucilia;greenbottle flies
genus connochaetes;african antelopes: gnus
mycelia sterilia;order of imperfect fungi having no known spore stage
testudo;type genus of the testudinidae
genus salpiglossis;small genus of herbs of the southern andes having large showy flowers
hippopotamidae;hippopotami
family eimeriidae;a family of protoctista in the order coccidia
order papaverales;an order of dicotyledonous plants
genus amaryllis;type genus of the amaryllidaceae. bulbous flowering plants of southern africa
musales;tropical plants
genus platichthys;a genus of pleuronectidae
progne;a genus of hirundinidae
pinopsida;most conifers: in some systems classified as a class (pinopsida) and in others as a subdivision (pinophytina). used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
family dicamptodontidae;large and small highly aquatic salamanders
family loasaceae;family of bristly hairy sometimes climbing plants. america and africa and southern arabia
family fistulinaceae;a family of fungi closely related to the family polyporaceae except that the tubes on the undersurface of the cap are separate from each other
genus rivina;small genus of erect perennial shrubby herbs. tropical and subtropical america
corydalus;type genus of the corydalidae
hygrophorus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family hygrophoraceae
family stichaeidae;pricklebacks
taxaceae;sometimes classified as member of order taxales
genus truncocolumella;a genus of fungi belonging to the family rhizopogonaceae
buckthorn family;trees and shrubs usually thorny bearing drupaceous fruit many having medicinal value
apiaceae;plants having flowers in umbels: parsley. carrot. anise. caraway. celery. dill
genus albizia;large genus of unarmed trees and shrubs of old world tropics
bitis;a genus of viperidae
gazella;typical gazelles
nephropsidae;in some classifications coextensive with the homaridae
genus sus;type genus of the suidae
colutea;small genus of eurasian shrubs with yellow flowers and bladdery pods
anoectochilus;genus of delicate asiatic orchids
thermopsis;genus of american and asiatic showy rhizomatous herbs: bush peas
alaudidae;larks
genus desmodus;type genus of the desmodontidae: vampire bats
peneus;type genus of the family peneidae
marmota;marmots
caudata;salamanders. newts. congo snakes
class cyanophyceae;photosynthetic bacteria found in fresh and salt water, having chlorophyll a and phycobilins. once thought to be algae: blue-green algae
genus muscivora;a genus of tyrannidae
genus typha;reed maces. cattails
class ascidiaceae;sometimes classified as an order: sea_squirts
colinus;new world quail: the bobwhites
genus adelges;type genus of the adelgidae: plant lice
family pythiaceae;fungi having sporangia usually borne successively and singly at the tips of branching sporangiophores
genus cycas;type genus of cycadaceae: genus of widely distributed old world evergreen tropical trees having pinnate leaves and columnar stems covered with persistent bases of old leaves
genus tinea;type genus of the tineidae: clothes moths
genus loxostege;garden webworms
cercosporella;form genus of imperfect fungi lacking pigment in the spores and conidiophores
genus ligustrum;genus of old world shrubs: privet
genus malus;apple trees. found throughout temperate zones of the northern hemisphere
fern genus;genera of ferns and fern allies
family taccaceae;small family of tropical herbs
genus eumops;mastiff bats
family platanistidae;river dolphins
genus podilymbus;a genus of podicipedidae
genus crassostrea;virginia oysters
family phyllocladaceae;a family of phyllocladaceae
genus rubia;type genus of the rubiaceae. old world herbs and subshrubs grown for their medicinal properties and for dye substances extracted from their roots
genus menziesia;deciduous shrubs of north america and eastern asia
muscardinus;a genus of gliridae
polymastigina;small usually parasitic flagellates
family lobotidae;tripletails
terebellidae;marine burrowing or tube-forming polychete worms usually having long thick bodies
sphaerobolaceae;monotypic family of fungi in which the more or less spherical gleba is forcibly ejected at maturity
ectoprocta;coextensive with or a subphylum of bryozoa
asperula;woodruff
genus quamassia;genus of scapose herbs of north and south america having large edible bulbs
pholidae;a family of fish of suborder blennioidea
nephelium;a genus of dicotyledonous trees of the family sapindaceae that are native to asia and australia
synagrops;a genus of serranidae
genus tillandsia;large genus of epiphytic or terrestrial sparse-rooting tropical plants usually forming dense clumps or pendant masses
genus vibrio;a genus of bacteria
family apodidae;swifts. in former classifications included in the order coraciiformes
potorous;potoroos
family boraginaceae;a widely distributed family of plants distinguished by circinate flowers and nutlike fruit
genus pleurothallis;large genus of epiphytic or lithophytic orchids of tropical america
rheidae;a family of birds coextensive with the order rheiformes
genus ammodytes;type genus of the ammodytidae
papaya family;trees native to tropical america and africa with milky juice and large palmately lobed leaves
periophthalmus;a genus of gobiidae
ammodytidae;sand lances
genus aster;large genus of herbs widely cultivated for their daisylike flowers
melampodium;herbs and subshrubs of warm north america
crax;type genus of the cracidae: curassows
macrozoarces;a genus of zoarcidae
genus cosmos;genus of tropical american plants cultivated for their colorful flowers
rhizopogonaceae;a family of fungi of order hymenogastrales having round subterranean sporophores
genus chelone;herbaceous perennials: shellflower
family laridae;gull family: gulls and terns
haemulidae;grunts
eleotridae;sleepers
genus conferva;type genus of tribonemaceae
genus fouquieria;resinous succulent trees or shrubs of desert and semi-desert regions of southwestern united states that are leafless most of the year
genus dictamnus;a dicotyledonous genus of the family rutaceae
genus tadarida;freetail bats
genus tetrapturus;a genus of istiophoridae
drosophilidae;fruit flies
genus spartina;grass of freshwater swamps and salt marshes of europe, africa, america, and south atlantic islands
belostomatidae;water bugs
anemonella;1 species: rue anemone
stomatopoda;mantis shrimps
family cyperaceae;bulrush. chufa. cotton grass. papyrus. umbrella plant
flax family;a widely distributed family of plants
genus anthurium;large genus of often epiphytic evergreen tropical american plants often cultivated as houseplants
ajuga;bugle
class phasmidia;one of two subgroups of nematoda used in some classification systems
tylenchus;type genus of the family tylenchidae
rajidae;bottom-dwelling tropical rays: skates
genus cypraea;type genus of the family cypraeidae: the typical cowries
trapaceae;family comprising solely the genus trapa. in some classifications treated as a subfamily or tribe of the family_onagraceae
genus linnaea;1 species: twinflower
family trombidiidae;mites
gulo;a genus of mustelidae
genus equisetum;horsetails. coextensive with the family equisetaceae
periploca;genus of woody vines of warm regions of the old world
family cunoniaceae;trees or shrubs or climbers. mostly southern hemisphere
anhingidae;snakebirds
family phytolaccaceae;chiefly tropical herbaceous plants (including shrubs and trees) with racemose flowers: genera phytolacca. agdestis. ercilla. rivina. trichostigma
genus haematobia;european genus of bloodsucking flies
dipsosaurus;desert iguanas
genus carica;type genus of the caricaceae. tropical american trees: papayas
genus mola;type genus of the molidae
genus merlangus;whitings
genus romneya;1 species: matilija poppy
saponaria;mostly perennial old world herbs
genus bonasa;ruffed grouse
family anhimidae;screamers
scomber;type genus of the scombridae
spiderwort family;large widely distributed family of chiefly perennial herbs or climbers: spiderworts
genus megaderma;type genus of the megadermatidae
procavia;type genus of the procaviidae
genus lesquerella;genus of low-growing hairy herbs: bladderpods
ptilonorhynchidae;bowerbirds
family rickettsiaceae;microorganism resembling bacteria inhabiting arthropod tissues but capable of causing disease in vertebrates
genus daphne;usually evergreen eurasian shrubs
corvidae;crow. raven. rook. jackdaw. chough. magpie. jay
genus viburnum;deciduous or evergreen shrubs or small trees: arrow-wood. wayfaring tree
cucurbita;type genus of the cucurbitaceae
amberboa;herbs of mediterranean to central asia cultivated for their flowers
chaetodontidae;butterfly fishes
genus medinilla;tropical old world ornamental evergreen shrubs having fleshy leaves and large panicles of white pink flowers
pterocarya;asiatic nut trees: wingnuts
family monocanthidae;filefishes
genus santolina;genus of mediterranean subshrubs with rayless flower heads
genus coeloglossum;terrestrial orchids of cooler parts of north america and europe: satyr orchid
cycloloma;a caryophyllaceous genus of the family chenopodiaceae
genus pitta;type genus of the pittidae. a large genus of birds of southern asia and australia and adjacent islands
oligoporus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family polyporaceae
genus epimedium;herbaceous perennials of mediterranean to india and eastern asia
genus bombyx;type genus of the bombycidae: chinese silkworm moth
gymnosporangium;genus of fungi that produce galls on cedars and other conifers of genera juniperus and libocedrus and causes rust spots on apples and pears and other plants of family rosaceae
superorder labyrinthodonta;extinct amphibians typically resembling heavy-bodied salamanders or crocodiles and having a solid flattened skull and conical teeth. devonian through triassic
cordylidae;small family of spiny ovoviviparous african lizards
green dinosaur;a living fossil or so-called 'green dinosaur': genus or subfamily of primitive nut-bearing trees thought to have died out 50 million years ago. a single specimen found in 1994 on mount bartle frere in eastern australia. not yet officially named
genus chaenomeles;flowering quince
family plasmodiidae;malaria parasites
echidnophaga;a genus of siphonaptera
tuberaceae;family of fungi whose ascocarps resemble tubers and vary in size from that of an acorn to that of a large apple
bursera;type genus of burseraceae. tropical and subtropical american shrubs and trees some yielding timber and gum elemi
genus anagyris;very small genus of shrubs of southern europe having backward curving seed pods
lycopersicum;tomatoes
malacanthidae;short-headed marine fishes. often brightly colored
genus onopordon;a genus of eurasian herbs of the family compositae with prickly foliage and large purplish flowers
genus ensis;razor clams
acer saccharum;maple of eastern and central north america having 3- to 5-lobed leaves and hard close-grained wood much used for cabinet work especially the curly-grained form. sap is chief source of maple syrup and maple sugar. many subspecies
euglenophyceae;coextensive with the division euglenophyta
genus fragaria;strawberries
subfamily smilacaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
order branchiura;copepods with suctorial mouthparts. parasitic on fishes
genus fremontia;flannelbush
family lycosidae;wolf spiders
septobasidiaceae;a family of fungi belonging to the subdivision basidiomycota
genus perca;type genus of the percidae
cichlidae;cichlids
anthidium;potter bees
elaphurus;a genus of cervidae
genus pertusaria;crustose lichens that are a source of the dye archil and of litmus
northern dune tansy;lightly hairy rhizomatous perennial having aromatic feathery leaves and stems bearing open clusters of small buttonlike yellow flowers. sand dunes of pacific coast of north america
genus vangueria;tropical african and asiatic trees and shrubs having one-seeded fruit
pseudacris;chorus frogs
genus cuscuta;genus of twining leafless parasitic herbs lacking chlorophyll: dodder
scomberesocidae;only sauries
family cariamidae;cranelike south american wading birds
genus grampus;grampus
veneridae;hard-shell clams
hesperis;biennial or perennial erect herbs having nocturnally fragrant flowers
laridae;gull family: gulls and terns
phoca;type genus of the phocidae: earless seals
hamamelis;deciduous shrubs or small trees: witch hazel
cryptogrammataceae;one of a number of families into which the family polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems
genus pterocles;type genus of the pteroclididae
theobroma;cacao plants
borage family;a widely distributed family of plants distinguished by circinate flowers and nutlike fruit
order raptores;term used in former classifications. erroneously grouped together birds of the orders falconiformes and strigiformes
cystophora;hooded seals
custard apple family;chiefly tropical trees or shrubs
genus grison;a genus of mustelidae
coccidae;scale insects
genus olea;evergreen trees and shrubs having oily one-seeded fruits
chrysobalanus;coco plums
genus tylenchus;type genus of the family tylenchidae
saccharomycetaceae;family of fungi comprising the typical yeasts: reproduce by budding and ferment carbohydrates
family triakidae;small smooth-skinned sharks lacking spines on dorsal fins
psilophytaceae;paleozoic plants
genus terebella;type genus of terebellidae. tube-forming marine polychete worms with many filamentous tentacles
titanosauridae;herbivorous dinosaurs of the cretaceous
genus hippoglossus;halibuts
genus daviesia;genus of australasian shrubs and subshrubs having small yellow or purple flowers followed by short triangular pods
peireskia;genus of tropical american shrubby trees and woody climbers having slender branches with broad flat leaves and large panicles of flowers
order euphausiacea;small commonly luminescent crustaceans. important element of marine plankton: krill
erysiphaceae;family of fungi parasitic mostly on leaves. includes powdery mildews
family pelecanoididae;diving petrels
genus neofiber;round-tailed muskrat
taricha;pacific newts
subfamily melinae;subdivision not used in some classifications: badgers
cracticus;type genus of the cracticidae: australian butcherbirds
rubiales;an order of dicotyledonous plants of the subclass asteridae. have opposite leaves and an inferior compound ovary
lagothrix;woolly monkeys
xenicidae;alternative names for the family comprising the new zealand wrens
chytridiales;simple aquatic fungi mostly saprophytic but some parasitic on higher plants or animals or fresh water fungi. sometimes placed in class oomycetes
genus philaenus;a genus of cercopidae
phthorimaea;potato moths
genus scopolia;genus of european perennial herbs yielding medicinal alkaloids
genus pleuronectes;type genus of the pleuronectidae
araliaceae;mostly tropical trees and shrubs and lianas: ginseng. hedera
lyrurus;black grouse
balsaminaceae;distinguished from the family geraniaceae by the irregular flowers
family martyniaceae;in most classifications not considered a separate family but included in the pedaliaceae
genus arenga;a genus of tropical asian and malaysian palm trees
leycesteria;small species of suckering shrubs of western himalayas to china
genus ruscus;a genus of european evergreen shrubs. sometimes placed in family asparagaceae
genus cycloloma;a caryophyllaceous genus of the family chenopodiaceae
xenarthra;armadillos. american anteaters. sloths
genus buceros;type genus of the family bucerotidae
nyctimene;east indian fruit bats
genus eschrichtius;type and sole genus of the eschrichtiidae
genus paris;sometimes placed in subfamily trilliaceae
genus veratrum;a genus of coarse poisonous perennial herbs. sometimes placed in subfamily melanthiaceae
dinornis;type genus of the dinornithidae: large moas
genus aethusa;fool's parsley
aulostomus;type genus of the aulostomidae
genus balaenoptera;type genus of the balaenopteridae
elanus;a genus of small kites of both old and new worlds
genus thermobia;a genus of lepismatidae
family amphioxidae;lancelets
otis;type genus of the otididae: european bustard
sinapis;small genus of old world herbs usually included in genus brassica
genus phellodendron;small genus of aromatic deciduous trees of east asia often having thick corky bark
family dermestidae;carpet beetles
family tetraodontidae;puffers
cochlearia;a genus of the family cruciferae
genus astragalus;large genus of annual or perennial herbs or shrubs of north temperate regions. largest genus in the family leguminosae
scorpaenoidea;mail-cheeked fishes: scorpionfishes. gurnards
notonectidae;aquatic carnivorous insects
genus digitaria;crab grass. finger grass
chrysophyceae;all the yellow-green algae having flagella of unequal length
marasmius;chiefly small white-spored mushrooms
triplochiton;small genus of tropical african trees with maplelike leaves
family hemiprocnidae;tree swifts
crambe;annual or perennial herbs with large leaves that resemble the leaves of cabbages
genus chorizagrotis;moths whose larvae are army cutworms
lyginopteris;genus of fossil seed ferns of the carboniferous
pondweed family;plants that grow in ponds and slow streams. sometimes includes family_zosteraceae
family loxomataceae;very small family of new zealand ferns
chlorococcales;unicellular green algae that reproduce by spores
genus iva;small genus of american herbs or shrubs. in some classifications placed in a separate family ambrosiaceae
family branchiobdellidae;small annelid worms with the posterior end modified into an adhesive sucker. especially formerly regarded as modified leeches
balaeniceps;type genus of the balaenicipitidae: shoebills
family caryocaraceae;small genus of tropical south american trees
genus collocalia;a genus of apodidae
genus todus;type genus of the todidae
orchestia;type genus of the family orchestiidae
suborder osteostraci;extinct group of armored fishlike vertebrates. taxonomy is not clear
ciliophora;class of protozoa having cilia or hairlike appendages on part or all of the surface during some part of the life cycle
hypericales;a large order of dicotyledonous plants of subclass dilleniidae
pituophis;bull snakes
rhincodon;whale sharks
amsinckia;rough annual herbs of europe and the americas: fiddlenecks
genus pediculus;type genus of pediculidae: true lice infecting humans
bruchidae;seed beetles
genus omphalotus;a genus of mushrooms with a depressed disc in the cap
genus macleaya;east asian perennial herbs: plume poppy
podophyllum;perennial rhizomatous herbs
lutjanidae;snappers
genus centrolobium;a genus of centrolobium
tetraclinis;sandarac tree
aleurites;candlenut
genus trillium;deciduous perennial herbs. sometimes placed in family liliaceae
acrocephalus;a genus of sylviidae
family lampyridae;fireflies
psittaciformes;an order of birds including parrots and amazons and cockatoos and lorikeets and lories and macaws and parakeets
family hydrocharitaceae;simple nearly stemless freshwater aquatic plants. widely distributed
galbulidae;jacamars
xyris;chiefly american marsh plants, having usually yellow flowers
nolina;perennial yuccalike plants of southern united states and mexico
genus katsuwonus;oceanic bonitos. in some classifications placed in its own family katsuwonidae
caeciliidae;coextensive with the order gymnophiona: legless amphibians
pleuronectidae;righteye flounders
genus schizosaccharomyces;type and only genus of schizosaccharomycetaceae. comprises the fission yeasts
galega;small genus of eurasian herbs: goat's rue
parmelia;type genus of the parmeliaceae. a large genus of chiefly alpine foliaceous lichens
family carchariidae;sand sharks. in some classifications coextensive with family carcharhinidae
neotoma;packrats
genus cinclus;type genus of the family cinclidae
plant order;the order of plants
ceratostomataceae;fungi having carbonous perithecia with long necks
blechnum;in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae. terrestrial ferns of cosmopolitan distribution mainly in southern hemisphere: hard ferns
clinopodium;wild basil
genus nyssa;tupelos: deciduous trees of moist habitats especially swamps and beside ponds
genus deinonychus;advanced bipedal carnivorous dinosaur
genus leptodactylus;type genus of the leptodactylidae. in some classifications placed in the family bufonidae
family ceratodontidae;lungfishes having hornlike ridges on the teeth
family argasidae;soft ticks
family phasianidae;pheasants. quails. partridges
paprilus;a genus of stromateidae
tuberales;small order of fungi belonging to the subdivision ascomycota having closed underground ascocarps
meropidae;bee-eaters
family asparagaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae: includes genera asparagus and sometimes ruscus
desert selaginella;prostrate spikemoss. california
class actinozoa;no alternation of generations the medusoid phase being entirely suppressed: sea anemones. corals
genus asphodeline;genus of rhizomatous perennial or biennial herbs with numerous sometimes fragrant flowers in long cylindrical racemes. mediterranean region to caucasus. sometimes placed in family asphodelaceae
genus davallia;old world tropical fern. in some classification systems placed directly in family polypodiaceae
genus dermochelys;type genus of the dermochelyidae: leatherback turtles
notomys;jerboa rats
mysis;type genus of the family mysidae
order ostracodermi;extinct group of armored jawless vertebrates. taxonomy is not clear
genus indigofera;genus of tropical herbs and shrubs having odd-pinnate leaves and spurred flowers in long racemes or spikes
genus notonecta;type genus of the notonectidae: backswimmers
dendrocolaptidae;woodhewers or woodcreepers
genus orontium;1 species of aquatic plant: golden club
helipterum;genus of south african and australian herbs or shrubs grown as everlastings. the various helipterum species are currently in process of being assigned to other genera especially pteropogon and hyalosperma
family strigidae;a family of nocturnal birds of the order strigiformes
brachystegia;small genus of tropical african timber trees having pale golden heartwood uniformly striped with dark brown or black:
genus cephalotus;one species: australian pitcher plant
genus chalcostigma;thornbills
genus sphecius;large solitary wasps: cicada killer
genus lophosoria;1 species: tree fern of central and south america
meles;in some classifications: type genus of the subfamily melinae
genus croton;tropical shrubs and herbs. source of croton oil
sycamore;eurasian maple tree with pale gray bark that peels in flakes like that of a sycamore tree. leaves with five ovate lobes yellow in autumn
genus lactobacillus;type genus of the family lactobacillaceae
family hirudinidae;a family of hirudinea
cotinus;smoke trees
family hadrosauridae;duck-billed dinosaurs. upper cretaceous
genus schomburgkia;genus of tropical american epiphytic orchids with showy racemose flowers
genus selar;big-eyed scad
echinochloa crusgalli;a coarse annual panic grass. a cosmopolitan weed. occasionally used for hay or grazing
order pectinibranchia;large order of gastropods comprising univalve mollusks that have a single gill resembling a comb
genus hydnocarpus;medium to large indo-malayan trees
genus satureia;savory
genus logania;type genus of the loganiaceae. australian and new zealand shrubs sometimes cultivated for their flowers
chloroxylon;deciduous trees of india and sri lanka
genus oryx;african antelopes: oryxes
phyllocladaceae;a family of phyllocladaceae
genus echinochloa;annual or perennial succulent grasses of warm regions
genus punica;coextensive with the family punicaceae
genus narthecium;bog asphodels. sometimes placed in family melanthiaceae
family zoarcidae;eelpouts
pimpinella;anise
subfamily dracenaceae;one of two subfamilies to which some classification systems assign some members of the agavaceae
euplectella;a genus of hyalospongiae
family tachinidae;parasites on other insects
order temnospondyli;formerly a suborder of stegocephalia. large carboniferous and permian amphibians having vertebrae in which some elements remain separate
genus pomoxis;crappies
genus filago;genus of small woolly herbs
family pulicidae;many common fleas attacking humans and domestic animals
family welwitschiaceae;in some classifications included in the gnetaceae
genus patella;type genus of the family patellidae: common european limpets
genus taxus;yews
balanidae;stalkless barnacles
oregon maple;maple of western north america having large 5-lobed leaves orange in autumn
genus doliolum;type genus of the doliolidae
priodontes;solely the giant armadillo
neritidae;neritids
sciadopitys;type and sole genus of sciadoptyaceae. japanese umbrella pines
genus delairea;1 species: german ivy
pleurosorus;small genus comprising terrestrial ferns formerly placed in genera ceterach or grammitis or gymnogramma. chile. spain and morocco. australia and new zealand
ancylidae;freshwater gastropod
lycosa;type genus of the family lycosidae
genus pimenta;allspice tree
genus chunga;a genus of cariamidae
scutigerella;garden centipedes
genus malacosoma;tent caterpillars
order aristolochiales;plants distinguished by tubular petaloid perianth and inferior ovary: aristolochiaceae. rafflesiaceae. hydnoraceae
eriobotrya;asiatic evergreen fruit trees
illicium;anise_trees: evergreen trees with aromatic leaves
leguminosae;a large family of trees, shrubs, vines, and herbs bearing bean pods. divided for convenience into the subfamilies caesalpiniaceae. mimosaceae. papilionaceae
anthyllis;genus of mediterranean herbs and shrubs
cydippea;ctenophores having two long pinnate tentacles
crotophaga;ani
genus fremontodendron;flannelbush
genus boselaphus;indian antelopes: nilgais
genus agastache;giant hyssop. mexican hyssop
genus conepatus;a genus of mustelidae
actinomeris;used in some classification systems for plants now included in genus verbesina
genus rhizopogon;a genus of fungi having subterranean sporophores resembling tubers
actinia;a genus of sea anemone common in rock pools
suborder otides;terrestrial game birds of the old world and australia: bustards
subdivision taxophytina;yews: in some systems classified as a class (taxopsida) and in others as a subdivision (taxophytina) used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
order opiliones;harvestmen
carpinaceae;used in some classification systems for the genera carpinus. ostryopsis. and ostryopsis
genus lolium;darnel. ryegrass
genus dorotheanthus;a caryophyllaceous genus of dorotheanthus
dicksonia;tree ferns of temperate australasia having bipinnatifid or tripinnatifid fronds and usually marginal sori. in some classification systems placed in family cyatheaceae
class dicotyledones;comprising seed plants that produce an embryo with paired cotyledons and net-veined leaves. divided into six (not always well distinguished) subclasses (or superorders): magnoliidae and hamamelidae (considered primitive). caryophyllidae (an early and distinctive offshoot). and three more or less advanced groups: dilleniidae. rosidae. asteridae
ptilonorhynchus;type genus of the ptilonorhynchidae
asio;a genus of european owls
corylus;deciduous monoecious nut-bearing shrubs of small trees: hazel. sometimes placed in the subfamily or family corylaceae
order ulvales;an order of protoctista
phylloxera;type genus of the phylloxeridae: plant lice
convallariaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
family holothuridae;a family of holothuroidea
artamidae;wood swallows
genus cyamus;whale lice
genus euonymus;widely distributed chiefly evergreen shrubs or small trees or vines
family cicadellidae;leafhoppers
genus eucalyptus;tall trees native to the australian region. source of timber and medicinal oils from the aromatic leaves
genus woodwardia;in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae: chain ferns
milvus;a genus including the common european kits
family polemoniaceae;a widely distributed family of chiefly herbaceous plants of the order polemoniales. often have showy flowers
family cercopidae;froghoppers or spittlebugs
order sphaerocarpales;small order sometimes included in the order jungermanniales
ipomoea;morning glory
order liliales;an order of monocotyeldonous plants including amaryllidaceae and liliaceae and iridaceae
genus fringilla;type genus of the fringillidae: chaffinch, brambling
monotropa;leafless fleshy saprophytic plants. in some classifications placed in the family_pyrolaceae
fulgoridae;plant hoppers: lantern flies
genus mammut;extinct type genus of the mammutidae: mastodons
family pteroclididae;sandgrouses
cercopithecidae;old world monkeys: guenon. baboon. colobus monkey. langur. macaque. mandrill. mangabey. patas. proboscis monkey
symphyla;small class of minute arthropods. unimportant except for the garden centipede
treponemataceae;small spirochetes some parasitic or pathogenic
monocot family;family of flowering plants having a single cotyledon (embryonic leaf) in the seed
genus polydactylus;a genus of polynemidae
scleroderma;genus of poisonous fungi having hard-skinned fruiting bodies: false truffles
lorisidae;slow-moving omnivorous nocturnal primates of tropical asia. usually tailless
genus cynoscion;sea trout
genus gambusia;mosquitofish
form family;(biology) an artificial taxonomic category for organisms of which the true relationships are obscure
zoarces;type genus of the zoarcidae
hirundinidae;swallows and martins
genus proteles;aardwolf
dioscoreaceae;yams
genus bignonia;1 species: cross vine
suborder hyperotreta;hagfishes as distinguished from lampreys
chytridiomycetes;a class of mostly aquatic fungi. saprophytic or parasitic on algae or fungi or plants
order mysidacea;opossum shrimp
austrotaxus;a gymnosperm genus having one species: new caledonian yew
family elaeagnaceae;shrubs or small trees often armed
family epacridaceae;australasian shrubs or small trees
field maple;shrubby eurasian maple often used as a hedge
rhizophoraceae;trees and shrubs that usually form dense jungles along tropical seacoasts
family dennstaedtiaceae;one of a number of families into which polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems. includes genera blotiella. dennstaedtia. histiopteris. hypolepis. leptolepia. lindsaea. lonchitis. microlepia. odontosoria. oenotrichia. paesia. pteridium. saccoloma. sphenomeris
damaliscus;african antelopes: sassabies
terrapene;box turtles
family hypodermatidae;warble flies
genus aepyornis;type genus of the aepyornidae: elephant birds
alliaria;a genus of herbs of the family cruciferae. have broad leaves and whit flowers and long siliques
genus bletilla;small genus of chiefly east asiatic hardy terrestrial orchids similar to genus bletia
malaxis;large genus of largely terrestrial orchids with one or a few plicate leaves and slender spikes or tiny mostly green flowers. cosmopolitan
genus aspidophoroides;alligatorfishes
family spirochaetaceae;large coarsely spiral bacteria. free-living in fresh or salt water or commensal in bodies of oysters
genus polystichum;small to medium-sized terrestrial ferns especially holly ferns. in some classification systems placed in polypodiaceae
subclass archaeornithes;primitive reptile-like fossil birds of the jurassic or early cretaceous
genus antedon;a genus of echinoderms of the family antedonidae. formerly called genus comatula
genus fuchsia;large genus of decorative tropical shrubs with pendulous tetramerous flowers
genus dionaea;a genus of the family droseraceae
order caprimulgiformes;goatsuckers. frogmouths. oilbirds
indian mongoose;keen-sighted viverrine of southern asia about the size of a ferret. often domesticated
mucorales;an order of mostly saprophytic fungi
genus dillenia;east indian and australian shrubs and trees having panicles of large white or yellow flowers
rapateaceae;south american herbs somewhat resembling members of the juncaceae
resurrection plant;densely tufted fern ally of southwestern united states to peru. curls up in a tight ball when dry and expands and grows under moist conditions
animal order;the order of animals
family tapiridae;tapirs and extinct related forms
genus cheilanthes;small evergreen ferns: lipferns. in some classifications placed in family polypodiaceae or adiantaceae
eumops;mastiff bats
argiope;the type genus of argiopidae. small genus of orb-weaving spiders
pastor;only the rose-colored starlings. in some classifications considered a separate genus
orcinus;killer whales
silybum;small genus of east african herbs
carnegiea;l species: saguaro
family parkeriaceae;coextensive with the genus ceratopteris. sometimes included in family polypodiaceae
lizard s tail family;family of perennial aromatic herbs: genera saururus. anemopsis. houttuynia
robinia;deciduous flowering trees and shrubs
genus corylopsis;small genus of deciduous shrubs of temperate regions of asia
ixia;a monocotyledonous genus of the family iridaceae
gentianopsis;genus of fringed gentians. in some classifications included in genus gentiana
genus lotus;annual or perennial herbs or subshrubs
baccharis;shrubs of western hemisphere often having honey-scented flowers followed by silky thistlelike heads of tiny fruits. often used for erosion control
limnocryptes;snipe
genus daboecia;a dicotyledonous genus of the family ericaceae
malvales;malvaceae. bombacaceae. elaeocarpaceae. sterculiaceae. tiliaceae
family lemnaceae;family of small free-floating thalloid plants
suborder limicolae;term used in some classifications for migratory shorebirds. coextensive with the charadrii
order hypocreales;used in some classifications for the family hypocreaceae
genus malcolmia;genus of plants usually found in coastal habitats. mediterranean to afghanistan
philadelphaceae;1 genus. usually included in family hydrangeaceae
genus dolichonyx;bobolinks
genus luscinia;nightingales
genus betula;a genus of trees of the family betulaceae (such as birches)
order xyridales;an order of monocotyledonous herbs
family phylloxeridae;plant lice
mustelus;smooth dogfishes
lagenophera;small genus of herbs of australia and south america having small solitary white or purple flowers similar to true daisies of genus bellis
taurotragus;african antelopes: elands
genus araneus;a genus of orb-weaving spiders including common garden spiders and barn spiders
pteriidae;pearl oysters
group pteridospermae;used in some classification systems: a group of extinct fossil gymnosperms coextensive with the order cycadofilicales
rissa;a genus of laridae
genus diplodocus;a reptile genus of the suborder sauropoda
brachychiton;australian trees (usually with swollen trunks)
genus pereskia;genus of tropical american shrubby trees and woody climbers having slender branches with broad flat leaves and large panicles of flowers
phylum chordata;comprises true vertebrates and animals having a notochord
genus galeorhinus;a genus of carcharhinidae
balaenidae;right whales
ascophyllum;brown algae distinguished by compressed or inflated branchlets along the axis
order isoptera;order of social insects that live in colonies, including: termites. often placed in subclass exopterygota
genus eliomys;lerots
family mayacaceae;a monocotyledonous family of bog plants of order xyridales
aythya;canvasback. redhead. pochard. etc.
genus hypopitys;term used in some classifications for the pinesaps, which are usually included in the genus monotropa
class sporozoa;strictly parasitic protozoans that are usually immobile. includes plasmodia and coccidia and piroplasms and malaria parasites
family geoglossaceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order helotiales
genus mercenaria;a genus of veneridae
cottus;type genus of the cottidae: sculpins
family lythraceae;herbs and shrubs and small trees with pink or purple flowers
subclass infusoria;in some recent classifications, coextensive with the ciliata: minute organisms found in decomposing infusions of organic matter
encelia;genus of shrubs of southwestern united states and mexico: brittlebush
tabernaemontana;evergreen tropical trees and shrubs with milky sap
genus gymnocalycium;large genus of low-growing globular south american cacti with spiny ribs covered with many tubercles
genus scartella;a genus of blenniidae
genus paeonia;peonies: herbaceous or shrubby plants having showy flowers
alligatoridae;alligators. caimans
family edaphosauridae;a family of reptiles of the order pelycosauria
myrsinaceae;family of old world tropical trees and shrubs. some in florida
genus andira;small genus of evergreen trees of tropical america and western africa
furnarius;type genus of the family furnariidae: ovenbirds
subclass euascomycetes;category not used in many classification systems
class xanthophyceae;yellow-green algae
genus microgramma;epiphytic ferns of tropical america and africa
genus coleonyx;banded geckos
genus xenicus;type genus for the xenicidae
peramelidae;bandicoots
neolentinus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family polyporaceae
boltonia;genus of tall leafy perennial herbs of eastern america and eastern asia having flowers that resemble asters
lemuroidea;lemuridae. lorisidae. daubentoniidae. indriidae. used in some classifications instead of prosimii. in others considered a subdivision of prosimii
genus stylophorum;wood poppies
holcus;a genus of old world grasses widely cultivated in america
scincus;type genus of scincidae
class angiospermae;comprising flowering plants that produce seeds enclosed in an ovary. in some systems considered a class (angiospermae) and in others a division (magnoliophyta or anthophyta)
genus hippobosca;type genus of the hippoboscidae
family gasterophilidae;horse botflies
family strophariaceae;sometimes included in family agaricaceae
genus notophthalmus;newts
acer japonicum;leaves deeply incised and bright red in autumn. japan
arales;araceae. lemnaceae
melinae;subdivision not used in some classifications: badgers
sparganium;type and sole genus of sparganiaceae. marsh or aquatic herbs of temperate regions
genus chilopsis;one species: desert willow
family limacidae;slugs
genus drosophila;a genus of drosophilidae
thylogale;pademelons
gesneriaceae;large family of tropical herbs or shrubs or lianas. in some classification systems placed in the order scrophulariales
genus christella;medium to large terrestrial ferns of tropical forests of old world to americas
genus chronoperates;a reptile genus of therapsida
genus hesperis;biennial or perennial erect herbs having nocturnally fragrant flowers
family tecophilaeacea;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
otariidae;eared seals: sea lions and fur seals
tuberculariaceae;large family of mainly saprophytic imperfect fungi
family lomariopsidaceae;small family of usually scandent ferns: genera bolbitis. lomagramma
genus bertholletia;brazil nut
scolytidae;large family of bark-boring or wood-boring short-beaked beetles. very destructive to forest and fruit trees
proteidae;mud puppies
genus raphanus;radish
order amphipoda;small flat-bodied semi-terrestrial crustaceans: whale lice. sand-hoppers. skeleton shrimp
genus physostigma;african woody vines: calabar beans
streptosolen;1 species: marmalade bush
genus musca;type genus of the muscidae: houseflies
dendroctonus;genus of small bark beetles destructive especially to mature conifers
class schizomycetes;a former classification
santolina;genus of mediterranean subshrubs with rayless flower heads
ancistrodon;copperheads
genus graptophyllum;caricature plant
hyphantria;fall webworms
genus yucca;tropical american plants with stiff lancelike leaves and spikes of white blossoms. sometimes considered a genus of amaryllidaceae
xerobates;possible new genus for desert and texas tortoises based on recent research
acroclinium;genus of herbs and shrubs of australia and south africa: everlasting_flower. most species usually placed in genus helipterum
megachiroptera;fruit bats
ochotona;type genus of the ochotonidae
phasmidia;one of two subgroups of nematoda used in some classification systems
percidae;active freshwater fishes. true perches and pike perches
genus saccharum;tall perennial reedlike grass originally of southeastern asia: sugarcane
sphenodon;coextensive with the order rhynchocephalia: tuataras
family nitrobacteriaceae;usually rod-shaped bacteria that oxidize ammonia or nitrites: nitrobacteria
genus clostridium;anaerobic or micro-aerophilic rod-shaped or spindle-shaped saprophytes. nearly cosmopolitan in soil, animal intestines, and dung
cathartidae;condors. turkey buzzards. king vultures
family oleandraceae;one of a number of families into which polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems
ochnaceae;family of tropical evergreen trees and shrubs with thick shining parallel-veined leaves
genus dichondra;genus of chiefly tropical prostrate perennial herbs with creeping stems that root at the nodes
order polemoniales;polemoniaceae. solanaceae. boraginaceae. labiatae. lentibulariaceae. pedaliaceae. in some classifications includes the order scrophulariales
quercus;oaks
gasterophilidae;horse botflies
genus mugil;type genus of the mugilidae: mullets
genus lychnis;genus of plants strongly resembling those of genus silene: catchfly
genus xylocopa;carpenter bees
pinguicula;butterworts: a large genus of almost stemless carnivorous bog plants. europe and america to antarctica
labyrinthodontia;extinct amphibians typically resembling heavy-bodied salamanders or crocodiles and having a solid flattened skull and conical teeth. devonian through triassic
family jungermanniaceae;comprising the leafy members of the order jungermanniales
arctium;burdock
family percophidae;percoid flatheads
genus chamaeleon;type genus of the chamaeleontidae
setophaga;a genus of parulidae
porcellio;old world genus of isopod crustaceans
khaya;african mahogany trees
old witch grass;north american grass with slender brushy panicles. often a weed on cultivated land
genus dimorphotheca;south african herbs or subshrubs with usually yellow flowers
family noctuidae;cutworms. armyworms
genus lutra;in some classifications considered a genus of the subfamily lutrinae
podalyria;genus of south african leguminous shrubs often placed in genus sophora
sepiidae;true cuttlefishes
family rhinolophidae;old world leaf-nosed bats
pteris;large genus of terrestrial ferns of tropics and subtropics. sometimes placed in family polypodiaceae
order hymenogastrales;an order of fungi belonging to the class gasteromycetes. has a distinct basidiocarp with a fleshy or waxy gleba (sometimes placed in subclass homobasidiomycetes)
arum family;anthurium. calla lily. jack-in-the-pulpit. philodendron
family treponemataceae;small spirochetes some parasitic or pathogenic
hordeum;annual to perennial grasses of temperate northern hemisphere and south america: barley
genus priacanthus;type genus of the priacanthidae
superorder labyrinthodontia;extinct amphibians typically resembling heavy-bodied salamanders or crocodiles and having a solid flattened skull and conical teeth. devonian through triassic
family acanthuridae;surgeonfishes
matricaria;chiefly old world strong-smelling weedy herbs. comprises plants sometimes included in other genera: e.g. tanacetum. tripleurospermum
genus celtis;large genus of trees and shrubs with berrylike fruit
haloragidaceae;a family of dicotyledonous plants of the order myrtales
genus camassia;genus of scapose herbs of north and south america having large edible bulbs
calopogon;terrestrial orchids of north america
opisthobranchia;gastropods having the gills when present posterior to the heart and having no operculum: includes sea slugs. sea butterflies. sea hares
chironomidae;midges
cnidosporidia;single-host parasites of lower vertebrates and invertebrates
geum;avens
conyza;common american weed or wildflower
finger millet;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
galliformes;pheasants. turkeys. grouse. partridges. quails. chickens. brush turkeys. curassows. hoatzins
haplopappus;genus of north and south american perennial herbs or shrubs with yellow flowers. in some classifications include species placed in other genera especially hazardia
callisaurus;zebra-tailed lizard
arceuthobium;genus of chiefly american plants parasitic on conifers
order pleuronectiformes;flatfishes: halibut. sole. flounder. plaice. turbot. tonguefishes
aphyllophorales;includes chiefly saprophytic fungi typically with shelflike bodies. sometimes placed in class hymenomycetes or included in agaricales
roccellaceae;a fungus family of division lichenes
genus acalypha;a genus of herbs and shrubs belonging to the family euphorbiaceae
cyanocitta;new world jays
kennedia;genus of australian woody vines having showy red or purplish flowers
family hyaenidae;hyenas
cynocephalus;type genus of the family cynocephalidae
calochortus;large genus of western north american leafy-stemmed bulbous herbs
billion dollar grass;coarse annual grass cultivated in japan and southeastern asia for its edible seeds and for forage. important wildlife food in united states
paralithodes;a genus of lithodidae
order cordaitales;extinct plants having tall arborescent trunks comparable to or more advanced than cycads. known from the pennsylvanian. probably extinct since the mesozoic
arctictis;binturongs
apios;twining perennial north american plants
genus diervilla;small genus of low deciduous shrubs: bush honeysuckles
biological group;"a group of plants or animals"
family hylobatidae;used in some classifications for the lesser apes (gibbons and siamangs). sometimes considered a subfamily of pongidae
genus piscidia;genus of shrubs or small trees having indehiscent pods with black seeds. roots and bark yield fish poisons
giraffa;type genus of the giraffidae
genus kosteletzya;small genus of herbs of southeastern united states and tropical america and africa
dacrymycetaceae;a family of basidiomycetous fungi belonging to the order tremellales having a bifurcate basidium that lacks septa
salmo;type genus of the salmonidae: salmon and trout
class mastigophora;protozoa having flagella
aphyllanthaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted. includes genus aphyllanthes
family mantispidae;mantispids
pipewort family;chiefly tropical aquatic or bog herbs: pipeworts
family orycteropodidae;aardvarks
genus mephitis;in some classifications: type genus of the subfamily mephitinae
genus elephantopus;perennial american herb
genus nasalis;proboscis monkeys
phanerogamae;in former classification systems: one of two major plant divisions, including all seed-bearing plants. superseded by the division spermatophyta
genus neoceratodus;extant australian lungfishes
genus pieris;type genus of the pieridae
genus turritis;closely related to and often included in genus arabis
romneya;1 species: matilija poppy
todea;a genus of delicate ferns belonging to the family osmundaceae
subclass holocephali;chimaeras and extinct forms
family ariidae;sea_catfishes
diphylla;vampire bats
filicales;true (leptosporangiate) ferns
genus anastatica;one species: rose of jericho. resurrection plant
ephippidae;small family comprising the spadefishes
trautvetteria;small genus of perennial herbs: false bugbane
rhus;deciduous or evergreen shrubs and shrubby trees of temperate and subtropical north america, south africa, eastern asia and notheastern australia. usually limited to nonpoisonous sumacs
cynomys;prairie dogs
genus elaeocarpus;type genus of the family elaeocarpaceae
genus lysimachia;loosestrife: a cosmopolitan genus found in damp or swampy terrain having usually yellow flowers. inclined to be invasive
family canellaceae;1 genus: aromatic tropical trees of eastern africa and florida to west indies
genus sterculia;type genus of the sterculiaceae: deciduous or evergreen trees of old and new world tropics and subtropics
coriandrum;small genus of annual mediterranean herbs
family pipidae;tongueless frogs
family agavaceae;chiefly tropical and xerophytic plants: includes dracenaceae (dracaenaceae). comprises plants that in some classifications are divided between the amaryllidaceae and the liliaceae
catharanthus;small genus of erect annual or perennial herbs native to madagascar. widely naturalized in the tropics. formerly included in genus vinca
family convallariaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
genus malacothamnus;genus of shrubs or small trees: chaparral mallow
genus hamamelites;genus of fossil plants having leaves similar to those of the witch hazel
genus synaptomys;bog lemmings
genus phoeniculus;type and only genus of the family phoeniculidae
calostomataceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order tulostomatales
subfamily peristediinae;in some classifications considered a subfamily of triglidae comprising the armored searobins
genus schizopetalon;small genus of south american herbs grown for its flowers
percina;a genus of percidae
genus locusta;a genus of acrididae
cuscuta;genus of twining leafless parasitic herbs lacking chlorophyll: dodder
monotropaceae;used in some classification for saprophytic herbs sometimes included in the family pyrolaceae: genera monotropa and sarcodes
genus erithacus;old world thrushes
zoomastigina;in some classifications considered a phylum of the kingdom protista. holozoic or saprozoic flagellates
genus laccopetalum;1 species: giant buttercup
suborder ceratopsia;horned dinosaurs
genus abelmoschus;genus of tropical coarse herbs having large lobed leaves and often yellow flowers
genus scaphosepalum;comprises some tropical american species usually placed in genus masdevallia: diminutive plants with small flowers carried on one scape
chen;wild goose having white adult plumage
genus bombycilla;waxwings
genus pyrrosia;epiphytic or lithophytic or terrestrial ferns of tropical old world
family pertusariaceae;a fungus family of division lichenes
genus phrynosoma;horned lizards
halicoeres;a genus of labridae
silvia;type genus of the sylviidae: warblers
perodicticus;a genus of lorisidae
gymnorhina;in some classifications placed in the family laniidae: australian piping crows
genus agelaius;red-winged blackbirds
madia;genus of sticky herbs with yellow flowers open in morning or evening but closed in bright light
torpediniformes;rays with torpedo-shaped bodies
lepidodendraceae;fossil plants characterized by conspicuous spirally arranged leaf scars on the trunk
genus spinus;in some classifications considered a subgenus of carduelis: siskins and new world goldfinches
genus thunbergia;a genus of herbs or vines of the family acanthaceae
mycetophilidae;fungus gnats
genus sarcocephalus;genus of tropical african trees and shrubs
metroxylon;a genus of malayan pinnate-leaved palm trees that flower and fruit once and then die
genus lagarostrobus;genus of dioecious evergreen trees of new zealand and tasmania. similar to genus dacrydium
egyptian corn;sorghums of dry regions of asia and north africa
genus martynia;in some classifications includes the unicorn plants
genus onychogalea;a genus of macropodidae
family funkaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted. includes genus hosta
spirochaetaceae;large coarsely spiral bacteria. free-living in fresh or salt water or commensal in bodies of oysters
acarina;mites and ticks
antilope;blackbucks
genus gnetum;type genus of the gnetaceae. small trees or shrubs usually with climbing jointed stems and terminal spikes of flowers with orange-red seeds clustered in rough cones
genus rauvolfia;pantropical genus of somewhat poisonous shrubs and small trees
euphorbia;type genus of the euphorbiaceae: very large genus of diverse plants all having milky juice
genus acanthus;bear's breeches
genus vespula;sometimes considered a subgenus of vespa: social wasps
cirripedia;barnacles
mohria;african terrestrial ferns
cryptacanthodes;a genus of stichaeidae
lacertidae;old world lizards
genus otaria;type genus of the otariidae
family santalaceae;chiefly tropical herbs or shrubs or trees bearing nuts or one-seeded fruit
plantaginaceae;cosmopolitan family of small herbs and a few shrubs. most are troublesome weeds
family opisthocomidae;comprising the hoatzins
callirhoe;small genus of north american herbs having usually red or purple flowers
ornithorhynchidae;platypus
genus sphaerocarpos;type genus of sphaerocarpaceae. liverworts with small many-lobed usually orbicular thallus
genus piqueria;small genus of tropical american perennial herbs or subshrubs with white to pale yellow flowers. often included in genus stevia
sanguinaria;1 species: bloodroot
platyhelminthes;flatworms
family ustilaginaceae;a fungus family of loose smuts
family chermidae;jumping plant lice
hypocreaceae;family of fungi having brightly colored fleshy or membranous ascocarps. sometimes placed in its own order hypocreales
superfamily muroidea;essential equal to suborder myomorpha with the dipodidae excluded
quillwort family;quillworts. coextensive with the genus isoetes
rosidae;a group of trees and shrubs and herbs mostly with polypetalous flowers. contains 108 families including rosaceae. crassulaceae. myrtaceae. melastomaceae. euphorbiaceae. umbelliferae
turbatrix;a genus of cephalobidae
heteromyidae;small new world burrowing mouselike rodents with fur-lined cheek pouches and hind limbs and tail adapted to leaping. adapted to desert conditions: pocket mice. kangaroo mice. kangaroo rats
alternanthera;genus of low herbs of tropical america and australia. includes genus telanthera
genus thalarctos;polar bears. in some classifications not a separate genus from ursus
cebuella;pygmy marmosets
alopecurus;annual or perennial grasses including decorative and meadow species as well as notorious agricultural weeds
type species;(biology) the species that best exemplifies the essential characteristics of the genus to which it belongs
cantharellus;a well-known genus of fungus. has funnel-shaped fruiting body. includes the chanterelles
genus mentzelia;genus of bristly herbs or subshrubs of western america lacking stinging hairs
genus erythroxylum;a large genus of south american shrubs and small trees of the family erythroxylaceae
diadophis;a genus of reptiles of the family colubridae including ringneck snakes
genus pipturus;an australian genus of woody plants of the family urticaceae
pristis;type genus of the pristidae
eumycota;true fungi. eukaryotic heterotrophic walled organisms. distinguished from myxomycota (funguslike slime molds): comprises subdivisions mastigomycotina. zygomycotina. ascomycotina. basidiomycotina. deuteromycotina (imperfect fungi)
genus amia;type genus of the amiidae
order gaviiformes;large aquatic birds: loons and some extinct forms
genus phegopteris;beech ferns: genus is variously classified: considered alternative name for genus drypopteris or included in genus thelypteris
genus uvularia;genus of perennial rhizomatous herb of southern and southeastern united states
sarcodes;snow_plant. in some classifications placed in family pyrolaceae
family xenosauridae;monotypic family of mexican lizards
genus dennstaedtia;chiefly terrestrial ferns. in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae
genus gelsemium;evergreen twining shrubs of americas and southeastern asia
order anostraca;small aquatic crustaceans lacking a carapace: fairy shrimps. brine shrimps
genus amauropelta;epiphytic or terrestrial ferns of america and africa and polynesia
chlorophyta;large division of chiefly freshwater eukaryotic algae that possess chlorophyll a and b, store food as starch, and cellulose cell walls. classes chlorophyceae, ulvophyceae, and charophyceae. obviously ancestral to land plants
genus aegypius;a genus of accipitridae
meleagris;type genus of the meleagrididae: wild and domestic turkeys
genus hynerpeton;earliest fossil amphibian ever found. of the devonian. found in pennsylvania
beech family;chiefly monoecious trees and shrubs: beeches. chestnuts. oaks. genera castanea. castanopsis. chrysolepis. fagus. lithocarpus. nothofagus. quercus
uropygi;whip scorpions
trogoniformes;trogons
siphonaptera;fleas
chenopodiales;corresponds approximately to the older group centrospermae
anura;frogs, toads, tree toads
order isospondyli;most primitive teleost fishes. all are soft-finned: salmon. trout. herring. shad. sardines. anchovies. whitefish. smelts. tarpon
phylum arthropoda;jointed-foot invertebrates: arachnids. crustaceans. insects. millipedes. centipedes
class pinopsida;most conifers: in some systems classified as a class (pinopsida) and in others as a subdivision (pinophytina). used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
genus salsola;chiefly old world herbs or shrubs: saltworts
majorana;small genus of herbs usually included in the genus origanum
mastigomycota;fungi in which the spores and gametes are motile. in some systems placed in the phycomycetes group with the zygomycota
genus malaclemys;american terrapins
genus coluber;racers
genus pilea;low-growing tropical perennials grown for their stingless foliage
fungus kingdom;the taxonomic kingdom of lower plants
aptenodytes;large penguins
lycoperdon;genus of fungi whose fruiting body tapers toward a base consisting of spongy mycelium
mandragora;a genus of stemless herbs of the family solanaceae
family diapensiaceae;north temperate low evergreen plants. in some classifications placed in its own order diapensiales
genus lycopodium;type and sole genus of the lycopodiaceae. erect or creeping evergreen plants often used for christmas decorations
family chlamydiaceae;gram-negative parasites in warm-blooded vertebrates
rhyacotriton;olympic salamanders
spartina;grass of freshwater swamps and salt marshes of europe, africa, america, and south atlantic islands
sterculia family;a large family of plants of order malvales
suborder tyranni;new world flycatchers. antbirds. oven birds. woodhewers
genus psophia;type genus of the psophiidae: trumpeters
genus pternohyla;burrowing treefrogs
saintpaulia;east african herb with nodding flowers. widely cultivated
potamogetonaceae;plants that grow in ponds and slow streams. sometimes includes family_zosteraceae
casuarius;type and sole genus of the casuaridae: cassowaries
genus saxe gothea;1 species: prince albert's yew
levisticum;genus of aromatic european herbs with yellow flowers
orchidaceae;enormous cosmopolitan family of perennial terrestrial or epiphytic plants with fleshy tubers or rootstocks and unusual flowers
family manteidae;mantises
family ranunculaceae;a family of ranunculaceae
sorghum halepense;tall perennial grass that spreads by creeping rhizomes and is grown for fodder. naturalized in southern united states where it is a serious pest on cultivated land
mentzelia;genus of bristly herbs or subshrubs of western america lacking stinging hairs
alectoria;lichens having dark brown erect or pendulous much-branched cylindrical thallus
order haplosporidia;an order in the subclass acnidosporidia
tetragoniaceae;succulent herbs or small shrubs mostly of south africa but also new zealand and north america: carpetweeds. fig marigolds
vulpes;foxes
aspis;horned vipers
genus raja;type genus of the family rajidae
family juncaginaceae;a family of monocotyledonous bog herbs of order naiadales
subclass dipnoi;bony fishes of the southern hemisphere that breathe by a modified air bladder as well as gills. sometimes classified as an order of crossopterygii
genus microstrobos;2 species of small evergreen shrubs of australia and tasmania
genus etropus;a genus of bothidae
genus trogon;type genus of the trogonidae
maple;any of numerous trees or shrubs of the genus acer bearing winged seeds in pairs. north temperate zone
trillium family;small family of herbs having flowers with 3 petals and 3 sepals. in some classification systems considered a subfamily of the liliaceae
azadirachta;genus of large important east indian trees: neem trees
vine maple;small maple of northwestern north america having prostrate stems that root freely and form dense thickets
family gekkonidae;geckos
genus maianthemum;sometimes placed in family convallariaceae: false lily of the valley
genus myriophyllum;chiefly monoecious and usually aquatic herbs (as the milfoils)
family adiantaceae;used in some classification systems for some genera of the family polypodiaceae (or pteridaceae)
order discocephali;small order of fishes comprising the remoras
ajaia;a genus of platalea
family phthiriidae;crab lice
order sarraceniales;plants that are variously modified to serve as insect traps: families sarraceniaceae. nepenthaceae. droceraceae
family isuridae;in some classifications another name for the family lamnidae
tuber;type genus of the tuberaceae: fungi whose fruiting bodies are typically truffles
rhodophyceae;coextensive with the rhodophyta: red algae
family rhodymeniaceae;a family of protoctista
genus ancistrodon;copperheads
eriosoma;woolly aphids
sloanea;genus of tropical hardwood timber trees
otus;a genus of strigidae
charadriiformes;large diverse order of aquatic birds found along seacoasts and inland waters: shorebirds and coastal diving birds. most feed on anima life
genus strepsiceros;african antelopes: kudus. bongos. nyalas. bushbucks
genus sedum;large genus of rock plants having thick fleshy leaves
order equisetales;lower tracheophytes in existence since the devonian
capromyidae;coypus
hypoxis;small plants that resemble amaryllis and that grow from a corm and bear flowers on a leafless stalk. sometimes classified as member of the family amaryllidaceae: star grass
genus psophocarpus;species of tropical asian and african climbing herbs
genus bubalus;in some classification systems included in genus bos. water buffaloes
genus melanerpes;a genus of picidae
synchytriaceae;a fungus family of order chytridiales
genus consolida;plants having larkspurlike flowers differing from larkspurs in arrangement of petals. sometimes included in genus delphinium
hydrocharidaceae;simple nearly stemless freshwater aquatic plants. widely distributed
tropaeolum;a tropical american genus of dicotyledonous climbing or diffuse pungent herbs constituting the family tropaeolaceae
chaenopsis;a genus of fish of the family clinidae including pikeblennies
genus hieracium;large genus of perennial hairy herbs of europe to western asia to northwestern africa and north america. few are ornamental. often considered congeneric with pilosella
family thiobacteriaceae;free-living coccoid to rod-shaped bacteria that derive energy from oxidizing sulfur or sulfur compounds
class chytridiomycetes;a class of mostly aquatic fungi. saprophytic or parasitic on algae or fungi or plants
caproidae;boarfishes
stellaria;common chickweed. stitchwort
lindera;aromatic evergreen or deciduous dioecious shrubs or trees of eastern asia and north america
class psilopsida;whisk ferns. comprising the family psilotaceae or psilotatae: vascular plants with no roots, partial if any leaf differentiation, and rudimentary spore sacs
coryphaenidae;large active pelagic percoid fish
strombus;type genus of the family strombidae
callitriche;water starworts
machaeranthera;wildflowers of western north america
genus;(biology) taxonomic group containing one or more species
glyceria;manna grass
genus draco;flying dagons
tricholomataceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order agaricales
genus nepeta;catmint
genus trichys;a genus of hystricidae
genus pritzelago;chamois cress
vaccaria;cow-cockles
sphaeriales;large order of ascomycetous fungi usually having a dark hard perithecia with definite ostioles. in more recent classifications often divided among several orders
genus sideritis;genus of woolly aromatic herbs or subshrubs or shrubs of mediterranean region
family megadermatidae;old world false vampire bats
zygophyllum;usually tropical herbs or shrubs having ill-smelling foliage and flower buds that are used as capers: bean capers
family cracidae;curassows. guans. chachalacas
fuscoboletinus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family boletaceae
family melanthiaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted: includes aletris. narthecium. veratrum
abies;true firs
family chytridiaceae;a family of aquatic fungi of order chytridiales
nageia;small genus of asian evergreen trees having columnar crowns and distinguished by leaves lacking a midrib. eastern asia including india and philippines and new guinea
subdivision coniferophytina;cone-bearing gymnosperms dating from the carboniferous period. most are substantial trees. includes the classes pinopsida (subdivision pinophytina) and ginkgopsida (subdivision ginkgophytina) and taxopsida (subdivision taxophytina) which in turn include the surviving orders coniferales and taxales (yews) and sometimes ginkgoales as well as extinct orders such as cordaitales (of the carboniferous and permian) and volztiales (of the permian-jurassic)
cottidae;sculpins
genus laguncularia;a genus of laguncularia
genus myotis;largest and most widely distributed genus of bats
ardeidae;herons. egrets. night herons. bitterns
genus urtica;a nettle yielding fiber resembling flax
genus fistularia;type genus of the family fistulariidae
eriophorum;cotton grass
genus picrasma;small genus of deciduous trees of tropical america and asia
laburnum;flowering shrubs or trees having bright yellow flowers. all parts of the plant are poisonous
quiscalus;grackles
genus martes;martens
genus ailanthus;small genus of east asian and chinese trees with odd-pinnate leaves and long twisted samaras
eichhornia;water hyacinth. water orchid
falconiformes;chiefly diurnal carnivorous birds having hooked beaks and long talons with opposable hind toe: falcons. hawks. eagles. ospreys. caracaras. vultures
family saturniidae;important and widely distributed family of moths including some of the largest insects known
genus pagophilus;harp seals
subdivision cycadophytina;palmlike gymnosperms: includes the surviving order cycadales and several extinct orders. possibly not a natural group. in some systems considered a class (cycadopsida) and in others a subdivision (cycadophytina or cycadophyta)
genus colaptes;a genus of picidae
protoctist family;any of the families of protoctista
abramis;european fishes
genus campephilus;a genus of picidae
hemitripterus;sea ravens
acipenseridae;sturgeons
isoetaceae;quillworts. coextensive with the genus isoetes
genus monodon;type genus of the monodontidae
genus phyllium;type genus of the phyllidae
entandrophragma;cedar mahogany trees
pseudomonadales;one of two usually recognized orders of true bacteria. gram-negative spiral or spherical or rod-shaped bacteria usually motile by polar flagella. some contain photosynthetic pigments
family hydrochoeridae;capybara
genus loligo;squids
oomycetes;nonphotosynthetic fungi that resemble algae and that reproduce by forming oospores. sometimes classified as protoctists
genus stellaria;common chickweed. stitchwort
genus ameiurus;type genus of the ameiuridae: bullhead catfishes
gymnelis;a genus of zoarcidae
genus scorzonera;genus of narrow-leaved european herbs
sturnus;type genus of the sturnidae: common starlings
genus jatropha;a mainly tropical genus of american plant belonging to the family euphorbiaceae
genus blastocladia;a genus of fungi of the family blastodiaceae
mesembryanthemum;south african annual or biennial plants having flowers that open only in bright sunlight
genus phoenix;a large monocotyledonous genus of pinnate-leaved palms found in asia and africa
tribolium;flour beetles
lithophragma;small genus of perennial herbs of the western north america
prenanthes;genus of north american and asiatic perennial herbs having pinnatisect leaves small heads of drooping yellowish to purple flowers. sometimes includes species often placed in genus nabalus
wire grass;coarse annual grass having fingerlike spikes of flowers. native to old world tropics. a naturalized weed elsewhere
tropaeolaceae;coextensive with the genus tropaeolum
poinciana;small subgenus of ornamental tropical shrubs or trees. not recognized in some classifications
tapirus;type genus of the tapiridae
erigeron;cosmopolitan genus of usually perennial herbs with flowers that resemble asters. leaves occasionally (especially formerly) used medicinally
raoulia;genus of low-growing mat-forming new zealand plants. in some classifications includes species placed in genus haastia
family lentibulariaceae;carnivorous aquatic or bog plants: genera utricularia. pinguicula. genlisea
family batrachoididae;toadfishes. related to anglers and batfishes
pepper family;tropical woody vines and herbaceous plants having aromatic herbage and minute flowers in spikelets
grias;anchovy pear tree
prosopis;genus of tropical or subtropical branching shrubs or trees: mesquite
subularia;small genus of herbs of north temperate regions and mountains of tropical africa
genus koellia;american mountain mint
phylum cnidaria;hydras. polyps. jellyfishes. sea anemones. corals
order scrophulariales;used in some classification systems. often included in the order polemoniales
buchloe;buffalo grass
oligoplites;leatherjackets
anolis;new world chameleons
division euglenophyta;free-swimming flagellate algae
family asteraceae;plants with heads composed of many florets: aster. daisy. dandelion. goldenrod. marigold. lettuces. ragweed. sunflower. thistle. zinnia
subphylum urochorda;tunicates
archiannelida;a class of annelida
geraniaceae;chiefly herbaceous plants
prunella;small genus of perennial mostly eurasian having terminal spikes of small purplish or white flowers
family sphyraenidae;monotypic family of large active fishes of tropical and subtropical waters: barracuda
stizostedion;pikeperches
etropus;a genus of bothidae
genus juncus;type genus of the juncaceae. perennial tufted glabrous marsh plants of temperate regions: rushes
vanellus;eurasian lapwings
genus pachycephala;arboreal insectivorous birds
genus ulex;genus of eurasian spiny shrubs: gorse
hakea;australian shrubs and small trees with evergreen usually spiny leaves and dense clusters of showy flowers
genus vincetoxicum;genus of chiefly tropical american vines having cordate leaves and large purple or greenish cymose flowers. supposedly having powers as an antidote
family glossinidae;flies closely related to the muscidae: tsetse flies
archosauria;a large subclass of diapsid reptiles including: crocodiles. alligators. dinosaurs. pterosaurs. plesiosaurs. ichthyosaurs. thecodonts
hieracium;large genus of perennial hairy herbs of europe to western asia to northwestern africa and north america. few are ornamental. often considered congeneric with pilosella
ophrys;a hardy genus of terrestrial orchids of europe and northern africa and western asia
genus contopus;pewees
momotus;type genus of the momotidae
genus meleagris;type genus of the meleagrididae: wild and domestic turkeys
genus machaeranthera;wildflowers of western north america
genus sloanea;genus of tropical hardwood timber trees
genus onobrychis;genus of old world herbs having pinnate leaves and pink or whites racemose flowers followed by flat unjointed pods
pernis;a common european bird of prey. dull brown with white-streaked underparts
alopex;arctic foxes
genus chironomus;type genus of the chironomidae
cananga;a genus of malayan tree
genus galeocerdo;tiger sharks
genus macrodactylus;a genus of melolonthidae
gempylus;type genus of the gempylidae
diatomophyceae;marine and freshwater eukaryotic algae: diatoms
genus mammea;american and asiatic trees having edible one-seeded fruit
anthocerotaceae;hornworts
amphicarpaea;very small genus of twining vines of north america and asia: hog peanut
rodolia;genus of australian ladybugs
cryptocercus;cockroaches
elaphe;north american rat snakes
genus sundacarpus;1 species
clangula;a genus of ducks
luvaridae;louvars
coniogramme;terrestrial ferns of pacific islands and asia. sometimes placed in family polypodaceae or adiantaceae
primates;an animal order including lemurs and tarsiers and monkeys and apes and human beings
family tingidae;lace bugs
genus tulostoma;type genus of the tulostomaceae
bassariscus;cacomistles
nicandra;sturdy annual of peru
cavia;type genus of the caviidae: guinea pigs
genus burmeisteria;a genus of dasypodidae
trichodontidae;two species of elongate compressed scaleless large-eyed fishes that live in sand or mud
genus myocastor;a genus of capromyidae
hymenophyllaceae;terrestrial (hygrophytic) or epiphytic ferns: filmy ferns
pseudolarix;one species: golden larch
genus macowanites;a stout-stemmed genus of fungus belonging to the family secotiaceae having fruiting bodies that never expand completely
thiobacteriaceae;free-living coccoid to rod-shaped bacteria that derive energy from oxidizing sulfur or sulfur compounds
erodium;geraniums of europe and south america and australia especially mountainous regions
microdesmidae;wormfishes
order tremellales;fungi varying from gelatinous to waxy or even horny in texture. most are saprophytic
acheta;common house and field crickets
cydippidea;ctenophores having two long pinnate tentacles
family notoryctidae;pouched moles
genus tectaria;terrestrial or epilithic ferns of tropical rain forests
sarraceniaceae;insectivorous plants
eleusine indica;coarse annual grass having fingerlike spikes of flowers. native to old world tropics. a naturalized weed elsewhere
family tricholomataceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order agaricales
genus arctotis;herbs and subshrubs: african daisy
aesculus;deciduous trees or some shrubs of north america. southeastern europe. eastern asia
commelinidae;one of four subclasses or superorders of monocotyledones. comprises about 19,000 species in 25 families of mostly terrestrial herbs especially of moist places including: cyperaceae. gramineae. bromeliaceae. and zingiberaceae
family dacrymycetaceae;a family of basidiomycetous fungi belonging to the order tremellales having a bifurcate basidium that lacks septa
genus terrietia;small genus of timber trees of eastern asia, australasia and tropical africa that form large buttresses
pulicaria;genus of temperate old world herbs: fleabane
coniferophytina;cone-bearing gymnosperms dating from the carboniferous period. most are substantial trees. includes the classes pinopsida (subdivision pinophytina) and ginkgopsida (subdivision ginkgophytina) and taxopsida (subdivision taxophytina) which in turn include the surviving orders coniferales and taxales (yews) and sometimes ginkgoales as well as extinct orders such as cordaitales (of the carboniferous and permian) and volztiales (of the permian-jurassic)
pipilo;towhees
family ostreidae;oysters
genus ailuropoda;only the giant panda: in some classifications considered a genus of the separate family ailuropodidae
genus geoglossum;type genus of the geoglossaceae comprising the earthtongues
genus hippopotamus;type genus of the hippopotamidae
dourah;sorghums of dry regions of asia and north africa
thomomys talpoides;grayish to brown gopher of western and central united states
genus albuca;genus of bulbous plants of south africa. sometimes placed in subfamily hyacinthaceae
equisetatae;horsetails and related forms
order coraciiformes;rollers. kingfishers. hornbills. hoopoes. motmots. bee_eaters. todies
hydromys;water rats
family aphyllanthaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted. includes genus aphyllanthes
crocuta;a genus of hyaenidae
genus rodolia;genus of australian ladybugs
family pygopodidae;australian and tasmanian lizards
ploceus;type genus of the ploceidae
liliales;an order of monocotyeldonous plants including amaryllidaceae and liliaceae and iridaceae
genus tradescantia;spiderworts
aerobacter;aerobic bacteria widely distributed in nature
haloragaceae;a family of dicotyledonous plants of the order myrtales
genus alosa;shad
passionflower family;tropical woody tendril-climbing vines
genus macrothelypteris;medium to large terrestrial ferns of tropical asia to polynesia and australia. naturalized in americas
cordyline;asiatic and pacific trees or shrubs. fragments of the trunk will regrow to form whole plants
genus brevoortia;menhaden
cuculidae;includes cuckoo. ani. roadrunner
family dugongidae;a family of mammals of order sirenia including dugongs and steller's sea cow
genus soleirolia;1 species. a dwarf creeping mat-forming evergreen herb
family balaenicipitidae;shoebills
genus dacrymyces;type genus of the dacrymycetaceae: fungi with a bifurcate basidium that lacks septa
family motacillidae;pipits and wagtails
orites;small genus of australian shrubs or trees
blechnaceae;one of a number of families into which the family polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems. includes genera blechnum. doodia. sadleria. stenochlaena. woodwardia
family ambrosiaceae;in some classifications considered a separate family comprising a subgroup of the compositae including the ragweeds
lablab;1 species: hyacinth bean
carrizo;tall north american reed having relative wide leaves and large plumelike panicles. widely distributed in moist areas. used for mats, screens and arrow shafts
genus hyracotherium;extinct horse genus. formerly called genus eohippus
daphne family;family of tough-barked trees and shrubs and herbs especially of australia and tropical africa
family sterculiaceae;a large family of plants of order malvales
vinca;periwinkles: low creeping evergreen perennials
flindersia;small genus of australian timber trees
genus lonchocarpus;genus of chiefly tropical american shrubs and trees having pinnate leaves and red or white flowers
genus pityrogramma;terrestrial tropical ferns having fronds with powdery yellowish or white undersides. sometimes placed in family polypodiaceae or adiantaceae
corallorhiza;genus of leafless root-parasitic orchids having small purplish or yellowish racemose flowers with lobed lips. widely distributed in temperate regions
atherinopsis;a genus of atherinidae
dipteryx;tropical american trees: tonka beans
eschrichtiidae;comprising only the gray whales
microgramma;epiphytic ferns of tropical america and africa
melopsittacus;a genus of psittacidae
actias;luna moths
sarcorhamphus;usually containing only the king vulture
cotingidae;cotingas. umbrella birds
chrysophrys;australian snapper
pterocarpus;genus of tropical trees or climbers having usually broadly winged pods
mysidacea;opossum shrimp
guaiacum;small genus of evergreen resinous trees or shrubs of warm and tropical america
kochia;summer cypress
turnicidae;small old world birds resembling but not related to true quail
meleagrididae;turkeys and some extinct forms
genus fuscoboletinus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family boletaceae
mustela;type genus of the family mustelidae: minks and weasels
order sauropterygia;extinct marine reptiles: plesiosaurs. nothosaurs
desmodontidae;true vampire bats
ichneumonidae;ichneumon flies
order rhoeadales;an order of dicotyledonous plants
leiopelmatidae;primitive new zealand frogs
osmanthus;widely distributed genus of evergreen shrubs or trees of southern united states and middle east and china and japan
order phalangida;harvestmen
garrulus;type genus of the garrulinae: old world jays
coniferopsida;cone-bearing gymnosperms dating from the carboniferous period. most are substantial trees. includes the classes pinopsida (subdivision pinophytina) and ginkgopsida (subdivision ginkgophytina) and taxopsida (subdivision taxophytina) which in turn include the surviving orders coniferales and taxales (yews) and sometimes ginkgoales as well as extinct orders such as cordaitales (of the carboniferous and permian) and volztiales (of the permian-jurassic)
subfamily caesalpinioideae;alternative name in some classification systems for the family caesalpiniaceae
ginkgoales;coextensive with the family ginkgoaceae: plants that first appeared in the permian and now represented by a single surviving species. often included in coniferales
pontederiaceae;aquatic or bog plants
genus ascophyllum;brown algae distinguished by compressed or inflated branchlets along the axis
family psocidae;a family of small soft-bodied insects that feed on decaying vegetation. related to booklice
genus ploceus;type genus of the ploceidae
lentibulariaceae;carnivorous aquatic or bog plants: genera utricularia. pinguicula. genlisea
genus lobipes;a genus of phalaropidae
onychophora;enigmatic small elongated wormlike terrestrial invertebrates of damp dark habitats in warm regions. distinct from the phylum annelida. resemble slugs with legs and are sometimes described as the missing link between arthropods and annelids
dwarf lycopod;tufted spikemoss forming loose spreading mats. eastern north america
platanus;genus of large monoecious mostly deciduous trees: london plane. sycamore
genus euplectella;a genus of hyalospongiae
crowfoot family;a family of ranunculaceae
order procellariiformes;petrels. albatrosses. shearwaters. diving petrels
xyridales;an order of monocotyledonous herbs
piptadenia;tropical american trees and shrubs. often placed in other genera
oxandra;genus of tropical trees
cardiidae;somewhat heart-shaped sand-burrowing bivalve mollusks
genus lamium;genus of old world herbs: dead nettles. henbits
family caviidae;a family of hystricomorpha
manis;type genus of the manidae
strongylodon;genus of polynesian or southeastern asian shrubs or vines
cercidium;spiny shrubs or small trees sometimes placed in genus parkinsonia: paloverde
order mucorales;an order of mostly saprophytic fungi
lycopsida;club mosses and related forms: includes lycopodiales. isoetales. selaginellales. and extinct lepidodendrales. sometimes considered a subdivision of tracheophyta
genus erodium;geraniums of europe and south america and australia especially mountainous regions
centropomidae;a family of fish or the order perciformes including robolos
pomatomus;type genus of the pomatomidae
bombus;bumblebees
lepiotaceae;a family of fungi having free gills and a cap that is cleanly separable from the stalk
terrietia;small genus of timber trees of eastern asia, australasia and tropical africa that form large buttresses
kogia;pygmy sperm whales
genus cercopithecus;type genus of the cercopithecidae: guenons
trombiculidae;mites
cetorhinus;comprising only the basking sharks. in some classifications considered the type genus of a separate family cetorhinidae
psaltriparus;a genus of paridae
genus lonas;1 species: yellow ageratum
family gliridae;dormice and other old world forms
genus pygoscelis;a genus of spheniscidae
troglodytes;type genus of the troglodytidae
sanvitalia;small genus of tropical american annual herbs: creeping zinnia
family morchellaceae;a family of edible fungi including the true morels
genus thylogale;pademelons
genus irvingia;wild mango
petasites;genus of rhizomatous herbs of north temperate regions: butterbur. sweet coltsfoot
family teiidae;whiptails. etc.
anthericum;genus of old world (mainly african) perennial herbs. sometimes placed in family asphodelaceae
genus ictiobus;buffalo fishes
genus phasianus;type genus of the phasianidae: the typical pheasants
genus cathaya;one species. related to pseudotsuga and larix
fortunella;small genus of shrubs native to south china producing small ovoid orangelike fruits: kumquats
clinidae;viviparous blennies of temperate and tropical seas
family myxobacteriaceae;bacteria living mostly in soils and on dung
virgilia;genus of south african trees having pinnate leaves and rose-purple flowers followed by leathery pods
genus chloroxylon;deciduous trees of india and sri lanka
tolmiea;1 species: pickaback plant
lithocarpus;tanbark oaks
genus gymnopilus;a genus of fungus characterized by the orange color of the spore deposit
genus desmograthus;an amphibian genus of plethodontidae
genus carnegiea;l species: saguaro
family echeneididae;fishes having a sucking disk on the head for clinging to other fishes and to ships
order nudibranchia;comprising numerous marine gastropod mollusks lacking a shell in the adult state and usually having a body like a slug
sophora;cosmopolitan genus of trees and shrubs having odd-pinnate leaves and showy flowers. some species placed in genus podalyria
palinurus;type genus of the family palinuridae
guevina;1 species: chilean nut
genus shortia;evergreen perennial herbs of north america and eastern asia: oconee bells
porphyrio;old world purple gallinules
genus iris;large genus of perennials that develop from bulbs or rhizomes
genus prociphilus;a genus of aphididae
means grass;tall perennial grass that spreads by creeping rhizomes and is grown for fodder. naturalized in southern united states where it is a serious pest on cultivated land
genus scophthalmus;a genus of bothidae
genus formicarius;type genus of the formicariidae
genus dactylorhiza;genus of terrestrial orchids of europe and asia and north africa
genus cercidium;spiny shrubs or small trees sometimes placed in genus parkinsonia: paloverde
order myxobacterales;an order of higher bacteria
family danaidae;small family of usually tropical butterflies: monarch butterflies
genus giraffa;type genus of the giraffidae
saltwort family;family coextensive with genus batis: saltworts
casuarinales;order of chiefly australian trees and shrubs comprising the casuarinas. 1 family: casuarinaceae
leptinotarsa;colorado potato beetles
acorus;sweet flags. sometimes placed in subfamily acoraceae
subdivision ginkgophytina;ginkgos: in some systems classified as a class (ginkgopsida) and in others as a subdivision (ginkgophytina or ginkgophyta). used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
theraphosidae;large tropical spiders. tarantulas
genus calliphora;type genus of the calliphoridae: blowflies
genus oenanthe;poisonous herbs: water dropworts
genus coccyzus;a genus of cuculidae
ariidae;sea_catfishes
musophagidae;touracos
genus syngonium;epiphytic or terrestrial climbing shrubs of central and south america. used as ornamental houseplants for their velvety foliage
genus rhea;type genus of the rheidae. large tall flightless south american birds similar to but smaller than ostriches
anomiidae;saddle oysters
stanleya;prince's plume
chenopodium;goosefoot. pigweed
pinctada;pearl oysters
schizachyrium;overlaps the genus andropogon
lauraceae;a family of lauraceae
odocoileus;north american deer
genus circus;a genus of haws comprising the harriers
genus nigella;erect annual eurasian herbs
adenium;1 species: succulent shrub or tree of tropical africa and arabia
salmonidae;salmon and trout
genus gerres;type genus of the gerreidae
hypopitys;term used in some classifications for the pinesaps, which are usually included in the genus monotropa
genus clianthus;genus of semiprostrate australasian shrubs or vines
family potamogetonaceae;plants that grow in ponds and slow streams. sometimes includes family_zosteraceae
family pseudococcidae;scale-like insects: mealybugs
genus pseudechis;venomous australian blacksnakes
cimex;type genus of the cimicidae: bedbugs
family orchestiidae;beach fleas
order belemnoidea;order of extinct dibranchiate cephalopods related to the surviving spirulas
genus anigozanthus;genus of monocotyledonous plants with curious woolly flowers on sturdy stems above a fan of sword-shaped leaves. includes kangaroo's paw and cat's paw and australian sword lily. sometimes placed in family amaryllidaceae
genus beaumontia;small genus of evergreen woody vines. east india and asia
genus magnolia;shrubs or trees of north america or asia having entire evergreen or deciduous leaves. among most ancient of angiosperm genera
family brotulidae;chiefly deep-sea fishes related to the ophidiidae
turnix;type genus of the turnicidae: button quail
genus argiope;the type genus of argiopidae. small genus of orb-weaving spiders
genus drosera;the type genus of droseraceae including many low bog-inhabiting insectivorous plants
gomphotherium;type genus of the gomphotheriidae
genus liparis;genus of terrestrial and epiphytic orchids. pantropical to temperate
family mniaceae;family of erect mosses with club-shaped paraphyses and the hexagonal cells of the upper leaf surface. sometimes treated as a subfamily of bryaceae
myocastor;a genus of capromyidae
genus leptoptilus;adjutant birds and marabous
genus schizanthus;chilean herbs with orchidlike flowers
genus potentilla;chiefly perennial northern hemisphere herbs and shrubs: cinquefoil
erythroxylon;a large genus of south american shrubs and small trees of the family erythroxylaceae
genus teucrium;large widely distributed genus of perennial herbs or shrubs or subshrubs. native to mediterranean region to western asia
genus leycesteria;small species of suckering shrubs of western himalayas to china
genus lophodytes;a genus of merginae
limosa;godwits
genus tympanuchus;prairie chickens
panicum texanum;annual weedy grass used for hay
family sphyrnidae;hammerhead sharks. bonnethead sharks
family unionidae;freshwater mussels found worldwide
genus drynaria;large robust epiphytic ferns of tropical forest and scrub. africa and asia and australia
nasalis;proboscis monkeys
family cuterebridae;new world botflies
recurvirostridae;long-legged shorebirds
subphylum vertebrata;fishes. amphibians. reptiles. birds. mammals
order rhynchocephalia;tuataras. extinct forms from middle triassic
paeonia;peonies: herbaceous or shrubby plants having showy flowers
charales;small order of macroscopic fresh and brackish water algae with a distinct axis: stoneworts
genus pinus;type genus of the pinaceae: large genus of true pines
genus hermissenda;genus of marine sea slugs
genus micromeria;large genus of fragrant chiefly old world herbs
vittaria;tropical epiphytic ferns with straplike fronds
squatina;type genus of the squatinidae: angel sharks
genus coryanthes;small genus of tropical american epiphytic or lithophytic orchids
genus erythrina;genus of attractive tropical shrubs or trees with usually red flowers
ictodosauria;extinct reptiles of the upper triassic
genus polygonatum;sometimes placed in subfamily convallariaceae
genus cleistes;terrestrial orchids of north and south america having slender fibrous roots. allied to genus pogonia
sorghum halapense;tall perennial grass that spreads by creeping rhizomes and is grown for fodder. naturalized in southern united states where it is a serious pest on cultivated land
trichoceros;small genus of small epiphytic or terrestrial orchids of tropical south america
genus neophron;a genus of accipitridae
viscum;type genus of the viscaceae: old world evergreen shrubs parasitic on many trees including oaks but especially apple trees, poplars, aspens and cottonwoods
spalax;type genus of the spalacidae
family palmae;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines usually having a tall columnar trunk bearing a crown of very large leaves. coextensive with the order palmales
family mugilidae;gray mullets
syngnathus;type genus of the family_syngnathidae
genus arilus;a genus of reduviidae
genus naias;sole genus of the family naiadaceae
genus argusianus;argus pheasants
genus pongamia;1 species: indian beech
family diaspididae;armored scales
sciuridae;true squirrels. ground squirrels. marmots. chipmunks. flying squirrels. spermophiles
ceratophyllum;constituting the family ceratophyllaceae: hornworts
genus anthus;pipits
mammutidae;extinct family: mastodons
genus scleroderma;genus of poisonous fungi having hard-skinned fruiting bodies: false truffles
class hydrozoa;coelenterates typically having alternation of generations. hydroid phase is usually colonial giving rise to the medusoid phase by budding: hydras and jellyfishes
genus turbatrix;a genus of cephalobidae
coniferophyta;cone-bearing gymnosperms dating from the carboniferous period. most are substantial trees. includes the classes pinopsida (subdivision pinophytina) and ginkgopsida (subdivision ginkgophytina) and taxopsida (subdivision taxophytina) which in turn include the surviving orders coniferales and taxales (yews) and sometimes ginkgoales as well as extinct orders such as cordaitales (of the carboniferous and permian) and volztiales (of the permian-jurassic)
melogale;a genus of mustelidae
chionanthus;deciduous trees or shrubs: fringe tree
family paguridae;hermit crabs
family calycanthaceae;shrubs or small trees having aromatic bark. the eastern united states and eastern asia
family oniscidae;a family of isopoda
order sapindales;an order od dicotyledonous plants
genus liomys;pocket mice
genus samia;silkworm moths
proboscidea;an order of animals including elephants and mammoths
kennedya;genus of australian woody vines having showy red or purplish flowers
division eubacteria;one-celled monerans having simple cells with rigid walls and (in motile types) flagella
order lechanorales;category used in some classification systems for all lichens that produce apothecia
full moon maple;leaves deeply incised and bright red in autumn. japan
genus cyclosorus;small genus of terrestrial ferns of tropical and subtropical southern hemisphere
genus iridoprocne;a genus of hirundinidae
lophosoriaceae;very small family of tree ferns
sandalwood family;chiefly tropical herbs or shrubs or trees bearing nuts or one-seeded fruit
cistus;small to medium-sized evergreen shrubs of southern europe and north africa
family bignoniaceae;trees or shrubs or woody vines or herbs having gourd-like or capsular fruit. sometimes placed in the order scrophulariales
genus protea;type genus of proteaceae. tropical african shrubs
superclass;(biology) a taxonomic class below a phylum and above a class
genus calanthe;large and widely distributed genus of terrestrial orchids
erithacus;old world thrushes
class lycopsida;club mosses and related forms: includes lycopodiales. isoetales. selaginellales. and extinct lepidodendrales. sometimes considered a subdivision of tracheophyta
genus pulicaria;genus of temperate old world herbs: fleabane
family hypericaceae;used in some classification systems for plants usually included among the guttiferae
family pipridae;manakins
antilocapridae;comprising only the pronghorns
family lepidodendraceae;fossil plants characterized by conspicuous spirally arranged leaf scars on the trunk
genus basiliscus;a reptile genus of iguanidae
genus mus;type genus of the muridae: common house mice. upper incisors have a square-notched tip
suborder heteroptera;true bugs
family amphiumidae;congo snakes
gastrophryne;primarily tropical narrow-mouthed toads
genus dimocarpus;longan
genus phlomis;large genus of old world aromatic herbs or subshrubs or shrubs having often woolly leaves
laminariaceae;large family of marine brown algae including many economically important large kelps chiefly of northern waters
genus brachycome;mostly australian herbs having basal or alternate leaves and loosely corymbose flower heads
lepidothamnus;small usually shrubby conifers
genus argynnis;fritillaries
family celastraceae;trees and shrubs and woody vines usually having bright-colored fruits
genus pellicularia;genus of fungi having the hymenium in the form of a crust. some species formerly placed in the form genus rhizoctinia
type genus;(biology) genus from which the name of a family or subfamily is formed. it is not necessarily the most representative genus by often the largest or best known or earliest described
thysanocarpus;small genus of herbs of upland regions of north american pacific coast
tylenchidae;a family of nematoda
atrichornithidae;scrubbirds
flacourtia family;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs
genus cladrastis;yellowwoods
sceloglaux;a genus of strigidae
genus amsinckia;rough annual herbs of europe and the americas: fiddlenecks
family carabidae;ground beetles
family argentinidae;small marine soft-finned fishes with long silvery bodies. related to salmons and trouts
pointed leaf maple;small shrubby japanese plant with leaves having 5 to 7 acuminate lobes. yellow in autumn
chrysopsis;golden aster
mytilidae;marine mussels
genus mentha;mint plants
mimosoideae;alternative name used in some classification systems for the family mimosaceae
raphus;type genus of the raphidae: dodos
order dictyoptera;in some classifications replaced by the orders (here suborders) blattodea (cockroaches) and manteodea (mantids). in former classifications often subsumed under a much broader order orthoptera
testudinata;tortoises and turtles
genus solea;type genus of the soleidae
order filicales;true (leptosporangiate) ferns
genus vanilla;large genus of tropical climbing orchids. old and new worlds
andreaeales;comprises a single genus: andreaea
caprella;skeleton shrimp
order ginkgoales;coextensive with the family ginkgoaceae: plants that first appeared in the permian and now represented by a single surviving species. often included in coniferales
family muraenidae;marine eels
genus scombresox;a genus of scomberesocidae
andreaea;brown or blackish alpine mosses having a dehiscent capsule with 4 longitudinal slits
genus bungarus;kraits
diervilla;small genus of low deciduous shrubs: bush honeysuckles
genus peperomia;large genus of small tropical usually succulent herbs: radiator plants
salsola;chiefly old world herbs or shrubs: saltworts
sauropodomorpha;gigantic herbivorous dinosaurs having huge bodies with long necks and small heads: prosauropoda and sauropoda (apatosaurus. diplodocus. titanosaurs)
welwitschiaceae;in some classifications included in the gnetaceae
genus heteroscelus;tattlers
coffea;coffee trees
family anthocerotaceae;hornworts
family sisyridae;an arthropod family of the order neuroptera that includes spongeflies
orchid family;enormous cosmopolitan family of perennial terrestrial or epiphytic plants with fleshy tubers or rootstocks and unusual flowers
genus catananche;genus of mediterranean herbs: cupid's dart
phaeophyceae;brown algae. mostly marine and littoral eukaryotic algae
fistulariidae;cornetfishes
thlaspi;herbs of temperate regions: pennycress
thysanoptera;thrips
phylum pogonophora;beard worms
order cycadofilicales;fossil gymnospermous trees or climbing plants from the devonian: seed ferns
pipile;genus of large crested guans (the piping guans)
tupaiidae;tree shrews. in some classifications tree shrews are considered prosimian primates
armillariella;a honey-colored diminutive form of genus armillaria. grows in clusters. edible (when cooked) but most attention has been on how to get rid of it
genus caranx;type genus of the carangidae
anthropoidea;monkeys. apes. hominids
family timaliidae;babblers
allium;large genus of perennial and biennial pungent bulbous plants: garlic. leek. onion. chive. sometimes placed in family alliacea as the type genus
nasua;coatis
family branchiostegidae;small family of marine fishes having covered gills
genus cnemidophorus;whiptails
gentianella;genus of herbs with flowers that resemble gentian. in some classifications included in genus gentiana
lycaenidae;family of small usually brilliantly colored butterflies. males have short forelegs
gesneria family;large family of tropical herbs or shrubs or lianas. in some classification systems placed in the order scrophulariales
ascaphus;type genus of the ascaphidae. in some classifications included in the family leiopelmatidae
nyctaginaceae;a family of flowering plants of the order caryophyllales
family tenebrionidae;a family of arthropods including darkling beetles and mealworms
phycomycetes;a large and probably unnatural group of fungi and funguslike organisms comprising the mastigomycota (including the oomycetes) and zygomycota subdivisions of the division eumycota. a category not used in all systems
family viverrinae;genets. civets. mongooses
genus ibero mesornis;a genus of fossil bird of the subclass archaeornithes
pithecellobium;thorny shrubs and trees of tropical and subtropical america and asia
suborder passeres;two names for the suborder of typical songbirds
family rhincodontidae;small-toothed sharks comprising only one species
amphiprion;damsel fishes
family tineidae;clothes moths
genus gasterosteus;type genus of the family gasterosteidae
family phyllidae;leaf insects
genus pristis;type genus of the pristidae
carpocapsa;codling moths
chaenomeles;flowering quince
genus azolla;a genus of fern sometimes placed in its own family azollaceae
leucadendron;large genus of evergreen trees and shrubs having silvery white leaves and solitary terminal flowers with conspicuous silvery bracts
genus algeripithecus;an extinct genus of hominoidea
bubalus;in some classification systems included in genus bos. water buffaloes
genus amphisbaena;type genus of the amphisbaenidae
genus limonium;sea lavender
arisaema;tuberous or rhizomatous herbaceous perennials
ononis;genus of european subshrubs or herbs having pink or purple or yellow solitary or clustered flowers: restharrow
crassostrea;virginia oysters
gerbillinae;gerbils
genus cynomys;prairie dogs
genus fasciola;a genus of fasciolidae
genus cedrela;tropical american trees
raphidae;extinct dodos and solitaires
amphisbaenia;type genus of the amphisbaenidae
podocarpus;evergreen trees or shrubs. sometimes classified as member of the family taxaceae
family helodermatidae;only known venomous lizards
genus nepa;type genus of the nepidae: typical elongate-oval water scorpions
sideritis;genus of woolly aromatic herbs or subshrubs or shrubs of mediterranean region
genus schlumbergera;south american epiphytic or lithophytic cacti
bacillaceae;typically rod-shaped usually gram-positive bacteria that produce endospores
genus coragyps;a genus of cathartidae
genus phascolarctos;koalas
genus mylodon;type genus of the mylodontidae. sometimes included in family megatheriidae
genus mulloidichthys;a genus of mullidae
family crotalidae;new world vipers: pit vipers
hippoglossoides;a genus of pleuronectidae
passifloraceae;tropical woody tendril-climbing vines
magnoliopsida;comprising seed plants that produce an embryo with paired cotyledons and net-veined leaves. divided into six (not always well distinguished) subclasses (or superorders): magnoliidae and hamamelidae (considered primitive). caryophyllidae (an early and distinctive offshoot). and three more or less advanced groups: dilleniidae. rosidae. asteridae
class;(biology) a taxonomic group containing one or more orders
genus cervus;type genus of the cervidae
genus eranthis;winter aconite
genus monomorium;a genus of formicidae
family cercopithecidae;old world monkeys: guenon. baboon. colobus monkey. langur. macaque. mandrill. mangabey. patas. proboscis monkey
genus geomys;type genus of the geomyidae
lepechinia;a dicotyledonous genus of the family labiatae
rhoeadales;an order of dicotyledonous plants
violaceae;genera viola. hybanthus. hymenanthera. melicytus
hypopachus;sheep frogs
anostraca;small aquatic crustaceans lacking a carapace: fairy shrimps. brine shrimps
ferocactus;genus of nearly globular cacti of mexico and southwestern united states: barrel cacti
genus chelifer;a genus of chelonethida
family solenidae;razor clams
family coraciidae;rollers
genus copernicia;slow-growing tropical fan palms
form division;an artificial taxonomic category for organisms of which the true relationships are obscure
genus lilium;type genus of liliaceae
family saccharomycetaceae;family of fungi comprising the typical yeasts: reproduce by budding and ferment carbohydrates
genus tenrec;type genus of the family tenrecidae: tenrecs
genus gnaphalium;large widely distributed genus of coarse hairy herbs with whitish involucres
genus erethizon;a genus of erethizontidae
genus calendula;marigold
heteranthera;mud plaintains
family porcellionidae;sow bugs
genus tiarella;small genus of north american herbs having mostly basal leaves and slender racemes of delicate white flowers
cornaceae;a rosid dicot family of the order umbellales including: genera aucuba. cornus. corokia. curtisia. griselinia. helwingia
melanotis;a genus of mimidae
genus seseli;moon carrots
family annonaceae;chiefly tropical trees or shrubs
genus bubulcus;small white egrets
balistes;type genus of the balistidae
genus isurus;mako sharks
order podicipediformes;grebes
genus epidendrum;large and variable genus of terrestrial or epiphytic or lithophytic orchids of tropical and subtropical americas. some native to united states
genus opheodrys;north american green snakes
ascaphidae;family of one species of frog: tailed frog
family melastomataceae;a family of trees and bushes and herbs of order myrtales. many are cultivated as ornamentals
genus percina;a genus of percidae
genus pothos;evergreen climbers with adhesive adventitious roots. southeastern asia and brazil
suillus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family boletaceae
order madreporaria;stony corals
arecaceae;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines usually having a tall columnar trunk bearing a crown of very large leaves. coextensive with the order palmales
umbelliferae;plants having flowers in umbels: parsley. carrot. anise. caraway. celery. dill
uredinales;rust fungi: parasitic fungi causing rust in plants. sometimes placed in
centrospermae;used in former classification systems. approximately synonymous with order caryophyllales
tripleurospermum;small genus comprising plants often included in genus matricaria
tetrapturus;a genus of istiophoridae
pediculus;type genus of pediculidae: true lice infecting humans
genus genipa;tropical american evergreen trees or shrubs bearing yellow flowers and succulent edible fruit with a thick rind
genus simulium;type genus of the simuliidae: blackflies
lunaria;small genus of european herbs: honesty
foeniculum;very small genus of aromatic european herbs with pinnately compound leaves and yellow flowers
family lycoperdaceae;a fungus family belonging to the order lycoperdales. includes puffballs
sparidae;porgies. scups
genus haldea;ground snakes
genus pontederia;pickerelweed
order bennettitales;fossil gymnospermous plants of the carboniferous
family tiliaceae;chiefly trees and shrubs of tropical and temperate regions of especially southeastern asia and brazil. genera tilia. corchorus. entelia. grewia. sparmannia
mugiloidea;fishes distinguished by abdominal pelvic fins: families mugilidae. atherinidae. sphyraenidae
phleum;grasses native to temperate regions
genus sayornis;phoebes
genus chrysanthemum;in some classifications many plants usually assigned to the genus chrysanthemum have been divided among other genera: e.g. argyranthemum. dendranthema. leucanthemum. tanacetum
actinozoa;no alternation of generations the medusoid phase being entirely suppressed: sea anemones. corals
locusta;a genus of acrididae
genus lophophorus;monals
family cinclidae;water ouzels
sciuromorpha;large more or less primitive rodents: squirrels. marmots. gophers. beavers. etc.
genus mytilus;type genus of the family mytilidae: smooth-shelled marine mussels
opuntiales;coextensive with the family cactaceae: cactuses
digitaria;crab grass. finger grass
genus melicoccus;tropical american trees and shrubs bearing berries
genus schizachyrium;overlaps the genus andropogon
subclass rosidae;a group of trees and shrubs and herbs mostly with polypetalous flowers. contains 108 families including rosaceae. crassulaceae. myrtaceae. melastomaceae. euphorbiaceae. umbelliferae
fragaria;strawberries
spirillaceae;rigid spirally curved elongate bacteria
anthozoa;no alternation of generations the medusoid phase being entirely suppressed: sea anemones. corals
genus erythroxylon;a large genus of south american shrubs and small trees of the family erythroxylaceae
genus ceratozamia;small genus of mexican cycads. sometimes classified in family cycadaceae
catostomus;type genus of the family catostomidae
anacyclus;spanish pellitory
synercus;cape buffalo
hedge maple;shrubby eurasian maple often used as a hedge
subclass cirripedia;barnacles
potamogeton;a large genus of aquatic herbs found in quiet waters in temperate regions. leaves usually float on the water
genus cariama;type genus of the cariamidae comprising only the crested cariama
genus nyctimene;east indian fruit bats
castilleia;genus of western north and south american perennials often partially parasitic on roots of grasses
superclass agnatha;superclass of eel-shaped chordates lacking jaws and pelvic fins: lampreys. hagfishes. some extinct forms
form genus;(biology) an artificial taxonomic category for organisms of which the true relationships are obscure
orange mushroom pimple;a variety of mushroom pimple
common horehound;european aromatic herb with hairy leaves and numerous white flowers in axillary cymes. leaves yield a bitter extract use medicinally and as flavoring
class chondrichthyes;cartilaginous fishes
antrozous;a genus of vespertilionidae
suborder cephalaspida;extinct group of armored fishlike vertebrates. taxonomy is not clear
genus artocarpus;evergreen asiatic trees now grown through the tropics: breadfruit. jackfruit
oligochaeta;earthworms
helenium;genus of american herbs with yellow-rayed flowers: sneezeweeds
order ichthyosauria;extinct marine reptiles: ichthyosaurs
ruscaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
schlumbergera;south american epiphytic or lithophytic cacti
helvellaceae;family of false morels or lorchels. some are edible and some are poisonous
ariocarpus;slow-growing geophytic cacti. northern and eastern mexico. southern texas
acanthocereus;mostly trailing cacti having nocturnal white flowers. tropical america and caribbean region
milo;small drought-resistant sorghums having large yellow or whitish grains
merlangus;whitings
genus nasturtium;aquatic herbs
hexanchidae;primitive sharks
genus gopherus;gopher tortoises
lamnidae;oceanic sharks
onopordon;a genus of eurasian herbs of the family compositae with prickly foliage and large purplish flowers
cupressus;type genus of cupressaceae
genus bennettitis;type of the bennettitales
genus glossina;type genus of the glossinidae: tsetse flies
panicum capillare;north american grass with slender brushy panicles. often a weed on cultivated land
uintatheriidae;an extinct family of dinocerata
family myrmecophagidae;new world anteaters
genus phyllocladus;celery pine
orthopristis;a genus of haemulidae
scyliorhinidae;small bottom-dwelling sharks
genus litchi;chinese trees
family pomacentridae;damselfishes
genus keteleeria;a genus of keteleeria
numididae;guinea fowl and related birds of africa and madagascar
barnyard grass;a coarse annual panic grass. a cosmopolitan weed. occasionally used for hay or grazing
genus nephelium;a genus of dicotyledonous trees of the family sapindaceae that are native to asia and australia
arundinaria;north american bamboo
genus isopyrum;tufted perennial herbs of northern hemisphere
subfamily potoroinae;rat kangaroos
japanese millet;coarse annual grass cultivated in japan and southeastern asia for its edible seeds and for forage. important wildlife food in united states
superfamily platyrrhini;new world monkeys: capuchin. douroucouli. howler monkey. saki. spider monkey. squirrel monkey. titi. uakari. woolly monkey. marmoset. tamarin
genus polypedates;type genus of the polypedatidae
genus gymnocladus;small genus of deciduous trees of china and united states having paniculate flowers and thick pulpy pods
genus eleocharis;sedges having dense spikes of flowers and leaves reduced to basal sheaths
genus potamogale;type genus of the family potamogalidae: otter shrews
genus megalosaurus;type genus of the megalosauridae
genus lagenaria;bottle gourds
genus utahraptor;advanced bipedal carnivorous dinosaur
genus cercis;deciduous shrubs and trees of eastern asia, southern europe and the united states
genus bougainvillea;ornamental tropical woody vines
order polygonales;coextensive with the family polygonaceae,
bouteloua;forage grasses
thraupidae;tanagers
genus streptomyces;type genus of the family streptomycetacaea
genus crassula;type genus of crassulaceae. herbs and small shrubs having woody stems and succulent aerial parts
sipuncula;peanut worms
valerianaceae;genus of mostly herbs having a characteristic fetid odor
genus aconitum;genus of poisonous plants of temperate regions of northern hemisphere
philaenus;a genus of cercopidae
sillago;type genus of the sillaginidae
family nautilidae;spiral-shelled cephalopods
genus lindheimera;1 species: texas star
algeripithecus;an extinct genus of hominoidea
genus ipomoea;morning glory
pennisetum;a genus of old world grasses
echeneis;type genus of the echeneididae: typical remoras
procellariidae;petrels. fulmars. shearwaters.
order phasmida;in some classifications considered a suborder of orthoptera: stick insects. leaf insects
order octopoda;octopuses and paper nautilus
chlorophyceae;algae distinguished chiefly by having flagella and a clear green color, their chlorophyll being masked little if at all by other pigments
polypedatidae;old world tree frogs
toxostoma;thrashers
euphorbiaceae;a family of plants of order geraniales
acanthaceae;widely distributed herbs and shrubs and trees. sometimes placed in the order scrophulariales
genus welwitschia;type and sole genus of welwitschiaceae
genus phacelia;american herbs with usually pinatifid leaves and blue or purple or white flowers in scorpioid cymes
alopiidae;thresher sharks
genus triturus;chiefly aquatic salamanders
genus calochortus;large genus of western north american leafy-stemmed bulbous herbs
genus somateria;eider ducks
moehringia;low-growing herbs widely distributed in temperate and arctic northern hemisphere: sandworts. distinguished from members of the genus arenaria mainly by having 4- rather than 5-petaled flowers
iguanidae;new world lizards
family caprimulgidae;goatsuckers
order campanulales;an order or plants of the subclass asteridae including: campanulaceae. lobeliaceae. cucurbitaceae. goodeniaceae. stylidiaceae. calyceraceae. compositae
bacteria species;a species of bacteria
notoryctidae;pouched moles
lemmus;lemmings
culver s root;a tall perennial herb having spikes of small white or purple flowers. common in eastern north america
athyriaceae;alternative names for one of a number of families into which the family polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems
suborder clamatores;used in some classification systems. a suborder or superfamily nearly coextensive with suborder tyranni. passeriformes having relatively simple vocal organs and little power of song: clamatorial birds
caprimulgiformes;goatsuckers. frogmouths. oilbirds
subclass prototheria;echidnas. platypus
callistephus;1 species: erect asiatic herb with large flowers
genus hevea;small genus of south american trees yielding latex
suborder scorpaenoidea;mail-cheeked fishes: scorpionfishes. gurnards
genus solidago;goldenrod
ballota;perennial herbs or subshrubs of especially mediterranean area: black horehound
pedilanthus;tropical american succulent shrubs
ostraciidae;boxfishes
genus ceratotherium;african genus
myrica;deciduous aromatic shrubs or small trees
family psychodidae;very small two-winged flies with hairy wings that develop in moss and damp vegetable matter: sand flies
cinclus;type genus of the family cinclidae
genus cortinarius;the largest genus in th agaricales. rusty-spored agarics having prominent cortinae (cobwebby partial veils)
genus solanum;type genus of the solanaceae: nightshade. potato. eggplant. bittersweet
genus larrea;xerophytic evergreen shrubs. south america to southwestern united states
genus clathrus;type genus of the clathraceae
blatta;type genus of the blattidae: cockroaches infesting buildings worldwide
genus periploca;genus of woody vines of warm regions of the old world
agavaceae;chiefly tropical and xerophytic plants: includes dracenaceae (dracaenaceae). comprises plants that in some classifications are divided between the amaryllidaceae and the liliaceae
genus herrerasaurus;primitive theropod found in argentina. early triassic
geometridae;measuring worms
asclepiadaceae;widely distributed family of herbs and shrubs of the order gentianales. most with milky juice
phoeniculus;type and only genus of the family phoeniculidae
genus saponaria;mostly perennial old world herbs
family manidae;coextensive with the order pholidota
delphinus;type genus of the delphinidae
genus fagus;beeches
chrysopidae;green lacewings
genus pterocnemia;a genus of birds of the family rheidae
genus chlorura;towhees
pipridae;manakins
tineoidea;clothes moths. carpet moths. leaf miners
polygonatum;sometimes placed in subfamily convallariaceae
phylum acanthocephala;phylum or class of elongated wormlike parasites that live in the intestines of vertebrates: spiny-headed worms
heterotrichales;yellow-green_algae with simple or branching filaments. comprising the single family tribonemaceae
genus cuterebra;type genus of the cuterebridae
eumetopias;sea lions
polyzoa;marine or freshwater animals that form colonies of zooids
family gyrinidae;whirligig beetles
genus melospiza;american song sparrow and swamp sparrow
demochelys;type genus of the dermochelyidae: leatherback turtles
genus carphophis;thunder snake
acoraceae;used in some classifications for the genus acorus which is usually assigned to araceae
araucariaceae;tall evergreen cone-bearing trees of south america and australia with broad leathery leaves. in some classifications included in the pinaceae
family styracaceae;a widely distributed family of shrubs and trees of order ebenales
genus thalictrum;widely distributed genus of perennial herbs: meadow rue
family bovidae;true antelopes. cattle. oxen. sheep. goats
order berycomorphi;an order of spiny-finned fish in the superorder acanthopterygii
myricales;coextensive with the family myricaceae
genus notoryctus;type genus of the family notoryctidae: comprising solely the marsupial mole
genus baccharis;shrubs of western hemisphere often having honey-scented flowers followed by silky thistlelike heads of tiny fruits. often used for erosion control
strigiformes;owls
african millet;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
genus mya;type genus of the family myacidae
genus osmunda;type genus of the osmundaceae
genus tragulus;type genus of the tragulidae
manilkara;genus of large evergreen trees with milky latex. pantropical
genus vorticella;ciliates
hackelia;stickseed. beggar's lice
family crangonidae;shrimps
siluridae;old world catfishes
family anarhichadidae;wolffishes
genus pseudococcus;type genus of the pseudococcidae
pomacentrus;type genus of the pomacentridae: damselfishes
family casuaridae;a family of large ostrich-like birds including cassowaries
decumaria;small genus of woody climbers with adhesive aerial roots. sometimes placed in family saxifragaceae
dasyurus;type genus of the family dasyuridae: native cats
euryale;basket stars
amaranth family;cosmopolitan family of herbs and shrubs
genus peltandra;small genus of north american marsh or aquatic herbs
genus chrysopsis;golden aster
ebenaceae;fruit and timber trees of tropical and warm regions including ebony and persimmon
bangiaceae;a family of protoctista
genus tofieldia;genus of perennial herbs of cool temperate regions. sometimes placed in family melanthiaceae
ciconiidae;storks
jacksonia;genus of yellow-flowered australian unarmed or spiny shrubs without true leaves but having leaflike stems or branches
family petromyzontidae;lampreys
haminoea;common genus of marine bubble shells of the pacific coast of north america
tectaria;terrestrial or epilithic ferns of tropical rain forests
genus thuja;red cedar
arecidae;one of four subclasses or superorder of monocotyledones. comprises about 6400 species in 5 families of trees and shrubs and terrestrial herbs and a few free-floating aquatics including: palmae. araceae. pandanaceae: and lemnaceae
genus chimonanthus;small genus of asian deciduous or evergreen shrubs having fragrant flowers: winter_sweet
order polymastigina;small usually parasitic flagellates
radiigera;a genus of fungus belonging to the family geastraceae
genus mandrillus;baboons
alcea;genus of erect herbs of the middle east having showy flowers: hollyhocks. in some classification systems synonymous with althea
actaea;baneberry
tachyglossidae;echidnas
thomomys;western pocket gophers
suborder reptantia;lobsters. crabs
ascaris;type genus of the family ascaridae: roundworms with a three-lipped mouth
hipposideridae;old world leafnose bats
order solenogastres;an order of amphineura
genus coriandrum;small genus of annual mediterranean herbs
ligustrum;genus of old world shrubs: privet
family rheidae;a family of birds coextensive with the order rheiformes
grass tree family;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
genus myricaria;small genus of deciduous shrubs or subshrubs of southern europe to siberia and china. tolerant of chalky soil
buceros;type genus of the family bucerotidae
lophiidae;large-headed marine fishes comprising the anglers
avicenniaceae;used in some classifications: coextensive with the genus avicennia
belemnitidae;family of extinct mesozoic cephalopods
family microhylidae;narrow-mouthed toads and sheep frogs. some burrow and some are arboreal. found worldwide
gekkonidae;geckos
suborder brachyura;an order of crustaceans (including true crabs) having a reduced abdomen folded against the ventral surface
genus sphaeralcea;large genus of chiefly tropical herbs with showy flowers and mostly globose fruits: globe mallows
genus cebus;type genus of the cebidae
genus menyanthes;the type genus of the menyanthaceae. one species: bogbeans
order primates;an animal order including lemurs and tarsiers and monkeys and apes and human beings
family carapidae;pearlfishes: related to the brotulidae
meadow beauty family;a family of trees and bushes and herbs of order myrtales. many are cultivated as ornamentals
parophrys;a genus of soleidae
phycomycetes group;a large and probably unnatural group of fungi and funguslike organisms comprising the mastigomycota (including the oomycetes) and zygomycota subdivisions of the division eumycota. a category not used in all systems
teiidae;whiptails. etc.
cyclopteridae;lumpfishes
family dromaeosauridae;swift-running bipedal dinosaurs
elephantidae;elephants
genus numenius;curlews
antedon;a genus of echinoderms of the family antedonidae. formerly called genus comatula
gutierrezia;sticky perennial herbs and subshrubs of western north america and warm south america
class heterokontae;all the yellow-green algae having flagella of unequal length
schefflera;large genus of shrubby and climbing tropical plants having showy digitately compound foliage
blennius;type genus of the blenniidae
polyangium;type genus of the family polyangiaceae: myxobacteria with rounded fruiting bodies enclosed in a membrane
family colubridae;nonvenomous snakes. about two-thirds of all living species
order primulales;primulaceae. theophrastaceae. myrsinaceae. and (in some classifications) plumbaginaceae
order laminariales;in some classifications coextensive with family laminariaceae: marine brown algae of cold or polar seas
pinus;type genus of the pinaceae: large genus of true pines
benzoin;used in some classifications for the american spicebush and certain other plants often included in the genus lindera
peristediinae;in some classifications considered a subfamily of triglidae comprising the armored searobins
arenaria;turnstones
genus xanthosoma;tropical american tuberous perennials
family branchiostomidae;lancelets
subfamily gerbillinae;gerbils
sagittariidae;secretary birds
rumohra;leatherleaf ferns: in some classifications included in genus polystichum
ophiodon;a genus of ophiodontidae
genus dictostylium;genus of slime molds that grow on dung and decaying vegetation
danaidae;small family of usually tropical butterflies: monarch butterflies
genus leptarrhena;1 species: leatherleaf saxifrage
papaveraceae;herbs or shrubs having milky and often colored juices and capsular fruits
genus hemachatus;ringhals
selaginellaceae;lesser clubmosses: terrestrial chiefly tropical plants resembling mosses
calycophyllum;medium to large tropical american trees having shiny reddish-brown shredding bark
eleusine coracana;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
podargus;type genus of the podargidae
subclass arecidae;one of four subclasses or superorder of monocotyledones. comprises about 6400 species in 5 families of trees and shrubs and terrestrial herbs and a few free-floating aquatics including: palmae. araceae. pandanaceae: and lemnaceae
genus spirochaeta;type genus of the family spirochaetaceae. flexible undulating chiefly aquatic bacteria
trifolium;any leguminous plant having leaves divided into three leaflets
family polypodiaceae;ferns: a large genus that in some classification systems has been subdivided into the families: aspleniaceae. blechnaceae. davalliaceae. dennstaedtiaceae. dryopteridaceae. nephrolepidaceae. oleandraceae. pteridaceae. vittariaceae. includes genera aglaomorpha. anarthropteris
genus sabbatia;genus of smooth slender north american herbs with showy flowers
family anatidae;swimming birds having heavy short-legged bodies and bills with a horny tip: swans. geese. ducks
genus raphia;feather palm of tropical africa and madagascar and central and south america widely grown for commercial purposes
genus calopogon;terrestrial orchids of north america
burseraceae;resinous or aromatic chiefly tropical shrubs or trees
babyrousa;a genus of suidae
genus picoides;a genus of picidae
strix;owls lacking ear tufts
crocodylia;crocodiles. alligators. caimans. gavials
genus uintatherium;type genus of the uintatheriidae. extinct large herbivorous ungulates somewhat resembling elephants. from the eocene in wyoming
genus nothosaurus;a genus of nothosauria
genus cronartium;rust fungi having aecia produced in raised or swollen sori and teliospores borne in waxy columns
subclass dibranchia;comprising all living cephalopods except the family nautilidae: the orders octopoda (octopuses) and decapoda (squids and cuttlefish)
family elapidae;cobras. kraits. mambas. coral snakes. australian taipan and tiger snakes
family lardizabalaceae;thick-stemmed lianas and some shrubs. some have edible fruit
genus grewia;a genus of tropical and subtropical old world climbers or shrubs or trees
scorpaena;type genus of the scorpaenidae: scorpionfishes
genus eucarya;quandong trees
fulmarus;fulmars
callitris;evergreen monoecious coniferous trees or shrubs: cypress pines
genus nemophila;genus of ornamental chiefly california herbs: baby blue-eyes
triostium;genus of asiatic and north american herbs: feverroot
ranunculaceae;a family of ranunculaceae
turtledove;any of several old world wild doves
genus schinus;genus of evergreen shrubs and trees of tropical and subtropical regions of south and central america and canary islands and china
artemia;fairy shrimp. brine shrimp
ursidae;bears and extinct related forms
acer negundo;common shade tree of eastern and central united states
selaginella lepidophylla;densely tufted fern ally of southwestern united states to peru. curls up in a tight ball when dry and expands and grows under moist conditions
gallus;common domestic birds and related forms
genus falcatifolium;sickle pines: dioecious evergreen tropical trees and shrubs having sickle-shaped leaves. similar to dacrycarpus in habit. malaysia and philippines to new guinea and new ledonia
genus phlebotomus;small blood-sucking sand flies that resemble moths
genus lambis;scorpion shells of shallow tropical waters of the eastern hemisphere
corixa;type genus of the corixidae: boat bugs
ginkgopsida;ginkgos: in some systems classified as a class (ginkgopsida) and in others as a subdivision (ginkgophytina or ginkgophyta). used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
pomacanthus;angelfishes
family cephalobidae;a family of nematoda
platypoecilus;platys
order gregarinida;an order in the subclass telosporidia
passeriformes;largest order of birds comprising about half the known species: rooks. finches. sparrows. tits. warblers. robins. wrens. swallows. etc.. in four suborders: eurylaimi. tyranni. menurae: oscines or passeres
family clethraceae;coextensive with the genus clethra
genus pagellus;sea breams
genus malvaviscus;small genus of shrubs of central and south america: wax mallows
lepomis;bream
phthirius;true lice: crab lice
genus annona;type genus of the annonaceae. tropical american trees or shrubs
genus pinnotheres;type genus of the family pinnotheridae: pea crabs
synanceja;stonefishes
subphylum;(biology) a taxonomic group ranking between a phylum and a class
genus hylactophryne;barking frogs
genus pleiospilos;perennial succulents of south africa
berberidaceae;shrubs or herbs
genus aristotelia;small genus of shrubs or small trees of australia and new zealand and western south america
pithecia;sakis
superfamily coccoidea;scale insects and mealybugs
genus robinia;deciduous flowering trees and shrubs
family azollaceae;used in some classifications for the genus azolla
matthiola;genus of old world plants grown as ornamentals
order chlorococcales;unicellular green algae that reproduce by spores
order amoebida;the animal order including amoebas
clitoria;genus of tropical shrubs or vines having pinnate leaves and large axillary flowers
opuntia;large genus of cactuses native to america: prickly pears
genus dracontium;small genus of tropical american cormous herbs
hydrochoeridae;capybara
moniliaceae;family of imperfect fungi having white or brightly colored hyphae and spores that are produced directly on the mycelium and not aggregated in fruiting bodies
conepatus;a genus of mustelidae
order rickettsiales;pleomorphic gram-negative microorganisms
family ziphiidae;beaked whales. in some esp. former classifications included in the family physeteridae
genus laelia;large genus of mostly epiphytic or lithophytic central and south american orchids of various sizes
genus cynopterus;a genus of megachiroptera
micrurus;coral snakes
nothosauria;a suborder of sauropterygia
maianthemum;sometimes placed in family convallariaceae: false lily of the valley
endoprocta;sometimes considered a subphylum of bryozoa
genus anoa;a genus of mammals of the family bovidae
sea lettuce family;thin flat or tubular green algae
aglaonema;climbing herbs of southeastern asia having thick fleshy oblong leaves and naked unisexual flowers: chinese evergreen
shallu;sorghum having slender dry stalks and small hard grains. introduced into united states from india
brosmius;cusk
genus sphaerocarpus;type genus of sphaerocarpaceae. liverworts with small many-lobed usually orbicular thallus
genus nopalea;a genus of the cactus family with scarlet flowers
class osteichthyes;a class of fish having a skeleton composed of bone in addition to cartilage
pickeringia;1 species: chaparral pea
marchantiales;liverworts with gametophyte differentiated internally
class gnetopsida;gymnospermous flowering plants. supposed link between conifers and angiosperms. in some systems classified as as class (gnetopsida) and in others as a subdivision (gnetophytina or gnetophyta)
order odonata;dragonflies and damselflies
genus leucaena;small genus of tropical evergreen trees or shrubs having pods like those of the acacia
genus pericallis;cineraria
hydrophidae;sea snakes
palmaceae;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines usually having a tall columnar trunk bearing a crown of very large leaves. coextensive with the order palmales
genus marchantia;type genus of marchantiaceae. liverworts that reproduce asexually by gemmae and have stalked antheridiophores
order auriculariales;coextensive with the family auriculariaceae. sometimes included in the order tremellales
cypraea;type genus of the family cypraeidae: the typical cowries
genus rhizoctinia;form genus of imperfect fungi some species of which are now placed in genera pellicularia and corticium because their perfect stages have been found
panicum;panic grass
family sirenidae;sirens
genus spilogale;a genus of mustelidae
burmanniaceae;family of chiefly tropical herbs with basal leaves like bracts and small flowers
prunellidae;hedge sparrow
megaptera;humpback whales
picea;a genus of temperate and arctic evergreen trees (see spruce)
genus globigerina;type genus of the family globigerinidae
genus astronium;a genus of dicotyledonous plants of the family anacardiaceae
jungermanniaceae;comprising the leafy members of the order jungermanniales
family tuberaceae;family of fungi whose ascocarps resemble tubers and vary in size from that of an acorn to that of a large apple
taxidea;in some classifications considered a genus of subfamily melinae
genus buteo;broad-winged soaring hawks
genus amberboa;herbs of mediterranean to central asia cultivated for their flowers
genus idesia;1 species
family agonidae;poachers
genus pholiota;genus of brown-spored gilled agarics of europe and north america having an annulus and growing on open ground or decaying wood
genus pterospermum;genus of tropical asian trees and shrubs
brassica;mustards: cabbages. cauliflowers. turnips. etc.
genus holbrookia;earless lizards
genus spirillum;a genus of bacteria
genus acris;cricket frogs
pastinaca;a rosid dicot genus of the family umbelliferae. includes parsnips
campephilus;a genus of picidae
genus sialia;north american bluebirds
oenanthe;wheatears
genus lyonia;evergreen or deciduous shrubs or small trees of united states to antilles and eastern asia to the himalaya
family hymenophyllaceae;terrestrial (hygrophytic) or epiphytic ferns: filmy ferns
genus zalophus;sea lions
poppy family;herbs or shrubs having milky and often colored juices and capsular fruits
aotus;douroucoulis
aspidiotus;a genus of diaspididae
tapiridae;tapirs and extinct related forms
cephalotaxus;the genus of cephalotaxus (see plum-yews)
genus commiphora;genus of east indian and african trees yielding balsamic products
limicolae;term used in some classifications for migratory shorebirds. coextensive with the charadrii
trichomanes;bristle ferns. kidney ferns
family rynchopidae;coextensive with the genus rynchops: skimmers
family ophidiidae;eel-like marine fishes
family megalonychidae;two-toed sloths
genus astacus;type genus of the family astacidae. old world crayfish
genus rhinoptera;a genus of myliobatidae
genus volvaria;agarics having pink spores and a distinct volva
ostrea;type genus of the family ostreidae
tupinambis;tejus
xylopia;tropical evergreen trees or shrubs. chiefly african
class bacillariophyceae;marine and freshwater eukaryotic algae: diatoms
genus sisymbrium;genus of old world annual or biennial or perennial herbs with racemose flowers. many are considered to be weeds
odontoceti;toothed whales: dolphins. porpoises. sperm whales. beaked whales
batidaceae;family coextensive with genus batis: saltworts
spatangoida;heart-shaped sea urchins
family palaemonidae;prawns
genus podophyllum;perennial rhizomatous herbs
pseudoryx;species of large cow-like mammals of vietnam discovered by scientists in 1992
trachinotus;a genus of carangidae
callitrichaceae;dicot aquatic herbs
hugueninia;1 species: tansy-leaved rocket
family parmeliaceae;a family of lichens
ostrya;deciduous monoecious trees of europe and asia and america. sometimes placed in subfamily or family carpinaceae
genus cnicus;1 species: blessed thistle
schizophragma;small genus of deciduous climbing and creeping shrubs with white flowers in flat clusters. sometimes placed in family saxifragaceae
genus anguillula;a genus of cephalobidae
order sphagnales;coextensive with the genus sphagnum. in some classifications isolated in a separate subclass
genus guaiacum;small genus of evergreen resinous trees or shrubs of warm and tropical america
genus cordyline;asiatic and pacific trees or shrubs. fragments of the trunk will regrow to form whole plants
fish family;any of various families of fish
genus orectolobus;carpet sharks
genus paliurus;thorny eurasian shrubs
family resedaceae;mainly mediterranean herbs: mignonette
genus crepis;hawk's beard. cosmopolitan in northern hemisphere
family carangidae;large family of narrow-bodied marine food fishes with widely forked tails. chiefly of warm seas
genus triga;type genus of the triglidae
aramus;genus of large brown long-billed wading birds found in warm swampy regions of the western hemisphere: courlan. limpkin
genus thryothorus;carolina wrens
genus malva;herbs and subshrubs: mallows
subclass entomostraca;in some older classifications includes the branchiopoda and copepoda and ostracoda and cirripedia. no longer in technical use
ceratodontidae;lungfishes having hornlike ridges on the teeth
hunnemannia;1 species: golden cup
phegopteris;beech ferns: genus is variously classified: considered alternative name for genus drypopteris or included in genus thelypteris
hostaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted. includes genus hosta
genus porphyrio;old world purple gallinules
family rhinocerotidae;rhinoceroses
glis;type genus of the gliridae
genus zannichellia;horned pondweed: completely submerged herbs. in some classifications included in potamogetonaceae
hamamelidoxylon;genus of fossil plants having wood identical with or similar to that of the witch hazel
genus micruroides;coral snakes
genus eucinostomus;a genus of gerreidae
genus dolichotis;maras
penelope;a genus of guans (turkey-like arboreal birds valued as game and food birds)
genus sylvilagus;north american rabbits
pyrocephalus;a genus of tyrannidae
parasitaxus;1 species: parasite yew
genus glycine;genus of asiatic erect or sprawling herbs: soya bean
hedera;old world woody vines
genus payena;genus of medium to large malaysian trees yielding gutta-percha
firmiana;small genus of asian trees or shrubs
genus cannabis;hemp: genus of coarse annuals native to central asia and widely naturalized in north temperate regions. in some classifications included in the family moraceae
gnaphalium;large widely distributed genus of coarse hairy herbs with whitish involucres
genus charina;boas of western north america
genus stylomecon;1 species: wind poppy
plectania;genus of fungi in the family pezizaceae closely related to and often included in genus peziza
serratula;genus of old world perennial herbs with spirally arranged toothed leaves
menura;type and sole genus of the family menuridae
family congridae;marine eels
nycticorax;old world night herons
sphaerocarpos;type genus of sphaerocarpaceae. liverworts with small many-lobed usually orbicular thallus
ceratopogon;type genus of the ceratopogonidae
family trichechidae;comprising only the manatees
lagidium;a genus of chinchillidae
genus phlox;herbaceous to shrubby evergreen or deciduous annuals or perennials, diffuse (spreading) or caespitose (tufted or matted). from alaska and western canada to mexico
chateura;a genus of apodidae
lampris;type genus of the lampridae
titanosaurus;genus of herbivorous dinosaurs flourishing during the cretaceous in south america
class pteridospermopsida;extinct gymnosperms most of carboniferous to jurassic: seed ferns and allies
milo maize;small drought-resistant sorghums having large yellow or whitish grains
family charadriidae;plover family
acanthocybium;wahoos
sphecoidea;families sphecidae and stizidae
genus coreopsis;genus of american plants widely cultivated for their flowers
genus limnobium;american frogbit
switch grass;grass of western america used for hay
division gymnomycota;slime molds. organisms having a noncellular and multinucleate creeping vegetative phase and a propagative spore-producing stage: comprises myxomycetes and acrasiomycetes and plasmodiophoromycetes. in some classifications placed in the kingdom_protoctista
genus lasiocampa;type genus of the lasiocampidae: eggars
genus gaylussacia;deciduous or evergreen shrubs of north america: black huckleberries
erolia;a genus of scolopacidae
streptomycetacaea;higher bacteria typically aerobic soil saprophytes
laguncularia;a genus of laguncularia
order gymnophiona;an order of amphibians including caecilians (in former classifications it was called order apoda)
cymatiidae;tritons
aporocactus;small genus of epiphytic cacti of mexico
fringilla;type genus of the fringillidae: chaffinch, brambling
genus marmota;marmots
genus prionace;blue sharks
sweetleaf family;a dicotyledonous family of order ebenales
family indicatoridae;honey guides
family scaridae;parrotfishes
genus hemigrammus;tetras
acer saccharinum;a common north american maple tree. 5-lobed leaves are light green above and silvery white beneath. source of hard close-grained but brittle light-brown wood
gypaetus;in some classifications the type genus of the family aegypiidae
genus ledum;evergreen shrubs of north temperate regions
genus pholis;type genus of the pholidae: gunnels
genus arabis;annual to perennial woody herbs of temperate north america, europe and asia: rockcress
ginkgophyta;ginkgos: in some systems classified as a class (ginkgopsida) and in others as a subdivision (ginkgophytina or ginkgophyta). used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
family lorisidae;slow-moving omnivorous nocturnal primates of tropical asia. usually tailless
class turbellaria;free-living flatworms
family typhlopidae;blind snakes
styrax family;a widely distributed family of shrubs and trees of order ebenales
family hydrocharidaceae;simple nearly stemless freshwater aquatic plants. widely distributed
genus plasmodium;type genus of the family plasmodiidae
family polyporaceae;fungi that become corky or woody with age, often forming shelflike growths on trees
lomogramma;large scandent ferns of southeastern asia
genus cedrus;true cedars
little club moss;any of numerous fern allies of the genus selaginella
rajiformes;fish with dorsoventrally flattened bodies. includes: rays. skates. guitarfishes. sawfishes
hyperotreta;hagfishes as distinguished from lampreys
equisetum;horsetails. coextensive with the family equisetaceae
genus roccella;chiefly fruticose maritime rock-inhabiting lichens
decapterus;scads especially mackerel scad. cosmopolitan
kingdom plantae;the taxonomic kingdom comprising all living or extinct plants
genus pueraria;genus of woody asiatic vines: kudzu
erinaceidae;true hedgehogs
genus sebastiana;mexican spurges
order aepyorniformes;huge extinct flightless birds: elephant birds
iguania;new world lizards
aphis;type genus of the aphididae: injurious to fruit trees and vegetables
scaridae;parrotfishes
genus catharacta;skuas
spergula;small genus of old world annual herbs: corn spurry
pholadidae;a family of bivalvia
sarcocephalus;genus of tropical african trees and shrubs
genus sardinops;pilchards
acer negundo californicum;maple of the united states pacific coast. fruits are white when mature
family molidae;ocean sunfishes
ornithogalum;sometimes placed in family hyacinthaceae
rhyncostylis;genus of epiphytic orchids of tropical asia
dipodomys;kangaroo rats
genus anguilla;type genus of the anguillidae: eels
genus pedioecetes;sharp-tailed grouse
aegiceras;a genus of herbs of the family verbenaceae
pagurus;type genus of the family paguridae
marantaceae;tropical perennial herbs with usually starchy rhizomes
genus certhia;type genus of the certhiidae
genus leymus;genus that in some classifications overlaps the genus elymus
sorex;type genus of the family soricidae: shrews
pelobatidae;spadefoot toads
cannabidaceae;2 genera of erect or twining wind-pollinated herbs: genera cannabis and humulus. term not used in all classifications. in some the genus cannabis is placed in the family moraceae and the genus humulus in the family urticaceae
magnoliopsid genus;genus of flowering plants having two cotyledons (embryonic leaves) in the seed which usually appear at germination
prunus;a genus of shrubs and trees of the family rosaceae that is widely distributed in temperate regions
hosta;robust east asian clump-forming perennial herbs having racemose flowers: plantain lilies. sometimes placed in family hostaceae
vespertilio;a genus of vespertilionidae
hamamelidae;a group of chiefly woody plants considered among the most primitive of angiosperms. perianth poorly developed or lacking. flowers often unisexual and often in catkins and often wind pollinated. contains 23 families including the betulaceae and fagaceae (includes the amentiferae). sometimes classified as a superorder
genus synagrops;a genus of serranidae
castor;type genus of the castoridae: beavers
characinidae;former name of the characidae
family tettigoniidae;long-horned grasshoppers. katydids
genus cryptacanthodes;a genus of stichaeidae
philohela;american woodcocks
lichanura;boas of western north america
family clavariaceae;fleshy fungi: coral fungi
erethizon;a genus of erethizontidae
class placodermi;extinct group of bony-plated fishes with primitive jaws
family lasiocampidae;tent caterpillars. eggars. lappet moths
genus anomalopteryx;small moas
pennatula;type genus of the family pennatulidae: sea pens
genus pseudocolus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family clathraceae
trogonidae;coextensive with the order trogoniformes
suborder heterostraci;extinct group of armored jawless fishes or fishlike vertebrate. taxonomy is not clear
genus chimaphila;small genus of evergreen herbs with long creeping rootstocks and shining leaves. north america. europe. east asia
genus coregonus;type genus of the coregonidae: whitefishes
family lamnidae;oceanic sharks
family buccinidae;whelks
family oscillatoriaceae;blue green algae
genus drymarchon;a genus of colubridae
podocarpus family;gymnosperms with simple persistent needlelike or scalelike leaves
icteridae;american orioles. american blackbirds. bobolinks. meadowlarks
order siphonaptera;fleas
family trionychidae;soft-shelled turtles
melophagus;an arthropod genus of wingless flies including the sheep ked
genus seismosaurus;genus of large herbivorous dinosaurs of cretaceous found in western north america
chamaeleontidae;old world chameleons. in some classifications rhiptoglossa is considered a superfamily of sauria
superorder malacopterygii;an extensive group of teleost fishes having fins supported by flexible cartilaginous rays
oxytropis;large widely-distributed genus of evergreen shrubs or subshrubs having odd-pinnate leaves and racemose or spicate flowers each having a pealike corolla with a clawed petal
triglochin;perennial or annual bog or marsh plants. includes arrow_grass
genus amanita;genus of widely distributed white-spored agarics being poisonous with few exceptions
eriocaulon;type genus of the eriocaulaceae: rushlike aquatic or marginal perennials usually found in shallow waters of acid lakes and pools and bogs
pellicularia;genus of fungi having the hymenium in the form of a crust. some species formerly placed in the form genus rhizoctinia
genus psilotum;type genus of the psilotaceae
genus pecopteris;genus of carboniferous fossil ferns
suborder tarsioidea;in some classifications assigned to the suborder prosimii
genus aleurites;candlenut
claytonia;genus of mainly north american succulent herbs with white or pink flowers usually in terminal racemes
genus lutjanus;type genus of the lutjanidae: snappers
selaginellales;in some classifications included in lycopodiales
genus gazella;typical gazelles
genus averrhoa;trees native to east indies having pinnate leaves: carambolas
order helotiales;order of fungi having asci in a disk- to goblet-shaped apothecium
genus pavonia;genus of tropical hairy shrubs or herbs of tropics and subtropics especially south america
genus kochia;summer cypress
cydippida;ctenophores having two long pinnate tentacles
genus calceolaria;large genus of tropical american herbs and shrubs with showy cymose flowers
subfamily merginae;mergansers and closely related diving birds
elodea;submerged freshwater perennials
genus bursera;type genus of burseraceae. tropical and subtropical american shrubs and trees some yielding timber and gum elemi
hypodermatidae;warble flies
genus serenoa;one species: saw palmetto
myxobacteriaceae;bacteria living mostly in soils and on dung
genus commelina;type genus of the commelinaceae. large genus of herbs of branching or creeping habit: day flower. widow's tears
genus nautilus;type genus and sole recent representative of the family nautilidae
anemopsis;1 species: yerba_mansa
genus sciadoptys;type and sole genus of sciadoptyaceae. japanese umbrella pines
family phillidae;leaf insects
genus entandrophragma;cedar mahogany trees
subdivision zygomycotina;division of fungi having sexually produced zygospores
horsetail family;sole surviving family of the equisetales: fern allies
genus erignathus;bearded seals
sayornis;phoebes
selaginella rupestris;tufted spikemoss forming loose spreading mats. eastern north america
genus chrysochloris;type genus of the chrysochloridae
genus hemitripterus;sea ravens
genus solenostemon;genus of shrubby often succulent herbs of tropical africa and asia. includes some plants often placed in genus coleus
fern family;families of ferns and fern allies
class sphenopsida;horsetails and related forms
punicaceae;1 species: pomegranates
family menuridae;lyrebirds
family verbenaceae;family of new world tropical and subtropical herbs and shrubs and trees
family amygdalaceae;used in former classifications for plum and peach and almond trees which are now usually classified as members of the genus prunus
lycopodiales;lower vascular plants coextensive with the family lycopodiaceae. in some classifications includes the selaginellaceae and isoetaceae
family alliaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted. includes especially genus allium
order ephemeroptera;mayflies
family simuliidae;blackflies and sand flies
genus pholas;type genus of the family pholadidae: piddocks
macrorhamphosidae;bellows fishes
genus saurosuchus;early archosaurian carnivore
cicuta;small genus of perennial herbs having deadly poisonous tuberous roots: water hemlock
coracan;east indian cereal grass whose seed yield a somewhat bitter flour, a staple in the orient
hatiora;small genus of south american epiphytic or lithophytic cacti
genus charadrius;type genus of the charadriidae: plovers
bladderwort family;carnivorous aquatic or bog plants: genera utricularia. pinguicula. genlisea
genus musophaga;type genus of the musophagidae
fratercula;puffins
order myxosporidia;an order in the subclass cnidosporidia
genus ictonyx;a genus of mustelidae
family turnicidae;small old world birds resembling but not related to true quail
genus lyrurus;black grouse
family cecropiaceae;in some classifications included in family moraceae
genus quiscalus;grackles
genus oreamnos;mountain goats
order dermoptera;flying lemurs
genus erythronium;perennial bulbous herbs most of northern united states: dogtooth violet. adder's tongue. trout lily. fawn lily
genus anhima;type genus of the anhimidae. horned screamers
petroselinum;parsley
genus baptisia;genus of north american plants with showy pealike flowers and an inflated pod
exopterygota;subclass of insects characterized by gradual and usually incomplete metamorphosis
genus sonchus;sow thistles
anatidae;swimming birds having heavy short-legged bodies and bills with a horny tip: swans. geese. ducks
dasyproctidae;agoutis and pacas
hemiramphidae;halfbeaks. marine and freshwater fishes closely related to the flying fishes but not able to glide
order plecoptera;stoneflies
genus sialis;type genus of the sialidae
bellflower family;in some classifications includes lobeliaciae
symplocarpus;one species: skunk cabbage
xyphophorus;swordtails
genus urosaurus;a reptile genus of iguanidae
pediculidae;true lice: human lice and related forms
family najadaceae;monotypic family of aquatic plants having narrow leaves and small flowers
lycoperdaceae;a fungus family belonging to the order lycoperdales. includes puffballs
proteales;coextensive with the family proteaceae
capparidaceae;a dilleniid dicot family of the order rhoeadales that includes: genera capparis. cleome. crateva. polanisia
genus phyllitis;a genus of ferns belonging to the family polypodiaceae (in some classification systems included in genus asplenium)
genus capricornis;serows
pyrus;fruit trees native to the old world: pears
genus leucadendron;large genus of evergreen trees and shrubs having silvery white leaves and solitary terminal flowers with conspicuous silvery bracts
dalbergia;large genus of tropical trees having pinnate leaves and paniculate flowers and cultivated commercially for their dramatically grained and colored timbers
veronicastrum virginicum;a tall perennial herb having spikes of small white or purple flowers. common in eastern north america
genus crex;corncrakes
ameiuridae;north american catfishes
genus tremella;fungi with yellowish gelatinous sporophores having convolutions resembling those of the brain
mirabilis;four_o'clocks
genus myopus;a genus of cricetidae
genus montezuma;1 species: medium-sized evergreen tree of puerto rico or mexico
atrichornis;type genus of the atrichornithidae
ribes;a flowering shrub bearing currants or gooseberries. native to northern hemisphere
gigartinaceae;a family of protoctista
osteostraci;extinct group of armored fishlike vertebrates. taxonomy is not clear
order urticales;an order of dicotyledonous plants including moraceae and urticaceae and ulmaceae
viperidae;old world vipers
pomatomidae;food and game fishes related to pompanos
genus crataegus;thorny shrubs and small trees: hawthorn. thorn. thorn_apple
maxostoma;a genus of fish in the family catostomidae
subdivision pinophytina;most conifers: in some systems classified as a class (pinopsida) and in others as a subdivision (pinophytina). used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
carya;genus of large deciduous nut-bearing trees. united states and china
temnospondyli;formerly a suborder of stegocephalia. large carboniferous and permian amphibians having vertebrae in which some elements remain separate
cibotium;in some classification systems placed in family cyatheaceae: ornamental tree ferns with coarse gracefully drooping fronds
ortalis;chachalacas
genus argyrotaenia;orange tortrix
polistes;a genus of vespidae
genus procavia;type genus of the procaviidae
naiad family;monotypic family of aquatic plants having narrow leaves and small flowers
genus hylocereus;genus of climbing or epiphytic tropical american cacti with angular stems and mostly white very fragrant flowers
class cycadopsida;palmlike gymnosperms: includes the surviving order cycadales and several extinct orders. possibly not a natural group. in some systems considered a class (cycadopsida) and in others a subdivision (cycadophytina or cycadophyta)
cacicus;a genus of tropical american orioles
genus thlaspi;herbs of temperate regions: pennycress
coereba;type genus of the coerebidae
genus actinidia;small asiatic woody vine bearing many-seeded fruit
gourd family;a family of herbaceous vines (such cucumber or melon or squash or pumpkin)
genus ajaia;a genus of platalea
family recurvirostridae;long-legged shorebirds
genus batis;small genus of plants constituting the family batidaceae: low straggling dioecious shrubs
ophioglossales;coextensive with the family ophioglossaceae
genus potorous;potoroos
acinonyx;cheetahs
phalangiidae;a family of phalangida
genus enterolobium;small genus of tropical american timber trees closely allied to genus albiza
cricetus;type genus of the cricetidae: old world hamsters
cunoniaceae;trees or shrubs or climbers. mostly southern hemisphere
genus gleichenia;type genus of gleicheniaceae: leptosporangiate ferns with sessile sporangia. south africa to maylasia and new zealand
struthioniformes;a ratite bird order: ostriches and related extinct birds. known from the pleistocene onward
polybotrya;tropical american ferns. usually terrestrial when young but scandent later
genus dacrydium;australasian evergreen trees or shrubs
genus alauda;type genus of the alaudidae: skylarks
rock maple;maple of eastern and central north america having 3- to 5-lobed leaves and hard close-grained wood much used for cabinet work especially the curly-grained form. sap is chief source of maple syrup and maple sugar. many subspecies
citrullus;a dicot genus of the family cucurbitaceae including watermelons
genus hakea;australian shrubs and small trees with evergreen usually spiny leaves and dense clusters of showy flowers
division tracheophyta;in former classifications: comprising plants with a vascular system including ferns and fern allies as well as seed plants
loriinae;lories
suborder scombroidea;mackerels. tunas. albacores. bonitos. swordfishes. sailfishes
genus tapirus;type genus of the tapiridae
denisonia;copperheads
family caenolestidae;small marsupials of southern south america
order zygnematales;pond scums. desmids
balaenicipitidae;shoebills
genus platanthera;herbaceous terrestrial orchids of temperate northern and southern hemispheres
family dacninae;the honeycreepers
genus malope;small genus of chiefly european herbs
crocethia;a genus of scolopacidae
cordaitales;extinct plants having tall arborescent trunks comparable to or more advanced than cycads. known from the pennsylvanian. probably extinct since the mesozoic
genus pisonia;genus of often thorny tropical trees and shrubs and some vines. mainly america
family phyllostomidae;new world leaf-nosed bats
family sepiidae;true cuttlefishes
eira;a genus of mustelidae
cicer;chick-pea plant. asiatic herbs
class equisetatae;horsetails and related forms
blattella;small cockroaches
family spirulidae;coextensive with the genus spirula. included in the order belemnoidea in some older classifications
anthriscus;chervil: of europe, north africa and asia
genus tautogolabrus;a genus of labridae
amphibolips;cynipid gall wasps, esp. causing oak-apple galls
genus ovibos;consisting of the musk-ox
class hymenomycetes;used in some classifications. usually coextensive with order agaricales: mushrooms. toadstools. agarics. bracket fungi
plataleidae;spoonbills
paracheirodon;a genus of characidae
dirca;deciduous shrub of north america: leatherwood
diodon;type genus of the diodontidae
genus automeris;io moth
genus psittacus;type genus of the psittacidae: usually restricted to the african gray
formicarius;type genus of the formicariidae
katsuwonus;oceanic bonitos. in some classifications placed in its own family katsuwonidae
genus corozo;a monocotyledonous genus of tropical american palm trees
alcelaphus;african antelopes: hartebeests
mollienesia;mollies
genus sobralia;genus of tropical american orchids
caryophylloid dicot genus;genus of relatively early dicotyledonous plants including mostly flowers
order percomorphi;one of the largest natural groups of fishes of both marine and fresh water: true perches. basses. tuna
pinnipedia;seals. sea lions. walruses
parrotia;1 species: irontree
genus acrostichum;in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae
monodon;type genus of the monodontidae
genus dipladenia;genus of tropical south american tuberous perennial woody vines with large racemose flowers and milky sap
family apterygidae;coextensive with the order apterygiformes
genus zygocactus;small genus of brazilian cacti having flat fleshy usually branched joints and showy red or pink flowers followed by red fleshy fruits
cilioflagellata;in some classifications considered a phylum of the kingdom protista. in others included in the plant phylum pyrrophyta
mobula;type genus of the mobulidae
genus glareola;type genus of the glareolidae: the pratincoles
genus scarabaeus;type genus of the scarabaeidae
genus buddleia;shrubs or trees of warm regions
family lennoaceae;family of fleshy parasitic herbs lacking green foliage and having heads of small flowers. california and mexico
genus fissurella;type genus of the family fissurellidae: keyhole limpets
glaucium;herbs of europe and north africa and asia: horned poppy
mayetiola;a genus of cecidomyidae
family ichthyosauridae;later ichthyosaurs of the jurassic and cretaceous. widely distributed in both hemispheres
squillidae;crustaceans that burrow in mud or under stones in shallow water along the seashore
genus rumex;docks: coarse herbs and shrubs mainly native to north temperate regions
family terebellidae;marine burrowing or tube-forming polychete worms usually having long thick bodies
neofiber;round-tailed muskrat
esox;type and only genus of the family esocidae
canavalia;herbs or woody vines of mainly american tropics and subtropics
caesalpinia;small spiny tropical trees or shrubs. includes the small genus or subgenus poinciana
musca;type genus of the muscidae: houseflies
volvariaceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order agaricales
genus proconsul;genus of extinct primitive african miocene primates. sometimes considered a subgenus of dryopithecus
aethionema;old world genus of the family cruciferae
family dipsacaceae;chiefly southern european herbs with flowers usually in dense cymose heads
myrcia;a genus of tropical american trees and shrubs of the myrtle family
ailurus;lesser pandas
delphinapterus;white whale
genus accipiter;type genus of the family accipitridae
genus iguana;type genus of the iguanidae
genus anguis;type genus of the anguidae: blindworms
genus cynips;type genus of the cynipidae: gall wasps
genus bryum;type genus of the bryaceae: mosses distinguished by mostly erect and tufted gametophytes and symmetrical short-necked capsules
genus lycium;deciduous and evergreen shrubs often spiny. cosmopolitan in temperate and subtropical regions
subclass teleostei;large diverse group of bony fishes. includes most living species
genus passiflora;type genus of the passifloraceae
gelechia;type genus of the gelechiidae: pink bollworms
genus rhinoceros;type genus of the rhinocerotidae
panonychus;a genus of tetranychidae
antheropeas;small genus of north american herbs often included in genus eriophyllum
kinosternidae;mud turtles. musk turtles
mignonette family;mainly mediterranean herbs: mignonette
class cyanobacteria;photosynthetic bacteria found in fresh and salt water, having chlorophyll a and phycobilins. once thought to be algae: blue-green algae
genus abramis;european fishes
bennettitales;fossil gymnospermous plants of the carboniferous
class archiannelida;a class of annelida
polyodontidae;paddlefishes
aegilops;goat grass
epinephelus;genus of groupers or sea bass
genus armadillidium;type genus of the armadillidiidae
adelges;type genus of the adelgidae: plant lice
hemerocallis;east asian rhizomatous clump-forming perennial herbs having flowers on long leafless stalks. cosmopolitan in cultivation: day lilies. sometimes placed in subfamily hemerocallidaceae
schistosomatidae;a family of trematoda
caprifoliaceae;shrubs and small trees and woody vines
genus candida;a genus of yeastlike imperfect fungi. sometimes included in genus monilia of the family moniliaceae
boletellus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family boletaceae
genus chinchilla;type genus of the chinchillidae
genus oedogonium;type genus of oedogoniaceae. freshwater green algae having long unbranched filaments. usually free-floating when mature
groenlandia;a monocotyledonous genus of the family potamogetonaceae
genus geochelone;giant tortoises
aletris;small genus of bitter-rooted herbs of eastern north america and asia. sometimes placed in family melanthiaceae
centrarchidae;sunfish family
rocky mountain maple;small maple of northwestern north america
genus cichorium;chicory
priacanthus;type genus of the priacanthidae
genus ensete;old world tropical herbs: abyssinian bananas
agonidae;poachers
genus sarcobatus;1 species: greasewood
genus chiococca;shrubs of tropical and subtropical new world
euphausiacea;small commonly luminescent crustaceans. important element of marine plankton: krill
genus millettia;genus of trees and shrubs of the old world tropics
ursus;type genus of ursidae: brown bears. in some classifications genus ursus includes all bears
family phallaceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order phallales and comprising the true stinkhorns
order foraminifera;foraminifers
crustacea;class of mandibulate arthropods including: lobsters. crabs. shrimps. woodlice. barnacles. decapods. water fleas
chlorophoneus;a genus of malaconotinae
athrotaxis;a genus of athrotaxes
order alismales;an order of aquatic monocotyledonous herbaceous plants
cyclopes;only the silky anteater
genus pachyrhizus;small genus of tropical vines having tuberous roots
brasenia;alternatively, a member of the family nymphaeaceae
electrophoridae;small family comprising the electric eels
zebrawood family;mostly tropical climbing shrubs or small trees. closely related to leguminosae
alcedo;type genus of the alcedinidae
calliphoridae;blowflies
genus saiga;eurasian antelopes: saigas
genus montia;small genus of densely tufted annual herbs. north temperate regions and south america and tropical africa and asia
hirudinea;hermaphroditic aquatic or terrestrial or parasitic annelids
elateridae;click beetles and certain fireflies
tubercularia;type genus of the tuberculariaceae. fungi with nodules of red or pink conidia. some cause diebacks of woody plants
family cecidomyidae;gall midges
family dicranaceae;mosses having costate leaves and long-stalked capsules with cleft peristome
mustard family;plants with four-petaled flowers
family araliaceae;mostly tropical trees and shrubs and lianas: ginseng. hedera
zygnema;type genus of the family zygnemataceae
papaverales;an order of dicotyledonous plants
genus chlorococcum;type genus of chlorococcales. unicellular green algae occurring singly or in a layer on soil or damp rock
leptoptilus;adjutant birds and marabous
chordospartium;2 species of small new zealand trees: weeping tree broom. endangered
chloranthaceae;small family of tropical herbs and shrubs and trees
coccothraustes;large finches
family ulvaceae;thin flat or tubular green algae
scaphiopus;new world spadefoot toads
family rajidae;bottom-dwelling tropical rays: skates
pyrausta;moths whose larvae are corn borers
genus sivapithecus;extinct primates. lower pliocene
genus hypoxis;small plants that resemble amaryllis and that grow from a corm and bear flowers on a leafless stalk. sometimes classified as member of the family amaryllidaceae: star grass
globicephala;pilot whales
genus nycticebus;a genus of lorisidae
alismatidae;one of four subclasses or superorders of monocotyledones. comprises about 500 species in 14 families of aquatic and semi-aquatic herbs
sabal;american dwarf fan palms
elymus;tall tufted perennial grasses (such as lyme grass or wild rye)
barn grass;a coarse annual panic grass. a cosmopolitan weed. occasionally used for hay or grazing
hymenaea;genus of tropical american timber trees
family cryptocercidae;a family of blattodea
koellia;american mountain mint
genus sitophylus;a genus of bruchidae
genus corchorus;widely distributed genus of tropical herbs or subshrubs. especially asia
phoenix;a large monocotyledonous genus of pinnate-leaved palms found in asia and africa
genus porcellio;old world genus of isopod crustaceans
family allioniaceae;a family of flowering plants of the order caryophyllales
cycad family;ancient palmlike plants closely related to ferns in that fertilization is by means of spermatozoids
genus ceratosaurus;primitive saurischian carnivorous dinosaurs
medinilla;tropical old world ornamental evergreen shrubs having fleshy leaves and large panicles of white pink flowers
family stenopelmatidae;long-horned grasshoppers
silver maple;a common north american maple tree. 5-lobed leaves are light green above and silvery white beneath. source of hard close-grained but brittle light-brown wood
dogbane family;chiefly tropical trees or shrubs or herbs having milky juice and often showy flowers. many are sources of drugs
horneophyton;devonian fossil plant considered one of the earliest forms of vascular land plants. similar to genus rhynia but smaller
genus bison;sometimes considered a subgenus of genus bos: american buffalo
genus inachis;a genus of nymphalidae
haemodorum;type genus of family haemodoraceae
family trochilidae;hummingbirds
termitidae;termites
genus mycteroperca;groupers
rue family;a family of dicotyledonous plants of order geraniales. have flowers that are divide into four or five parts and usually have a strong scent
phalangium;type genus of the family phalangiidae
pentastomida;tongue worms
genus kohleria;genus of tropical american shrubs
cypripedium;genus of chiefly american perennial leafy-stemmed orchids: lady's slippers. sometimes includes species of genus paphiopedilum
family boletaceae;family of pore-bearing fleshy fungi having the spores easily separating from the cup and often from each other
genus cakile;small genus of succulent annual herbs found on sandy shores of north america and europe
jassidae;family of small leafhoppers coextensive with the cicadellidae and not distinguished from it in some classifications
ruptiliocarpon;new (1993) genus of trees of central america now recognized as similar to those of genus lepidobotrys
genus lavandula;lavender
genus brugmansia;includes some plants often placed in the genus datura: angel's trumpets
genus myxine;type genus of the myxinidae (typical hagfishes)
genus tineola;webbing clothes moths
macowanites;a stout-stemmed genus of fungus belonging to the family secotiaceae having fruiting bodies that never expand completely
class aphasmidia;one of two subgroups of nematoda used in some classification systems
salamandridae;salamanders
genus reseda;old world genus of herbs having racemose flowers: mignonette. dyer's rocket
genus allionia;small genus of chiefly american herbs
family scomberesocidae;only sauries
family aphididae;small soft-bodied plant lice
boraginaceae;a widely distributed family of plants distinguished by circinate flowers and nutlike fruit
chordate family;any family in the phylum chordata
lepisosteidae;comprises the genus lepisosteus
martyniaceae;in most classifications not considered a separate family but included in the pedaliaceae
genus regalecus;type genus of the regalecidae
archaeornithes;primitive reptile-like fossil birds of the jurassic or early cretaceous
lagarostrobus;genus of dioecious evergreen trees of new zealand and tasmania. similar to genus dacrydium
genus symphoricarpos;deciduous shrubs of north america and central america and china
genus leontideus;tamarins
subclass lepidosauria;diapsid reptiles: lizards. snakes. tuataras
genus aix;wood duck and mandarin duck
genus petaurus;a genus of phalangeridae
radiolaria;marine protozoa
order spatangoida;heart-shaped sea urchins
rhinoceros family;rhinoceroses
elephas;type genus of the family elephantidae
cryptotis;least shrews
genus lithophragma;small genus of perennial herbs of the western north america
genus osmanthus;widely distributed genus of evergreen shrubs or trees of southern united states and middle east and china and japan
genus austrotaxus;a gymnosperm genus having one species: new caledonian yew
order tetraodontiformes;boxfishes. filefishes. globefishes. ocean sunfishes. triggerfishes. puffers
phylum rotifera;a phylum including: rotifers
lobipes;a genus of phalaropidae
genus hippotragus;sable antelopes
genus sarcocystis;chief genus of the order sarcosporidia
dicranales;widely distributed order of mosses with erect gametophores and sporophytes at the tips of stems
class flagellata;protozoa having flagella
myosotis;forget-me-nots. scorpion grass
gracilariidae;leaf miners
genus sphenodon;coextensive with the order rhynchocephalia: tuataras
order actinomyxidia;parasites of worms
genus echinocereus;large genus of low-growing shrubby ribbed cacti of mexico and southwestern united states
diacalpa;one species: delicate fern of foothills of himalayas
hirudo;type genus of the family hirudinidae
genus dicranopteris;terrestrial ferns of forest margin or open ground. pantropical
japanese maple;leaves deeply incised and bright red in autumn. japan
scleranthus;small genus of old world weedy prostrate annuals: knawel
tineidae;clothes moths
potoroinae;rat kangaroos
isoptera;order of social insects that live in colonies, including: termites. often placed in subclass exopterygota
wood sorrel family;a family of widely distributed herbs of the order geraniales. have compound leaves and pentamerous flowers
genus ardea;type genus of the ardeidae: large new and old world herons
phacochoerus;warthogs
pieris;decorative evergreen shrubs of woody vines
genus celosia;annual or perennial herbs or vines of tropical and subtropical america and asia and africa
family cestidae;coextensive with the order cestida. ctenophores having a greatly flattened and elongated body
caricaceae;trees native to tropical america and africa with milky juice and large palmately lobed leaves
pollachius;pollack
genus chilomastix;flagellates parasitic in intestines of vertebrates including humans
subfamily sterninae;terns
family potamogalidae;otter shrews
bitter pea;any of several spiny shrubs of the genus daviesia having yellow flowers and triangular seeds. australia
genus bartramia;a genus of scolopacidae
class aves;birds
bryophyta;a division of nonflowering plants characterized by rhizoids rather than true roots and having little or no organized vascular tissue and showing alternation of generations between gamete-bearing forms and spore-bearing forms. comprises true mosses (bryopsida) and liverworts (hepaticopsida) and hornworts (anthoceropsida)
ephestia;small moths whose larvae spin silken tunnels and feed on stored food products
hamamelid dicot family;family of mostly woody dicotyledonous flowering plants with flowers often unisexual and often borne in catkins
family filariidae;threadlike roundworms
suborder megachiroptera;fruit bats
indigofera;genus of tropical herbs and shrubs having odd-pinnate leaves and spurred flowers in long racemes or spikes
family juglandaceae;trees having usually edible nuts: butternuts. walnuts. hickories. pecans
stokesia;1 species: stokes' aster
indriidae;a family of lemuroidea
genus heterodon;a genus of small colubrid snakes containing the north american hognose snakes
heath family;heathers
verbascum;genus of coarse herbs and subshrubs mostly with woolly leaves
pelecanus;type genus of the pelecanidae
equus;type genus of the equidae: only surviving genus of the family equidae
genus archidiskidon;a genus of elephantidae
genus agonus;type genus of the agonidae
family phoeniculidae;wood hoopoes
coelenterata;hydras. polyps. jellyfishes. sea anemones. corals
microchiroptera;most of the bats in the world. all bats except fruit bats insectivorous bats
genus reticulitermes;includes species highly destructive to structures and living trees
genus polioptila;new world gnatcatchers
trichophaga;carpet moths
genus lythrum;loosestrife
genus bloomeria;small genus of bulbous perennial herbs of southwestern united states and mexico. sometimes placed in family alliaceae
genus amygdalus;used in former classifications for peach and almond trees which are now included in genus prunus
gymnospermae;plants having naked seeds not enclosed in an ovary. in some systems considered a class (gymnospermae) and in others a division (gymnospermophyta). comprises three subdivisions (or classes): cycadophytina (class cycadopsida) and gnetophytina (class gnetopsida) and coniferophytina (class coniferopsida). in some classifications the coniferophytina are divided into three groups: pinophytina (class pinopsida) and ginkgophytina (class ginkgopsida) and taxophytina (class taxopsida)
antennariidae;frogfishes. tropical spiny-finned marine fishes having large nearly vertical mouths. related to toadfishes and anglers
genus darlingtonia;one species: california pitcher plant
family haemoproteidae;bird parasites
bradypus;type genus of the bradypodidae: three-toed sloths
genus sparmannia;small genus of tropical african shrubs
genus khaya;african mahogany trees
brevicipitidae;narrow-mouthed toads and sheep frogs. some burrow and some are arboreal. found worldwide
genus taraxacum;an asterid dicot genus of the family compositae including dandelions
family acrididae;short-horned grasshoppers. true locusts
nostocaceae;blue-green algae
genus vicia;widely distributed genus of annual or perennial and often climbing herbs
orycteropodidae;aardvarks
class musci;true mosses: bryophytes having leafy rather than thalloid gametophytes: comprises orders andreaeales. bryales. dicranales. eubryales. sphagnales
genus dactyloctenium;a monocotyledonous genus of the family gramineae
subclass zoomastigina;in some classifications considered a phylum of the kingdom protista. holozoic or saprozoic flagellates
genus muscari;sometimes placed in family hyacinthaceae
family cistaceae;shrubs or woody herbs of temperate regions especially mediterranean
asterid dicot family;family of more or less advanced dicotyledonous herbs and some trees and shrubs
genus empetrum;crowberries
geophilus;type genus of the geophilidae: cosmopolitan genus of centipedes sometimes called earwigs
suborder mysticeti;baleen whales: right whales. rorquals. blue whales. humpbacks
family syngnathidae;pipefishes
genus tabernaemontana;evergreen tropical trees and shrubs with milky sap
delphinidae;dolphins
lasiurus;a genus of vespertilionidae
curcuma;tropical asiatic perennial herbs
helotium;type genus of the helotiaceae
ulmus;type genus of family ulmaceae. deciduous trees having simple serrate leaves. widely distributed in temperate regions
genus eleutherodactylus;completely terrestrial robber frogs
ceratophyllaceae;coextensive with the genus ceratophyllum: hornworts
genus sphyraena;type and sole genus of the sphyraenidae: barracuda
genus ananas;a genus of tropical american plants have sword-shaped leaves and a fleshy compound fruits composed of the fruits of several flowers (such as pineapples)
genus tamarindus;widely cultivated tropical trees originally of africa
platycephalidae;scorpaenoid flatheads
genus esox;type and only genus of the family esocidae
helicteres;genus of shrubs and small trees of tropical america and asia having cylindrical fruits spirally twisted around one another
division rhodophyta;lower plants. mostly marine and littoral eukaryotic algae
genus saxicola;old world chats
ophioglossum;the type genus of the fern family ophioglossaceae
genus periophthalmus;a genus of gobiidae
genus gyps;a genus of accipitridae
melanoplus;new world migratory locusts and common american grasshoppers
blarina;shrews
hippocampus;seahorses
plasmodiidae;malaria parasites
felidae;cats. wildcats. lions. leopards. cheetahs. saber-toothed tigers
family ramphastidae;toucans
class tiliomycetes;category used in some systems to comprise the two orders ustilaginales (smuts) and uredinales (rusts)
old witchgrass;north american grass with slender brushy panicles. often a weed on cultivated land
genus crotaphytus;collard lizards
moraceae;trees or shrubs having a milky juice. in some classifications includes genus cannabis
suborder gorgonacea;red corals and sea fans
genus xylopia;tropical evergreen trees or shrubs. chiefly african
doryopteris;small to medium tropical tufted ferns. sometimes placed in family adiantaceae
blandfordia;small species of tuberous-rooted australian perennial herbs
genus alpinia;perennial rhizomatous herbs of asia and australia and polynesia having ginger-scented rhizomes
cinnamomum;asiatic and australian aromatic trees and shrubs
soapberry family;chiefly tropical new and old world deciduous and evergreen trees and shrubs bearing leathery drupes with yellow translucent flesh. most plants produce toxic saponins
polybotria;tropical american ferns. usually terrestrial when young but scandent later
coleoptera;beetles
genus cerastes;horned vipers
metatheria;pouched animals
order aphyllophorales;includes chiefly saprophytic fungi typically with shelflike bodies. sometimes placed in class hymenomycetes or included in agaricales
halocarpus;dioecious trees or shrubs of new zealand. similar in habit to dacrydium
parthenocissus;woody vines having disklike tips on the tendrils
engraulis;type genus of the family engraulidae
hernaria;low-growing old world herbs with minute bright green leaves
umbellales;plants having umbels or corymbs of uniovulate flowers. includes the umbelliferae (chiefly herbs) and cornaceae (chiefly trees or shrubs)
bombyliidae;bee flies
ustilaginoidea;genus of imperfect fungi causing smutlike diseases
picariae;term used in some classifications as nearly equivalent to the order coraciiformes
genus serranus;type genus of the serranidae: mostly small pacific sea basses
order phasmatodea;in some classifications considered a suborder of orthoptera: stick insects. leaf insects
family ericaceae;heathers
rachycentridae;family of pelagic fishes containing solely the cobia
trollius;perennial herbs of north temperate regions: globeflowers
genus boykinia;genus of perennial rhizomatous herbs with flowers in panicles. north america. japan
peronosporales;order of chiefly parasitic lower fungi: albuginaceae and peronosporaceae and pythiaceae
baphia;small genus of shrubs and lianas and trees of africa and madagascar
order agaricales;typical gilled mushrooms belonging to the subdivision basidiomycota
dryadella;comprises tropical american species usually placed in genus masdevallia: very dwarf plants having short tufted and usually unifoliate stems with usually solitary flowers
pelycosauria;edaphosaurus. dimetrodon
ratitae;used in former classifications to include all ratite bird orders
genus centropomus;type genus of the centropomidae: snooks
plumbaginales;coextensive with the family_plumbaginaceae. usually included in order primulales
genus cliftonia;1 species: titi
subdivision deuteromycotina;large and heterogeneous form division of fungi comprising forms for which no sexually reproductive stage is known: orders sphaeropsidales. melanconiales. moniliales. mycelia_sterilia
cricetidae;mostly small new world rodents including new world mice and lemmings and voles and hamsters
spikemoss;any of numerous fern allies of the genus selaginella
genus chilomycterus;burrfishes
family pteridaceae;one of a number of families into which the family polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems. pteridaceae is itself in turn sometimes subdivided into the families actiniopteridaceae. adiantaceae. cryptogrammataceae. includes genera acrostichum. adiantopsis. adiantum. anogramma. bommeria. cheilanthes. coniogramme. doryopteris. gymnopteris. hemionitis. jamesonia. paraceterach. pellaea. pityrogramma. pteris. ptilopteris
ardisia;tropical evergreen subshrubs (some climbers) to trees of asia and australasia to americas
family otididae;bustards
coluber;racers
peridiniidae;marine and freshwater dinoflagellates
todus;type genus of the todidae
genus silene;large widely distributed genus of plants having mostly showy flowers of various colors: campion. catchfly
crex;corncrakes
heuchera;genus of north american herbs with basal cordate or orbicular leaves and small panicled flowers
family aizoaceae;succulent herbs or small shrubs mostly of south africa but also new zealand and north america: carpetweeds. fig marigolds
charina;boas of western north america
lathyrus;genus of climbing herbs of old world and temperate north and south america: vetchling. wild pea
family rhizobiaceae;a small family of rod-shaped bacteria
pedionomus;plain wanderer
genus perisoreus;canada jays
anacardiaceae;the cashew family. trees and shrubs and vines having resinous (sometimes poisonous) juice. includes cashew and mango and pistachio and poison ivy and sumac
family myxophyceae;former terms for cyanophyceae
tortricidae;leaf rollers and codling moths
calamintha;calamint
amphibian family;any family of amphibians
genus mesembryanthemum;south african annual or biennial plants having flowers that open only in bright sunlight
plethodontidae;small mostly terrestrial new world salamanders having neither lungs nor gills as adults
family megapodiidae;megapodes
subclass commelinidae;one of four subclasses or superorders of monocotyledones. comprises about 19,000 species in 25 families of mostly terrestrial herbs especially of moist places including: cyperaceae. gramineae. bromeliaceae. and zingiberaceae
ephemerida;mayflies
genus lampris;type genus of the lampridae
gelsemium;evergreen twining shrubs of americas and southeastern asia
lysiloma;small genus of tropical american trees and shrubs with pinnate leaves and flat straight pods
eliomys;lerots
genus calidris;a genus of scolopacidae
acokanthera;small genus of trees and shrubs containing strongly toxic cardiac glycosides. arabia to africa
genus silurus;type genus of the siluridae: catfishes
phoenicophorium;latanier palm
genus scolopax;type of the scolopacidae: old world woodcocks
egeria;small genus of dioecious tropical aquatic plants
cuculiformes;cuckoos. touracos. etc.
genus gloriosa;sometimes placed in family colchicaceae. one species: glory lily
genus adonis;annual or perennial herbs
hydnocarpus;medium to large indo-malayan trees
class gastromycetes;fungi in which the hymenium is enclosed until after spores have matured: puffballs. earth stars. stinkhorn fungi
dracaena;often cultivated for the decorative foliage
genus rhynia;type genus of the rhyniaceae. small leafless dichotomously branching fossil plants with terminal sporangia and smooth branching rhizomes
genus alytes;midwife toads
nopalea;a genus of the cactus family with scarlet flowers
genus xenosaurus;type and sole genus of xenosauridae: slender-bodied mexican lizards having the upper surface covered with tiny granules and tubercles
family chelonidae;green turtles. hawksbills
geomyidae;north american pocket gophers
family aristolochiaceae;birthworts. wild ginger
xenicus;type genus for the xenicidae
order ophioglossales;coextensive with the family ophioglossaceae
chalcostigma;thornbills
eucarya;quandong trees
genus chelidonium;1 species: greater celandine
phyllidae;leaf insects
holocentrus;type genus of the family holocentridae. squirrelfishes
family cypraeidae;family of marine gastropods comprising the cowries
family pluteaceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order agaricales
rockrose family;shrubs or woody herbs of temperate regions especially mediterranean
genus andrena;a solitary burrowing short-tongued bee
genus euryale;basket stars
platanaceae;coextensive with the genus platanus: plane trees
genus begonia;large genus of tropical succulent plants widely cultivated
kalotermitidae;primitive termites of warm regions
moosewood;maple of eastern north america with striped bard and large 2-lobed leaves clear yellow in autumn
saturnia;type genus of the saturniidae: emperor moth
morus;type genus of the moraceae: mulberries
genus phylloscopus;warblers
genus tamias;chipmunks of eastern north america
grus;type genus of the gruidae: typical cranes
genus ascaridia;roundworm having a preanal sucker
genus cyclops;copepod water fleas
turdinae;alternative classification for the thrushes
genus prosopium;whitefishes
family dasyurinae;dasyures. native cats. pouched mice. banded_anteaters. tasmanian devils
aframomum;an african genus of plants of the family zingiberaceae
genus dombeya;genus of african shrubs or small trees
equisetaceae;sole surviving family of the equisetales: fern allies
family characeae;green algae superficially resembling horsetail ferns: stoneworts
family actinomycetacaea;filamentous anaerobic bacteria
myxobacterales;an order of higher bacteria
genus fortunella;small genus of shrubs native to south china producing small ovoid orangelike fruits: kumquats
oceanites;a genus of hydrobatidae
family isoetaceae;quillworts. coextensive with the genus isoetes
picumnus;a genus of picidae
mastotermes;primitive genus of termites. mostly extinct. sometimes considered the most primitive isoptera
genus philophylla;leaf miners
kobus;african antelopes: waterbucks
genus polyborus;a genus of falconidae
genus saussurea;genus of herbs of temperate and cool regions of eurasia
physeter;type genus of the physeteridae
mullus;type genus of the mullidae: goatfishes
genus polanisia;widely distributed herbs having palmate leaves and creamy white to or pink to magenta flowers with many stamens of unequal length
genus peltiphyllum;1 species
sylviinae;alternative classification for the old world warblers
genus haematoxylum;small genus of tropical american spiny bushy shrubs or trees
spirodela;minute aquatic herbs floating on the water surface consisting of a shiny leaflike frond and 2-21 roots
genus dactylopterus;a genus of dactylopteridae
genus aphyllanthes;1 species. small fibrous-rooted perennial with rushlike foliage and deep blue flowers. sometimes placed in its own family aphyllanthaceae
lepas;type genus of the family lepadidae
genus myroxylon;a genus of tropical american trees having pinnate leaves and white flowers
genus spheniscus;type genus of the spheniscidae: jackass penguins
genus gynura;genus of old world tropical herbs: velvet plants
genus parietaria;small genus of stingless herbs
family bombacaceae;tropical trees with large dry or fleshy fruit containing usually woolly seeds
genus passer;type genus of the passeridae
aepyceros;african antelopes: impalas
genus berteroa;hoary alyssum
genus gymnadenia;small genus of terrestrial orchids of north america and temperate eurasia
graminales;grasses. sedges. rushes
genus rana;type genus of the ranidae
genus planococcus;a genus of pseudococcidae
ambystomatidae;new world salamanders
lepidocybium;a genus of gempylidae
infusoria;in some recent classifications, coextensive with the ciliata: minute organisms found in decomposing infusions of organic matter
family mytilidae;marine mussels
kinosternon;type genus of the kinosternidae
odontaspididae;sand sharks. in some classifications coextensive with family carcharhinidae
superfamily aphidoidea;plant lice
lamiaceae;the mints: aromatic herbs and shrubs having flowers resembling the lips of a mouth and four-lobed ovaries yielding four one-seeded nutlets and including thyme. sage. rosemary
genus hyoscyamus;genus of poisonous herbs: henbane
genus conium;small genus of highly toxic biennials: hemlock
genus sphecotheres;a genus of old world orioles
bucerotidae;hornbills
family rhizophoraceae;trees and shrubs that usually form dense jungles along tropical seacoasts
family corylaceae;used in some classification systems for the genus corylus
superorder;(biology) a taxonomic group ranking above an order and below a class or subclass
conopodium;a genus of dicotyledonous plants of the family umbelliferae
genus taxodium;bald cypress. swamp cypress
batrachoseps;slender salamanders
family hydnaceae;tooth_fungi
genus agaricus;type genus of agaricaceae. gill fungi having brown spores and including several edible species
genus ballota;perennial herbs or subshrubs of especially mediterranean area: black horehound
phallales;order of fungi comprising the stinkhorns and related forms whose mature hymenium is slimy and fetid. sometimes placed in subclass homobasidiomycetes
salix;a large and widespread genus varying in size from small shrubs to large trees: willows
great maple;eurasian maple tree with pale gray bark that peels in flakes like that of a sycamore tree. leaves with five ovate lobes yellow in autumn
calamus;a genus of sparidae
genus iguanodon;type genus of the iguanodontidae
lampropeltis;king snakes and milk snakes
cercocebus;mangabeys
genus thevetia;genus of poisonous tropical american evergreen shrubs and trees having entire leaves and large cymose flowers
family haliotidae;abalones
genus dipogon;1 species: australian pea
erethizontidae;new world arboreal porcupines
genus chaetodipterus;a genus of ephippidae
lomariopsidaceae;small family of usually scandent ferns: genera bolbitis. lomagramma
mayacaceae;a monocotyledonous family of bog plants of order xyridales
order conodonta;extinct order of primitive vertebrates. the precise taxonomy is not clear. in some classifications considered a separate phylum
colchicaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted: colchicum. gloriosa
order oleales;coextensive with the family oleaceae. in some classifications included in the order gentianales
family bucconidae;puffbirds
masticophis;whipsnakes
suborder blennioidea;blennies. butterfishes. gunnels
genus opisthocomus;type genus of the opisthocomidae: hoatzins
genus gentianella;genus of herbs with flowers that resemble gentian. in some classifications included in genus gentiana
genus crotophaga;ani
gasteropoda;snails and slugs and their relatives
crinoidea;sea lilies
anagasta;moth whose larvae are flour moths
crocodylidae;true crocodiles
silphium;tall north american perennial herbs
odontaspis;type and sole genus of carchariidae: sand sharks
family clupeidae;herrings. shad. sardines. etc.
genus staurikosaurus;primitive ornithiscian dinosaur found in brazil
genus hexalectris;a monocotyledonous genus of the family orchidaceae
genus centunculus;a dicotyledonous genus of the family primulaceae
pterostylis;genus of terrestrial orchids of australia and new zealand and western pacific
genus cryptobranchus;type genus of the cryptobranchidae
genus anomia;type genus of the family anomiidae: saddle oysters
genus toxotes;type genus of the toxotidae
lanthanotus;1 species
plectomycetes;class of fungi in which the fruiting body is a cleistothecium (it releases spores only on decay or disintegration)
upupa;type genus of the upupidae
genus pineus;a genus of adelgidae
amphisbaena;type genus of the amphisbaenidae
theaceae;a family of trees and shrubs of the order parietales
genus schistosoma;type genus of the family schistosomatidae: blood flukes
var.;(biology) a group of organisms within a species that differ in trivial ways from similar groups. 'a new strain of microorganisms'
family gasterosteidae;sticklebacks
cestrum;genus of fragrant tropical american shrubs
order tinamiformes;coextensive with the family tinamidae
gymnophiona;an order of amphibians including caecilians (in former classifications it was called order apoda)
genus sagitta;chief genus of chaetognatha including the largest arrowworms
atherinidae;small spiny-finned fishes of both salt and fresh water
laminaria;type genus of the family laminariaceae: perennial brown kelps
genus dipus;type genus of the dipodidae. typical jerboas having three toes on each hind food
genus fundulus;killifish
loasa family;family of bristly hairy sometimes climbing plants. america and africa and southern arabia
genus stropharia;genus of brown-spored gill fungi closely related to agaricus. here placed in its own family strophariaceae
genus tridacna;type genus of the family tridacnidae: giant clams
genus astreus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family geastraceae
genus lepus;type genus of the leporidae: hares
xenopus;african clawed frog. in some classifications made the type genus of a separate family xenopodidae
genus rorippa;annual and perennial herbs of damp habitats. cosmopolitan except antarctica
iridoprocne;a genus of hirundinidae
genus buxus;type genus of the buxaceae
ordler taxales;coextensive with the family taxaceae: yews
genus sesamum;tropical african and indian herbs
seriphidium;woody plants grown chiefly for their silver or gray and often aromatic foliage. formerly included in the genus artemisia
genus fistulina;fungi having each pore separate though crowded
genus phragmipedium;genus of tropical american orchid species often included in genus cypripedium or paphiopedilum and selenipedium: lady_slippers
genus neurospora;genus of fungi with black perithecia used extensively in genetic research. includes some forms with orange spore masses that cause severe damage in bakeries
family secotiaceae;a family of fungi that have a stalk and cap and a wrinkled mass of tissue (the gleba) where spores are produced. are often dismissed as misshapen forms of other fungi
family cladoniaceae;a family of lichens
genus cephalopterus;a genus of cotingidae
pitcher plant family;insectivorous plants
alopius;type genus of the family alopiidae. in some classifications considered a genus of the family lamnidae
genus sorbus;a genus of shrubs or trees of the family rocaceae having feathery leaves
family podicipedidae;coextensive with the order podicipitiformes
dryas;mountain avens
family cornaceae;a rosid dicot family of the order umbellales including: genera aucuba. cornus. corokia. curtisia. griselinia. helwingia
iris family;large family of usually perennial geophytic herbs with rizomes or corms or bulbs
pyralidae;bee moths. corn borers. flour moths
termes;type genus of the termitidae
glycine;genus of asiatic erect or sprawling herbs: soya bean
family nidulariaceae;bird's-nest fungi
sonchus;sow thistles
subfamily bovinae;term not used technically. essentially coextensive with genus bos: cattle. buffalo. and sometimes includes kudu
genus setaria;annual or perennial grasses of warm regions: bristlegrasses
bidens;bur marigolds
genus microdipodops;kangaroo mice
family phalacrocoracidae;cormorants
genus chenopodium;goosefoot. pigweed
fischer s slime mushroom;a type of slime mushroom
genus laurus;small evergreen trees or shrubs with aromatic leaves
family dematiaceae;family of imperfect mushrooms having dark-colored hyphae or conidia
amphipoda;small flat-bodied semi-terrestrial crustaceans: whale lice. sand-hoppers. skeleton shrimp
family elaeocarpaceae;genus of trees and shrubs widely distributed in warm regions some yielding useful timber. in some classifications included in the family santalaceae
chrysophyllum;tropical american evergreen trees or shrubs
family scarabaeidae;scarab or dung beetles
genus eimeria;type genus of the family eimeriidae. includes serious pathogens
genus sinornis;a genus of fossil birds
genus isatis;old world genus of annual to perennial herbs: woad
solenidae;razor clams
genus atherurus;a genus of hystricidae
trigonella;old world genus of frequently aromatic herbs
cyanophyceae;photosynthetic bacteria found in fresh and salt water, having chlorophyll a and phycobilins. once thought to be algae: blue-green algae
family pyralididae;bee moths. corn borers. flour moths
boselaphus;indian antelopes: nilgais
class ophiuroidea;brittle stars and basket stars
santalaceae;chiefly tropical herbs or shrubs or trees bearing nuts or one-seeded fruit
subdivision basidiomycota;comprises fungi bearing the spores on a basidium: gasteromycetes (puffballs). tiliomycetes (comprising the orders ustilaginales (smuts) and uredinales (rusts)). hymenomycetes (mushrums. toadstools. agarics. bracket fungi). in some classification systems considered a division of kingdom fungi
family momotidae;a family of birds of the order coraciiformes
genus mangifera;tropical tree native to asia bearing fleshy fruit
genus jaculus;jerboas
sinningia;genus of perennial tuberous herbs and shrubs of central and south america
melampsora;rusts having sessile one-celled teliospores in a single layer
homogyne;small genus of low perennial herbs of montane europe. in some classifications included in genus tussilago
cortinariaceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order agaricales
genus penicillium;genus of fungi commonly growing as green or blue molds on decaying food. used in making cheese and as a source of penicillin
connarus;large genus of tropical trees and shrubs. type genus of the connaraceae
peripatopsis;type genus of peripatopsidae. onychophorans of chiefly asiatic and african tropical regions
phalangeridae;phalangers. koalas
simaroubaceae;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs with bitter bark having dry usually one-seeded winged fruit
rheiformes;a ratite bird order: birds intermediate in characteristics between ostriches and emus: recent and extinct rheas
family violaceae;genera viola. hybanthus. hymenanthera. melicytus
psophia;type genus of the psophiidae: trumpeters
boehmeria;false nettle
muhlenbergia;a genus of grasses of the family gramineae grown in america and asia
genus diphylla;vampire bats
cicindelidae;tiger beetles
genus physaria;small genus of western north american herbs similar to lesquerella: bladderpods
family cryptobranchidae;large aquatic salamanders: hellbenders. giant salamanders
strelitzia family;woody plants with erect stems of tropical south america and south africa and madagascar. in some classifications included in the family musaceae
genus rutilus;roaches
fistularia;type genus of the family fistulariidae
genus troglodytes;type genus of the troglodytidae
erythroxylum;a large genus of south american shrubs and small trees of the family erythroxylaceae
lacerta;type genus of the lacertidae
fissurellidae;marine limpets
leptotyphlops;blind snakes of asia and africa and americas
chordate genus;any genus in the phylum chordata
isuridae;in some classifications another name for the family lamnidae
fumariaceae;erect or climbing herbs of the northern hemisphere and southern africa: bleeding heart. dutchman's_breeches. fumitory. squirrel corn
genus aegyptopithecus;a genus of hominoidea
fenusa;birch leaf miner
lygodium;chiefly tropical climbing ferns
genus chlamydomonas;type genus of the chlamydomonadaceae. solitary doubly-flagellated plant-like algae common in fresh water and damp soil. multiply freely. often a pest around filtration plants
schizopoda;in former classifications a division of malacostraca. superseded by the orders mysidacea and euphausiacea
laniidae;shrikes
genus delphinium;large genus of chiefly perennial erect branching herbs of north temperate regions some poisonous
liliid monocot genus;genus of monocotyledonous plants comprising mostly herbs having usually petaloid sepals and petals and compound pistils
helicidae;land snails including the common edible snail and some pests
genus carassius;goldfish
genus scincus;type genus of scincidae
genus xiphias;type genus of the xiphiidae
genus dovyalis;small genus of sometimes spiny shrubs or small trees. africa. india. sri lanka
screw pine family;family of woody plants of the order pandanales including: pandanus. freycinetia
order marattiales;lower ferns coextensive with the family marattiaceae
mytilus;type genus of the family mytilidae: smooth-shelled marine mussels
order rubiales;an order of dicotyledonous plants of the subclass asteridae. have opposite leaves and an inferior compound ovary
reptantia;lobsters. crabs
hydrophyllum;waterleaf
xenorhyncus;east indian and australian storks
genus myristica;type genus of myristicaceae. tropical asian evergreen trees with small white or yellow flowers followed by fleshy fruits
tenrecidae;tenrecs and extinct related forms
artiodactyla;an order of hooved mammals of the subclass eutheria (including pigs and peccaries and hippopotami and members of the suborder ruminantia) having an even number of functional toes
theropoda;carnivorous saurischian dinosaurs with short forelimbs. jurassic and cretaceous
gramineae;the grasses: chiefly herbaceous but some woody plants including cereals. bamboo. reeds. sugar cane
family mastotermitidae;primitive termites
chorizema;genus of australian twining vines and small shrubs: flame peas
hibbertia;evergreen heathlike or scandent shrubs of madagascar. australasia. polynesia
hudsonia;small evergreen subshrubs of north america
st john s wort family;widely distributed family of chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines that produce oils and resins and some usable timber
melastoma;type genus of melastomataceae. asiatic shrubs with leathery leaves and large purple flowers followed by edible fleshy black berries
family gerreidae;mojarras
brachyura;an order of crustaceans (including true crabs) having a reduced abdomen folded against the ventral surface
streptopelia risoria;grayish old world turtledove with a black band around the neck. often caged
ctenizidae;large burrowing spiders
genus oryza;rice
pinicola;a genus of fringillidae
cathartes;type genus of the cathartidae: turkey vultures
rudbeckia;north american perennial herbs with showy cone-shaped flower heads
acanthoscelides;a genus of bruchidae
ichneumon;north african mongoose. in ancient times thought to devour crocodile eggs
family sarraceniaceae;insectivorous plants
genus sterna;a genus of sterninae
class dicotyledonae;comprising seed plants that produce an embryo with paired cotyledons and net-veined leaves. divided into six (not always well distinguished) subclasses (or superorders): magnoliidae and hamamelidae (considered primitive). caryophyllidae (an early and distinctive offshoot). and three more or less advanced groups: dilleniidae. rosidae. asteridae
genus neohygrophorus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family hygrophoraceae
genus psettichthys;a genus of soleidae
odonata;dragonflies and damselflies
hypochoeris;widely distributed genus of milky-juiced herbs including some cosmopolitan weeds
barberry family;shrubs or herbs
family nyssaceae;a family of dicotyledonous trees of order myrtales that includes the sour gum trees
genus carex;large genus of plants found in damp woodlands and bogs and ditches or at water margins: sedges
genus ziziphus;spiny chiefly tropical american and asiatic shrubs: jujubes
subgenus pastor;only the rose-colored starlings. in some classifications considered a separate genus
platichthys;a genus of pleuronectidae
swainsona;genus of australian herbs and subshrubs: darling peas
family pyrolaceae;evergreen herbs of temperate regions: genera pyrola. chimaphila. moneses. orthilia
genus holarrhena;genus of deciduous trees and shrubs of tropical africa and asia
genus phalaropus;type genus of the phalaropidae: phalaropes
order fagales;an order of dicotyledonous trees of the subclass hamamelidae
connochaetes;african antelopes: gnus
ptilocrinus;sea lilies
class filicinae;ferns
genus blighia;small genus of western african evergreen trees and shrubs bearing fleshy capsular three-seeded fruits edible when neither unripe nor overripe
genus lycosa;type genus of the family lycosidae
family dermochelyidae;sea turtles
common reed;tall north american reed having relative wide leaves and large plumelike panicles. widely distributed in moist areas. used for mats, screens and arrow shafts
genus toona;formerly included in genus cedrela
genus pilosella;genus of hairy perennial herbs with horizontal rhizomes and leafy or underground stolons. eurasia and north africa. often considered congeneric with hieracium
timalia;type genus of the timaliidae
genus eriosoma;woolly aphids
megachile;type genus of the megachilidae: leaf-cutting bees
genus chamaecrista;genus of tropical herbs or subshrubs having sensitive leaves and suddenly dehiscing pods. some species placed in genus cassia
apocynum;perennial herbs with small pink or white flowers
sauropterygia;extinct marine reptiles: plesiosaurs. nothosaurs
family equisetaceae;sole surviving family of the equisetales: fern allies
plant genus;a genus of plants
aspalathus;genus of south african heathlike shrubs
genus gaultheria;widely distributed genus of creeping or upright evergreen shrubs
order orthoptera;grasshoppers and locusts. crickets
genus canangium;a genus of malayan tree
genus alsophila;geometrid moths
archilochus;a genus of trochilidae
pternohyla;burrowing treefrogs
tantilla;black-headed snakes
phylum porifera;coextensive with the subkingdom parazoa: sponges
family peramelidae;bandicoots
genus pisum;small genus of variable annual eurasian vines: peas
order hemiptera;plant bugs. bedbugs. some true bugs. also includes suborders heteroptera (true bugs) and homoptera (e.g. aphids. plant lice. cicadas)
cryptotermes;genus of dry wood termites. cosmopolitan. sometimes considered a subgenus of kalotermes
chytridiaceae;a family of aquatic fungi of order chytridiales
frogbit family;simple nearly stemless freshwater aquatic plants. widely distributed
hipsurus;a genus of embiotocidae
nucifraga;nutcrackers
genus convolvulus;genus of mostly climbing or scrambling herbs and shrubs: bindweed
genus maranta;herbs of tropical america
bruchus;type genus of the bruchidae
ambrosiaceae;in some classifications considered a separate family comprising a subgroup of the compositae including the ragweeds
paradoxurus;palm civets
anseres;used in some especially older classifications. coextensive with the family anatidae
aristolochiales;plants distinguished by tubular petaloid perianth and inferior ovary: aristolochiaceae. rafflesiaceae. hydnoraceae
genus salpa;type (perhaps sole) genus of the salpidae
monocanthus;type genus of the monocanthidae
maniraptora;advanced theropods including oviraptorids and dromaeosaurs and possibly even modern birds
serranidae;marine fishes: sea basses. sea perches. groupers. jewfish
musaceae;treelike tropical asian herbs
genus chamaemelum;small genus of plants sometimes included in genus anthemis: chamomile
family nymphaeaceae;dicot aquatic plants
family chalcidae;an arthropod family including: chalcidflies
cereus;genus of much-branched treelike or shrubby cacti with pronounced ribs and rounded needlelike spines and nocturnal flowers usually white
rhinocerotidae;rhinoceroses
genus nephrolepis;small genus of tropical ferns. sometimes placed in polypodiaceae
acer campestre;shrubby eurasian maple often used as a hedge
equidae;horses. asses. zebras. extinct animals
naticidae;moonshells
genus ovis;sheep
arvicola;in some classifications considered synonymous with microtus
family capitonidae;barbets
genus junco;american finches
phalaenoptilus;a genus of caprimulgidae
primulaceae;a dicotyledonous family of the order primulales with a regular flower. widely distributed in the northern hemisphere
myrmecia;bulldog ants
actinomycetales;filamentous or rod-shaped bacteria
family caricaceae;trees native to tropical america and africa with milky juice and large palmately lobed leaves
aquifoliaceae;widely distributed shrubs and trees
dicranum;type genus of dicranaceae
peronospora;genus of destructive downy mildews
genus ayapana;genus of tropical american herbs sometimes included in genus eupatorium
genus eudyptes;rock hoppers
solanum;type genus of the solanaceae: nightshade. potato. eggplant. bittersweet
family irenidae;a family of birds of the suborder oscines
genus tetragonia;new zealand spinach
ovis;sheep
phocidae;earless seals
genus arceuthobium;genus of chiefly american plants parasitic on conifers
genus antennaria;small woolly perennial herbs having small whitish discoid flowers surrounded by a ring of club-shaped bristles
genus lysichitum;skunk cabbage
tribe synercus;cape buffalo
dama;fallow deer
subphylum pentastomida;tongue worms
order psilotales;lower vascular plants having dichotomously branched sporophyte divided into aerial shoot and rhizome and lacking true roots
family lecythidaceae;large tropical trees bearing large fruits with woody skins
genus dusicyon;crab-eating dog
genus makaira;marlins
order testudines;tortoises and turtles
coccoidea;scale insects and mealybugs
lennoaceae;family of fleshy parasitic herbs lacking green foliage and having heads of small flowers. california and mexico
meriones;a genus of cricetidae
phylum aschelminthes;unsegmented worms: roundworms. threadworms. eelworms
genus ginkgo;sole surviving genus of the ginkgoaceae
caryophylloid dicot family;family of relatively early dicotyledonous plants including mostly flowers
suborder myomorpha;true rats and mice and related rodents
embioptera;web spinners
genus pipra;type genus of the pipridae containing the typical manakins
lutrinae;subdivision not used in some classifications: otters
genus forficula;type genus of forficulidae
nothofagus;beeches of temperate southern hemisphere except africa: southern beech
naturtium family;coextensive with the genus tropaeolum
genus orycteropus;coextensive with the family orycteropodidae
family majidae;spider crabs
pteridophyta;containing all the vascular plants that do not bear seeds: ferns, horsetails, club mosses, and whisk ferns. in some classifications considered a subdivision of tracheophyta
family sciaridae;fungus gnats
centropristis;sea basses
coraciiformes;rollers. kingfishers. hornbills. hoopoes. motmots. bee_eaters. todies
norway maple;a large eurasian maple tree naturalized in north america. 5-lobed leaves yellow in autumn. cultivated in many varieties
geastraceae;a family of earthstar fungi belonging to the order lycoperdales
cyclosporeae;in more recent classifications superseded by the order fucales
dugongidae;a family of mammals of order sirenia including dugongs and steller's sea cow
family chironomidae;midges
genus ambystoma;type genus of the ambystomatidae
genus tadorna;sheldrakes
genus ephippiorhynchus;saddlebills
colaptes;a genus of picidae
elaeis;oil palms
genus eryngium;large genus of decorative plants with thistlelike flower heads. cosmopolitan in distribution
sporobolus;cosmopolitan annual and perennial grasses (as dropseed or rushgrass)
genus petromyzon;typical lampreys
order commelinales;an order of monocotyledonous herbs
family proteaceae;large family of australian and south african shrubs and trees with leathery leaves and clustered mostly tetramerous flowers. constitutes the order proteales
eurotiales;order of fungi having a closed ascocarp (cleistothecium) with the asci scattered rather than gathered into a hymenial layer
nimravus;false sabertoothed tigers
myxinoidei;hagfishes as distinguished from lampreys
aspidophoroides;alligatorfishes
genus haematopus;oystercatchers
subfamily carduelinae;used in some classifications for a subgroup of finches
corydalis;type genus of the corydalidae
exocoetidae;flying fishes. closely related to the halfbeaks
cephalopoda;octopuses. squids. cuttlefish. pearly nautilus
nettle family;a family of plants of order urticales including many nettles with stinging hairs
family tetranychidae;plant-feeding mites
hydrobates;type genus of the hydrobatidae
order pseudoscorpionida;false scorpions
neohygrophorus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family hygrophoraceae
family fouquieriaceae;small family of spiny shrubs or trees of southwestern united states
macrocephalon;maleos
genus pulsatilla;includes a group of plants that in some classifications are included in the genus anemone: pasqueflowers
cariamidae;cranelike south american wading birds
subfamily bassariscidae;in some classifications considered a separate family
genus sarda;bonitos
acer spicatum;small shrubby maple of eastern north america. scarlet in autumn
dogwood family;a rosid dicot family of the order umbellales including: genera aucuba. cornus. corokia. curtisia. griselinia. helwingia
balaenopteridae;rorquals. blue whales
genus cerapteryx;antler moths
order testacea;testacean rhizopods
bloodwort family;some genera placed in family liliaceae
rubia;type genus of the rubiaceae. old world herbs and subshrubs grown for their medicinal properties and for dye substances extracted from their roots
genus cancer;type genus of the family cancridae
genus quassia;tropical trees and shrubs with pinnate leaves and large scarlet flowers. bark is medicinal
sterculiaceae;a large family of plants of order malvales
family tremellaceae;a family of basidiomycetous fungi of the order tremellales that have the basidium divided longitudinally
gorgoniacea;red corals and sea fans
alstroemeriaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted. sometimes included in subfamily amaryllidaceae
genus vanda;genus of showy epiphytic orchids of himalaya to malaysia
ptychozoon;flying geckos
dermaptera;earwigs and a few related forms
genus amorphophallus;genus of large tropical east asian cormous aroids: devil's tongue. snake palm
genus pitymys;pine mice
genus pecari;type genus of the tayassuidae
genus shorea;genus of indo-malaysian timber trees rich in resin
arctotis;herbs and subshrubs: african daisy
genus hottonia;aquatic herbs
sauria;true lizards. including chameleons and geckos
mephitis;in some classifications: type genus of the subfamily mephitinae
gnetophytina;gymnospermous flowering plants. supposed link between conifers and angiosperms. in some systems classified as as class (gnetopsida) and in others as a subdivision (gnetophytina or gnetophyta)
cycas;type genus of cycadaceae: genus of widely distributed old world evergreen tropical trees having pinnate leaves and columnar stems covered with persistent bases of old leaves
tentaculata;ctenophores have retractile tentacles
genus balsamorhiza;genus of coarse western american herbs with large roots containing an aromatic balsam
subfamily mimosoideae;alternative name used in some classification systems for the family mimosaceae
genus todea;a genus of delicate ferns belonging to the family osmundaceae
genus acanthophis;australian elapid snakes
genus caragana;large genus of asiatic deciduous shrubs or small trees
pythonidae;in some classifications a family separate from boidae comprising old world boas
clupea;type genus of the clupeidae: typical herrings
family schizophyceae;former terms for cyanophyceae
tulostomatales;an order of fungi belonging to the class gasteromycetes
cyon;asiatic wild dog
desmodium;beggarweed. tick_trefoil
metazoa;multicellular animals having cells differentiated into tissues and organs and usually a digestive cavity and nervous system
eriophyllum;genus of hairy herbs and shrubs of western north america
genus rumohra;leatherleaf ferns: in some classifications included in genus polystichum
suborder ophidia;snakes
krypterophaneron;a genus of fish in the family anomalopidae
class asteroidea;sea stars
dialeurodes;a genus of aleyrodidae
family musaceae;treelike tropical asian herbs
genus polyodon;type genus of the polyodontidae
genus nicandra;sturdy annual of peru
genus microsporum;a genus of fungus of the family moniliaceae. causes ringworm
genus opuntia;large genus of cactuses native to america: prickly pears
genus monochamus;sawyer beetles
lobularia;sweet alyssum
geoglossaceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order helotiales
genus adlumia;1 species: climbing fumitory
rose family;a large family of dicotyledonous plants of order rosales. have alternate leaves and five-petaled flowers with numerous stamens
order sphaeriales;large order of ascomycetous fungi usually having a dark hard perithecia with definite ostioles. in more recent classifications often divided among several orders
genus swertia;genus of herbs of mountains of north america and eurasia and africa
genus leonotis;small genus of tropical herbs and subshrubs of south africa
genus sassafras;a genus of sassafras
genus ascaris;type genus of the family ascaridae: roundworms with a three-lipped mouth
schomburgkia;genus of tropical american epiphytic orchids with showy racemose flowers
genus volvox;type genus of the volvocaceae. minute pale green flagellates occurring in tiny spherical colonies. minute flagella rotate the colony about an axis
lecanoraceae;a fungus family of the division lichenes
genus menticirrhus;kingfishes. whiting
momordica;old world tropical vine
argonauta;type genus of the family argonautidae: paper nautilus
genus taraktagenos;medium to large indo-malayan trees
white slime mushroom;a type of slime mushroom
ozonium;form genus of imperfect fungi
family clathraceae;family of fleshy stinkhornlike fungi
family vespertilionidae;the majority of common bats of temperate regions of the world
genus leucogenes;new zealand edelweiss
bovini;term not used technically. essentially coextensive with genus bos
genus tachypleus;a genus of limulidae
order pediculati;anglers and batfishes. spiny-finned marine fishes having pectoral fins at the ends of armlike processes and a long movable spine on the dorsal fin to lure prey to the large mouth
menziesia;deciduous shrubs of north america and eastern asia
sebastodes;rockfishes
parus;type genus of the family paridae
family culicidae;mosquitoes
family zosteraceae;used in some classifications: essentially equivalent to potamogetonaceae
callithricidae;marmosets
ginkgo family;constituting the order ginkgoales. includes the genus ginkgo and extinct forms
mollusca;gastropods. bivalves. cephalopods. chitons
rhiptoglossa;old world chameleons. in some classifications rhiptoglossa is considered a superfamily of sauria
family anhingidae;snakebirds
helotiaceae;a fungus family of order helotiales
morchellaceae;a family of edible fungi including the true morels
genus astilbe;chiefly asiatic perennials: spirea
cecropia;large genus of tropical american trees that yield a bast fiber used for cordage and bark used in tanning. milky juice yields caoutchouc
order scleroparei;scorpionfishes. sculpins. gurnards. greenlings. flying gurnards
genus lyginopteris;genus of fossil seed ferns of the carboniferous
order casuarinales;order of chiefly australian trees and shrubs comprising the casuarinas. 1 family: casuarinaceae
genus leiopelma;type and sole genus of the family leiopelmatidae
ephemeridae;mayflies
fumaria;annual herbs whose flowers have only one petal spurred at the base
celastraceae;trees and shrubs and woody vines usually having bright-colored fruits
anthophyta;comprising flowering plants that produce seeds enclosed in an ovary. in some systems considered a class (angiospermae) and in others a division (magnoliophyta or anthophyta)
avena;oats
arnoseris;lamb succory
hylophylax;a genus of formicariidae
genus townsendia;genus of western american low tufted herbs: easter daisy
eurypterida;extinct aquatic arthropods of the paleozoic
family parulidae;new world warblers
genus artemia;fairy shrimp. brine shrimp
euproctis;a genus of lymantriidae
ovalipes;a genus of portunidae
suborder zygoptera;damselflies
commelinaceae;large widely distributed family of chiefly perennial herbs or climbers: spiderworts
merluccius;hakes
gelechiidae;important economic pests
mus;type genus of the muridae: common house mice. upper incisors have a square-notched tip
pieris;type genus of the pieridae
genus pediocactus;low-growing cacti of the american great plains
order parietales;a large order of dicotyledonous plants of subclass dilleniidae
genus remilegia;a genus of echeneididae
family gesneriaceae;large family of tropical herbs or shrubs or lianas. in some classification systems placed in the order scrophulariales
camassia;genus of scapose herbs of north and south america having large edible bulbs
phyllium;type genus of the phyllidae
mastotermitidae;primitive termites
culver s physic;a tall perennial herb having spikes of small white or purple flowers. common in eastern north america
family characidae;tropical freshwater fishes of africa and s and central america
genus cryptocoryne;water trumpet. aquatic herbs having broad leaves and long slender spathes. often used as aquarium plants
genus acridotheres;mynas
isurus;mako sharks
trichostema;genus of north american aromatic herbs or subshrubs: blue curls
genus diplotaxis;wall rocket
caryocar;type genus of the caryocaraceae. south american trees yielding strong fine-grained wood and edible nuts
order psocoptera;an order of insects: includes booklice and barklice
family passifloraceae;tropical woody tendril-climbing vines
genus pyrrhula;bullfinches
piper;type genus of the piperaceae: large genus of chiefly climbing tropical shrubs
genus tautoga;tautogs
genus cercosporella;form genus of imperfect fungi lacking pigment in the spores and conidiophores
family centropomidae;a family of fish or the order perciformes including robolos
genus burmannia;type genus of the burmanniaceae. slender herbs of warm regions with leaves resembling scales and flowers with a 3-angled or 3-winged perianth
genus prionotus;a genus of triglidae
okapia;okapis
genus lepomis;bream
lonchocarpus;genus of chiefly tropical american shrubs and trees having pinnate leaves and red or white flowers
blattaria;cockroaches. in some classifications considered an order
calliophis;asian coral snakes
genus polygonia;comma butterflies
genus adalia;genus of ladybugs
genus mantis;type genus of the mantidae: mantises
genus lopholatilus;large brightly colored food fish of deep atlantic waters
cephalotaxaceae;a family of cephalotaxaceae
magnoliaceae;subclass_magnoliidae: genera liriodendron. magnolia. manglietia
genus hydromys;water rats
canidae;dogs. wolves. jackals. foxes
cannaceae;coextensive with the genus canna
pezizaceae;large family comprising many typical cup fungi
prosauropoda;the earliest known dinosaurs
otaria;type genus of the otariidae
genus hylocichla;american thrushes: wood thrush. hermit thrush. veery
amia;type genus of the amiidae
genus napaea;1 species: glade mallow
genus derris;genus of old world tropical shrubs and woody vines
genus taxidea;in some classifications considered a genus of subfamily melinae
amelanchier;north american deciduous trees or shrubs
order selaginellales;in some classifications included in lycopodiales
family microdesmidae;wormfishes
genus zygophyllum;usually tropical herbs or shrubs having ill-smelling foliage and flower buds that are used as capers: bean capers
genus dendroaspis;mambas
spraguea;small genus of usually perennial herbs having deep woody taproots and flower heads of umbels or cymes
geranium family;chiefly herbaceous plants
genus brontosaurus;large quadrupedal herbivorous dinosaurs with very long neck and tail. late jurassic
family psilotaceae;small family of lower ferns having nearly naked stems and minute scalelike leaves
genus gempylus;type genus of the gempylidae
genus actinomyces;type genus of the family actinomycetacaea
schinus;genus of evergreen shrubs and trees of tropical and subtropical regions of south and central america and canary islands and china
amianthum;1 species: fly poison. sometimes placed in family melanthiaceae
sweet sorghum;any of several sorghums cultivated as a source of syrup
acer argutum;small shrubby japanese plant with leaves having 5 to 7 acuminate lobes. yellow in autumn
genus xyris;chiefly american marsh plants, having usually yellow flowers
class filicopsida;ferns
genus argemone;prickly poppies
subdivision mastigomycota;fungi in which the spores and gametes are motile. in some systems placed in the phycomycetes group with the zygomycota
genus sapindus;type genus of the sapindaceae
family cuculidae;includes cuckoo. ani. roadrunner
melanitta;scoters
crowberry family;heathlike shrubs
petromyzoniformes;lampreys as distinguished from hagfishes
genus bathyergus;mole rats
genus scomber;type genus of the scombridae
genus phoca;type genus of the phocidae: earless seals
genus genyonemus;a genus of sciaenidae
menurae;lyrebirds and scrubbirds
genus pithecolobium;thorny shrubs and trees of tropical and subtropical america and asia
trematoda;flukes
genus ara;macaws
aspergillus;genus of common molds causing food spoilage and some pathogenic to plants and animals
liliopsida;comprising seed plants that produce an embryo with a single cotyledon and parallel-veined leaves: includes grasses and lilies and palms and orchids. divided into four subclasses or superorders: alismatidae. arecidae. commelinidae. and liliidae
genus lecanopteris;epiphytic ferns of southeastern asia to new guinea
desmidium;a genus of protoctista
genus virgilia;genus of south african trees having pinnate leaves and rose-purple flowers followed by leathery pods
family phocidae;earless seals
family triglidae;in some classifications restricted to the gurnards and subdivided into the subfamilies triglinae (true sea robins) and peristediinae (armored sea robins)
genus leitneria;1 species: corkwood
testudinidae;land tortoises
family tachyglossidae;echidnas
caesalpiniaceae;spiny trees, shrubs, or perennial herbs, including the genera caesalpinia, cassia, ceratonia, bauhinia. commonly included in the family leguminosae
genus butea;genus of east indian trees or shrubs: dhak
family limulidae;horseshoe crabs
hylobates;gibbons
spiraea;a dicotyledonous genus of the family rosaceae
cecropiaceae;in some classifications included in family moraceae
family brevicipitidae;narrow-mouthed toads and sheep frogs. some burrow and some are arboreal. found worldwide
platalea;type genus of the plataleidae
heterocephalus;sand rats
micropogonias;croakers
tyranni;new world flycatchers. antbirds. oven birds. woodhewers
anguillidae;eels that live in fresh water as adults but return to the sea to spawn
colchicum;chiefly fall-blooming perennial cormous herbs. sometimes placed in family colchicaceae
class hepaticopsida;liverworts: comprises orders anthocerotales. jungermanniales. marchantiales. sphaerocarpales
carpodacus;house finches and purple finches
nauclea;small genus of evergreen tropical shrubs or trees with smooth leathery leaves
pseudaletia;moths whose larvae are armyworms
genus xanthorroea;grass trees. sometimes placed in family xanthorrhoeaceae
oenanthe;poisonous herbs: water dropworts
subgenus azaleastrum;group of evergreen or deciduous shrubs formerly considered a separate genus. now included in the genus rhododendron
order sclerodermatales;an order of fungi having a peridium surrounding an unchamered gleba (sometimes placed in subclass homobasidiomycetes)
reduviidae;assassin bugs
psilotaceae;small family of lower ferns having nearly naked stems and minute scalelike leaves
paris;sometimes placed in subfamily trilliaceae
pteretis;small genus sometimes included in genus onoclea. in some classifications both genera are placed in polypodiaceae
genus viverra;type genus of the family viverridae
genus ophiophagus;king cobra
genus halogeton;a caryophyllaceous genus of the family chenopodiaceae
heterokontae;all the yellow-green algae having flagella of unequal length
genus euthynnus;a genus of scombridae
meadow spikemoss;spikemoss forming dense mats. eastern north america
genus ceiba;tropical american trees with palmately compound leaves and showy bell-like flowers
cicadellidae;leafhoppers
genus prumnopitys;mostly dioecious evergreen conifers. leaves are softer than in podocarpus
glareolidae;old world shorebirds: pratincoles and coursers
family theraphosidae;large tropical spiders. tarantulas
plesianthropus;former name for the genus australopithecus
genus cola;large genus of african trees bearing kola nuts
genus amphisbaenia;type genus of the amphisbaenidae
strepsiceros;african antelopes: kudus. bongos. nyalas. bushbucks
cynipidae;a family of hymenoptera
genus platanus;genus of large monoecious mostly deciduous trees: london plane. sycamore
centaurea;knapweed. star thistle
ranunculales;herbs, shrubs and trees: includes families ranunculaceae. annonaceae. berberidaceae. magnoliaceae. menispermaceae. myristicaceae. nymphaeaceae. lardizabalaceae. lauraceae. calycanthaceae. ceratophyllaceae. cercidiphyllaceae
family asilidae;robber flies
durra;sorghums of dry regions of asia and north africa
family caesalpiniaceae;spiny trees, shrubs, or perennial herbs, including the genera caesalpinia, cassia, ceratonia, bauhinia. commonly included in the family leguminosae
genus tuber;type genus of the tuberaceae: fungi whose fruiting bodies are typically truffles
geothlypis;yellowthroats
viminaria;1 species: australian leafless shrubs: swamp oak
genus antigonia;a genus of fish in the family caproidae
meliaceae;tropical trees and shrubs including many important timber and ornamental trees
festuca;a genus of tufted perennial grasses of the family gramineae
family dactyloscopidae;sand stargazers
tulostomaceae;stalked puffballs
genus botrychium;grape fern. moonwort
genus dicentra;north american and asian herbs with divided leaves and irregular flowers
family bacteroidaceae;family of bacteria living usually in the alimentary canal or on mucous surfaces of warm-blooded animals. sometimes associated with acute infective processes
caryota;fishtail palms
genus pooecetes;a genus of fringillidae
genus aspis;horned vipers
pongo;type genus of the family pongidae: orangutans
phyllodoce;small genus of evergreen arctic and alpine shrubs
lacertilia;true lizards. including chameleons and geckos
ruscus;a genus of european evergreen shrubs. sometimes placed in family asparagaceae
genus caenolestes;type genus of the family caenolestidae
plumiera;deciduous shrubs and trees of tropical america having branches like candelabra and fragrant white or pink flowers
genus physa;type genus of the physidae. freshwater air-breathing snails
genus cabassous;solely the tatouay
acinos;plants closely allied to the genera satureja and calamintha
holocentridae;squirrelfishes and soldierfishes
genus paphiopedilum;horticulturally important genus of mainly terrestrial orchids including many hybrids. southeastern asia and indonesia to philippines and solomon islands. paphiopedilum species sometimes included in genus cypripedium
elettaria;cardamom
genus leptospira;very slender aerobic spirochetes. free-living or parasitic in mammals
euronithopoda;widespread group including duck-billed dinosaurs and their early relatives (hadrosaurs. trachodon. iguanodon)
family haloragaceae;a family of dicotyledonous plants of the order myrtales
genus cardamine;bittercress, bitter_cress
aplectrum;a monocotyledonous genus of the family orchicaceae
hemimetabola;subclass of insects characterized by gradual and usually incomplete metamorphosis
subfamily philadelphaceae;1 genus. usually included in family hydrangeaceae
genus kenyapithecus;extinct primate having powerful chewing muscles along with large molars and small incisors. fossils found in kenya
amphineura;a class of gastropoda
class lamellibranchia;oysters. clams. scallops. mussels
potos;a genus of procyonidae
genus felis;type genus of the felidae: true cats and most wildcats
picris;genus of weedy old world yellow-flowered herbs usually containing a bitter-tasting substance: bitterweed
genus polygonum;diverse genus of herbs or woody subshrubs of north temperate regions
genus apium;celery
alectis;a genus of carangidae
family characinidae;former name of the characidae
order synentognathi;order of fishes having spineless fins. needlefishes. sauries. flying fishes. halfbeaks
gnetales;chiefly tropical or xerophytic woody plants. practically unknown as fossils but considered close to the ancestral line of angiosperms
genus brachystegia;small genus of tropical african timber trees having pale golden heartwood uniformly striped with dark brown or black:
order lyginopteridales;fossil gymnospermous trees or climbing plants from the devonian: seed ferns
protoctist genus;any genus of protoctista
endamoeba;the type genus of the family endamoebidae
vultur;usually restricted to the andean condor
panthera;lions. leopards. snow leopards. jaguars. tigers. cheetahs. saber-toothed tigers
genus elaphurus;a genus of cervidae
hyalospongiae;sponges with 6-rayed siliceous spicules. choanocytes are restricted to finger-shaped chambers
subgenus azalea;group of evergreen or deciduous shrubs formerly considered a separate genus. now included in the genus rhododendron
cactus family;constituting the order opuntiales
coturnix;old world quail
flammulina;a genus of agarics
puffinus;shearwaters
genus balaena;type genus of the balaenidae: greenland whales
cecidomyidae;gall midges
solanaceae;large and economically important family of herbs or shrubs or trees often strongly scented and sometimes narcotic or poisonous. includes the genera solanum. atropa. brugmansia. capsicum. datura. hyoscyamus. lycopersicon. nicotiana. petunia. physalis. solandra
psetta;a genus of bothidae
poncirus;1 species: trifoliate orange
megachilidae;leaf-cutting and mason bees
bignoniaceae;trees or shrubs or woody vines or herbs having gourd-like or capsular fruit. sometimes placed in the order scrophulariales
glycyrrhiza;sticky perennial eurasian herbs
order secotiales;an order of fungi belonging to the class gasteromycetes
mobulidae;large rays lacking venomous spines: mantas
jungermanniales;large order of chiefly tropical liverworts
genus melanogrammus;haddock
sciaenops;a genus of sciaenidae
family;(biology) a taxonomic group containing one or more genera. 'sharks belong to the fish family'
asparagaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae: includes genera asparagus and sometimes ruscus
genus caladium;small genus of tropical south american tuberous perennials with large variously colored leaves
genus sigmodon;american cotton rats
davalliaceae;one of a number of families into which polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems. includes genera araiostegia. davallia. davallodes. gymnogrammitis. humata. leucostegia. scyphularia. trogostolon
genus choriotis;australian bustard
order uropygi;whip scorpions
genus najas;sole genus of the family naiadaceae
genus odontophorus;genus of central and south american crested partridges resembling quails. sometimes placed in a distinct subfamily or isolated in a distinct family
genus nigroporus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family polyporaceae
corrodentia;an order of insects: includes booklice and barklice
genus estrilda;avadavats
hydromyinae;water rats of australia and new guinea
podiceps;type genus of the podicipedidae: grebes
genus adenota;african antelopes: puku
genus galega;small genus of eurasian herbs: goat's rue
sphaerocarpales;small order sometimes included in the order jungermanniales
salamandra;type genus of the salamandridae
genus ammotragus;genus of wild sheep
genus jordanella;flagfishes
ochotonidae;pikas and extinct forms
genus prinia;a genus of sylviidae
genus hydra;hydras
pycnogonida;sea spiders
genus rypticus;a genus of fish of the family serranidae, including soapfishes (sometimes placed in the family grammistidae)
juglans;type genus of the juglandaceae
liposcelis;a genus of psocidae
family eleotridae;sleepers
genus tropidoclonion;lined snakes
superfamily lamellicornia;scarabaeid beetles and stag beetles
aves;birds
family phasmidae;stick insects
order fucales;coextensive with the family fucaceae
eriocaulaceae;chiefly tropical aquatic or bog herbs: pipeworts
apogonidae;bright-colored marine fishes that incubate eggs in the mouth
family cynoglossidae;tonguefishes
arenga;a genus of tropical asian and malaysian palm trees
piciformes;woodpeckers. jacamars. puffbirds. barbets. honey guides. toucans
genus crocodylus;type genus of the crocodylidae
family ctenizidae;large burrowing spiders
abelmoschus;genus of tropical coarse herbs having large lobed leaves and often yellow flowers
genus atriplex;orach. saltbush
jaculus;jerboas
lycophyta;used in some classifications for the class lycopsida: club mosses
family phalaropidae;phalaropes
genus hexanchus;a genus of hexanchidae
order actinaria;sea anemones
genus proterochampsa;early archosaurian carnivore
family amaryllidaceae;snowdrop. narcissus. daffodil. in some classification systems considered a subfamily of the liliaceae
genus toxicodendron;in some classifications: comprising those members of the genus rhus having foliage that is poisonous to the touch. of north america and northern south america
scandentia;a small order comprising only the tree shrews: in some classifications tree shrews are considered either primates (and included in the suborder prosimii) or true insectivores (and included in the order_insectivora)
family percidae;active freshwater fishes. true perches and pike perches
cephalanthera;small genus of temperate old world terrestrial orchids
family mylodontidae;extinct south american edentates
raffia;feather palm of tropical africa and madagascar and central and south america widely grown for commercial purposes
lambertia;small genus of australian shrubs
class thaliacea;small class of free-swimming tunicates. sometimes classified as an order
quamassia;genus of scapose herbs of north and south america having large edible bulbs
order peronosporales;order of chiefly parasitic lower fungi: albuginaceae and peronosporaceae and pythiaceae
family zingiberaceae;a family of tropical monocotyledonous plants of order musales
argynnis;fritillaries
acer rubrum;maple of eastern and central america. 5-lobed leaves scarlet and yellow in autumn
cosmocampus;a genus of fish in the family syngnathidae
genus vidua;whydahs
waxberry;deciduous shrub of western north america having spikes of pink flowers followed by round white berries
genus syrrhaptes;a genus of pteroclididae
genus cistothorus;marsh wrens
helminthostachys;1 species: terrestrial fern of southeastern asia and australia
doliolidae;oceanic tunicates
genus parascalops;brewer's moles
family empetraceae;heathlike shrubs
centrocercus;sage grouse
lucanidae;stag beetles
family drosophilidae;fruit flies
argyranthemum;comprises plants often included in the genus chrysanthemum
pulmonata;large order of gastropods usually breathing by means of a lung-like sac comprising most land snails and slugs and many freshwater snails
sepia;type genus of the sepiidae
genus welwitchia;type and sole genus of welwitschiaceae
family marattiaceae;constituting the order marattiales: chiefly tropical eusporangiate ferns with gigantic fronds
genus rauwolfia;pantropical genus of somewhat poisonous shrubs and small trees
fasciolidae;a family of trematoda
acrocomia;central and south american feather palms
family pezizaceae;large family comprising many typical cup fungi
genus sclerotinia;large genus of ascomycetous fungi including various destructive plant pathogens
gymnura;butterfly rays
genus lonicera;woodbine
genus saintpaulia;east african herb with nodding flowers. widely cultivated
gentian family;chiefly herbaceous plants with showy flowers. some are cultivated as ornamentals
genus appendicularia;a genus of chordates in the class larvacea
amsonia;genus of herbs and subshrubs with milky juice and showy bluish flowers. europe to asia minor to japan and north america
suborder marginocephalia;includes bone-headed (pachycephalosaurs) and horned (ceratopsian) dinosaurs
dacelo;australasian kingfishers
family blattidae;domestic cockroaches
genus ocimum;basil
setaria;annual or perennial grasses of warm regions: bristlegrasses
class cryptophyceae;motile usually brownish-green protozoa-like algae
genus grus;type genus of the gruidae: typical cranes
genus poronotus;a genus of stromateidae
gempylidae;snake mackerels
tiarella;small genus of north american herbs having mostly basal leaves and slender racemes of delicate white flowers
genus santalum;parasitic indo-malayan trees
arundo;any of several coarse tall perennial grasses of most warm areas: reeds
ustilaginales;parasitic fungi causing smuts. sometimes placed in class tiliomycetes
family macrorhamphosidae;bellows fishes
ginger family;a family of tropical monocotyledonous plants of order musales
passerina;small north american bush-loving finches: new world buntings
genus perilla;small genus of asiatic herbs
genus gerrhonotus;alligator lizards
cariama;type genus of the cariamidae comprising only the crested cariama
pinckneya;small genus of shrubs or small trees of southeastern united states and northern south america
gymnadeniopsis;genus of north american terrestrial orchids usually included in genus habenaria
griselinia;evergreen shrubs of new zealand and south america
mistletoe family;in some classifications considered a subfamily of loranthaceae
genus fossa;monotypic genus of madagascar civets closely related to palm civets
erythrocebus;patas
juncaginaceae;a family of monocotyledonous bog herbs of order naiadales
genus comptonia;1 species: sweet fern
family laminariaceae;large family of marine brown algae including many economically important large kelps chiefly of northern waters
haemopis;leeches
family varanidae;monitor lizards
genus polygala;type genus of the polygalaceae: milkwort. seneca. snakeroot
taxophytina;yews: in some systems classified as a class (taxopsida) and in others as a subdivision (taxophytina) used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
genus bletia;genus of tropical american terrestrial orchids with large purple or pink flowers
class monocotyledones;comprising seed plants that produce an embryo with a single cotyledon and parallel-veined leaves: includes grasses and lilies and palms and orchids. divided into four subclasses or superorders: alismatidae. arecidae. commelinidae. and liliidae
genus lacerta;type genus of the lacertidae
genus arcella;type genus of the arcellidae
ceratopogonidae;biting midges. sand flies
subclass asteridae;a group of mostly sympetalous herbs and some trees and shrubs mostly with 2 fused carpels. contains 43 families including solanaceae. scrophulriaceae. labiatae. verbenaceae. rubiaceae. compositae. sometimes classified as a superorder
eupatorium;large genus of chiefly tropical herbs having heads of white or purplish flowers
genus micromyx;old world harvest mice
genus balistes;type genus of the balistidae
ammodytes;type genus of the ammodytidae
garcinia;evergreen trees and shrubs: mangosteens
genus helipterum;genus of south african and australian herbs or shrubs grown as everlastings. the various helipterum species are currently in process of being assigned to other genera especially pteropogon and hyalosperma
genus haemanthus;genus of african deciduous or evergreen bulbous herbs: blood lilies
genus draba;large genus of low tufted herbs of temperate and arctic regions
order eubryales;mosses with perennial erect gametophores and stems with rows of leaves and drooping capsules
family asclepiadaceae;widely distributed family of herbs and shrubs of the order gentianales. most with milky juice
genus sardina;pilchards
nyctereutes;raccoon dogs
genus mucor;type genus of the mucoraceae. genus of molds having cylindrical or pear-shaped sporangia not limited in location to points where rhizoids develop
genus trichophyton;a genus of fungus of the family moniliaceae. causes ringworm
suborder petromyzoniformes;lampreys as distinguished from hagfishes
genus aerides;epiphytic orchids of tropical asia having stiff 2-ranked leaves and fragrant white flowers in arching racemes
sida;large genus of tropical subshrubs or herbs some of which yield fibers of musilaginous substances
urochordata;tunicates
genus orites;small genus of australian shrubs or trees
phytomastigina;plantlike flagellates containing chlorophyll. often considered unicellular algae
arius;type genus of the ariidae: sea catfishes
fasciola;a genus of fasciolidae
hermannia;genus of african herbs and subshrubs having honey-scented bell-shaped flowers
tribe bambuseae;bamboos
dipogon;1 species: australian pea
pulex;type genus of the pulicidae
order pseudoscorpiones;false scorpions
dicot family;family of flowering plants having two cotyledons (embryonic leaves) in the seed which usually appear at germination
genus sertularia;sessile hydroid that forms feathery colonies
genus calophyllum;genus of tropical evergreen trees
pseudopleuronectes;a genus of pleuronectidae
genus cochlearius;boatbills
dinocerata;small order of primitive ungulates of the paleocene and eocene
bryopsida;true mosses: bryophytes having leafy rather than thalloid gametophytes: comprises orders andreaeales. bryales. dicranales. eubryales. sphagnales
family synodontidae;soft-finned bottom-dwelling fishes
genus prosopis;genus of tropical or subtropical branching shrubs or trees: mesquite
suborder nematocera;mosquitoes. fungus gnats. crane flies. gnats. sand flies
genus arctocephalus;fur seals
genus parmelia;type genus of the parmeliaceae. a large genus of chiefly alpine foliaceous lichens
order apterygiformes;a ratite bird order: flightless ground birds having vestigial wings and long bills and small eyes: kiwis
citharichthys;a genus of bothidae
class diatomophyceae;marine and freshwater eukaryotic algae: diatoms
acanthurus;type genus of the acanthuridae: doctorfishes
myrmecobius;banded anteater
genus xenopus;african clawed frog. in some classifications made the type genus of a separate family xenopodidae
subclass crossopterygii;fishes having paired fins resembling limbs and regarded as ancestral to amphibians
genus anisotremus;a genus of haemulidae
genus pluteus;a large genus of fungi belonging to the family pluteaceae. the shape of the cap resembles a roof. often abundant early in the summer
subfamily petauristidae;old world flying squirrels
hyperoartia;lampreys as distinguished from hagfishes
marattiales;lower ferns coextensive with the family marattiaceae
bacillariophyceae;marine and freshwater eukaryotic algae: diatoms
genus cytisus;large genus of stiff or spiny evergreen or deciduous old world shrubs: broom
sphyrna;type genus of the sphyrnidae
nitrobacter;rod-shaped soil bacteria
scotch broom;deciduous erect spreading broom native to western europe. widely cultivated for its rich yellow flowers
pedipalpi;whip scorpions
genus gazania;genus of tomentose tropical african herbs with milky sap
cestidae;coextensive with the order cestida. ctenophores having a greatly flattened and elongated body
genus asclepias;genus of chiefly north american perennial herbs: silkweed. milkweed
subspecies;(biology) a taxonomic group that is a division of a species. usually arises as a consequence of geographical isolation within a species
arthropoda;jointed-foot invertebrates: arachnids. crustaceans. insects. millipedes. centipedes
genus magicicada;seventeen-year locust
genus attalea;unarmed feather palms of central and northern south america
family thelypteridaceae;genera thelypteris. phegopteris. others
white alder family;coextensive with the genus clethra
genus centranthus;genus of southern european herbs and subshrubs
family meliaceae;tropical trees and shrubs including many important timber and ornamental trees
genus geococcyx;roadrunners
daubentonia;type genus. coextensive with the family daubentoniidae
selar;big-eyed scad
subdivision ascomycota;a large subdivision of eumycota including hemiascomycetes and plectomycetes and pyrenomycetes and discomycetes. sac fungi. in some classification systems considered a division of the kingdom fungi
genus hamamelidoxylon;genus of fossil plants having wood identical with or similar to that of the witch hazel
genus plectrophenax;snow bunting
anguilliformes;elongate fishes with pelvic fins and girdle absent or reduced
myrmecophaga;type genus of the myrmecophagidae. south american ant bear
family aepyornidae;coextensive with the order aepyorniformes
genus cochlearia;a genus of the family cruciferae
tachinidae;parasites on other insects
witch hazel family;comprises genera hamamelis. corylopsis. fothergilla. liquidambar. parrotia. other small genera
suborder carnosaura;largest carnivorous land animals ever known
dasyprocta;type genus of the dasyproctidae: agoutis
genus sula;type genus of the sulidae
valerianella;genus of old world annual herbs widely naturalized
spurge family;a family of plants of order geraniales
xenopodidae;in some classifications the family of the genus xenopus which is otherwise included in the family pipidae
orbignya;palms of southern mexico to northern south america: babassu palm
polyprion;wreckfish
genus arctocebus;a genus of lorisidae
class eumycetes;category used in some classifications: coextensive with division eumycota
genus tarsius;type and sole genus of the family tarsiidae
serinus;old world finches: e.g. canaries and serins
genus hatiora;small genus of south american epiphytic or lithophytic cacti
aloe family;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
myrtaceae;trees and shrubs yielding a fragrant oil
willow family;two genera of trees or shrubs having hairy catkins: salix. populus
class bivalvia;oysters. clams. scallops. mussels
dromaius;a genus of birds in the order casuariiformes
steganopus;a genus of phalaropidae
salvelinus;brook trout
genus pseudaletia;moths whose larvae are armyworms
genus lepidium;cosmopolitan genus of annual and biennial and perennial herbs: cress
family pythonidae;in some classifications a family separate from boidae comprising old world boas
isoetes;type and genus of the isoetaceae and sole extant genus of the order isoetales
genus eleusine;annual and perennial grasses of savannas and upland grasslands
subdivision deuteromycota;large and heterogeneous form division of fungi comprising forms for which no sexually reproductive stage is known: orders sphaeropsidales. melanconiales. moniliales. mycelia_sterilia
genus equetus;drumfish
genus belamcanda;a monocotyledonous genus of the family iridaceae
anodonta;thin-shelled freshwater mussels
scopolia;genus of european perennial herbs yielding medicinal alkaloids
liliid monocot family;family of monocotyledonous plants of the subclass liliidae. mostly herbs usually with petaloid sepals and petals and compound pistils
family ochotonidae;pikas and extinct forms
besseya;genus of north american spring wildflowers
genus blechnum;in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae. terrestrial ferns of cosmopolitan distribution mainly in southern hemisphere: hard ferns
genus alces;elk or moose
amoebida;the animal order including amoebas
genus conilurus;jerboa rats
genus oestrus;type genus of the oestridae: sheep botflies
genus cistus;small to medium-sized evergreen shrubs of southern europe and north africa
ctenophore family;a family of ctenophores
genus haemoproteus;type genus of the family haemoproteidae
nemertea;proboscis worms
family jassidae;family of small leafhoppers coextensive with the cicadellidae and not distinguished from it in some classifications
blephilia;small genus of north american herbs: wood mints
genus cryptogramma;sometimes placed in family polypodiaceae or cryptogrammataceae
genus gambelia;leopard lizards
genus elaphe;north american rat snakes
amblyrhynchus;marine iguanas
genus vernonia;genus of new world tropical herbs or shrubs with terminal cymose heads of tubular flowers
buccinidae;whelks
genus chrysothamnus;genus of low branching shrubs of western north america
family callithricidae;marmosets
tipuana;1 species: south american tree: tipu_tree
family staphylinidae;rove beetles
genus euphractus;a genus of dasypodidae
peony family;perennial rhizomatous herbs and shrubs. of temperate europe and north america
genus cordaites;tall paleozoic trees superficially resembling modern screw pines. structurally intermediate in some ways between cycads and conifers
plantago;type genus of the family plantaginaceae. large cosmopolitan genus of mostly small herbs
genus gastroboletus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family secotiaceae. they resemble boletes but the spores are not discharged from the basidium
centranthus;genus of southern european herbs and subshrubs
genus limosa;godwits
genus raphus;type genus of the raphidae: dodos
subclass magnoliidae;a group of families or trees and shrubs and herbs having well-developed perianths and apocarpous ovaries and generally regarded as the most primitive extant flowering plants. contains 36 families including magnoliaceae and ranunculaceae. sometimes classified as a superorder
livistona;fan palms of asia and australia and malaysia
podocarpaceae;gymnosperms with simple persistent needlelike or scalelike leaves
troglodytidae;wrens
taeniidae;a family of cestoda
circaetus;harrier eagles
genus hyperoglyphe;a genus of stromateidae
genus actias;luna moths
genus stenocarpus;small genus of timber trees. australia to malaysia
genus architeuthis;giant squid
family xylariaceae;family of fungi characterized by dark brown to back spores
genus mutinus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family phallaceae
genus litocranius;e african antelopes: gerenuks
argentina;type genus of the argentinidae: argentines
oestrus;type genus of the oestridae: sheep botflies
dennstaedtia;chiefly terrestrial ferns. in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae
anthoceropsida;hornworts: in some classification systems included in the class hepaticopsida
family connaraceae;mostly tropical climbing shrubs or small trees. closely related to leguminosae
family cancridae;many of the best known edible crabs
buttercup family;a family of ranunculaceae
genus holcus;a genus of old world grasses widely cultivated in america
genus macaca;macaques. rhesus monkeys
gobiidae;gobies
scombresocidae;only sauries
genus sagittarius;type family of the sagittariidae
genus procellaria;type genus of the procellariidae
lumpenus;a genus of stichaeidae
family blenniidae;a family of fish including: combtooth blennies
anthoceros;hornworts
houttuynia;1 species. east asian low-growing plant of wet places
genus pleurobrachia;sea gooseberries
genus chlamydia;type genus of the family chlamydiaceae: disease-causing parasites
cimicidae;wingless flat-bodied blood-sucking insects
crocodilus;type genus of the crocodylidae
gnetaceae;plants having small unisexual flowers and fleshy or winged fruit: in some classifications includes the genera ephedra and welwitschia as well as gnetum
genus aspidelaps;african coral snakes
family gomphotheriidae;elephants extinct since the pleistocene
genus kalotermes;type genus of kalotermitidae. termites destructive of wood and living trees
genus erysimum;large genus of annual or perennial herbs some grown for their flowers and some for their attractive evergreen leaves. old world and north america
family graminaceae;the grasses: chiefly herbaceous but some woody plants including cereals. bamboo. reeds. sugar cane
genus oligoporus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family polyporaceae
knightia;small genus of trees or shrubs of new zealand and new caledonia
malpighia;type genus of the malpighiaceae
ctenocephalides;an arthropod genus formerly called genus ctenocephalus
sericocarpus;small genus of herbs of the eastern united states: white-topped asters
bertholletia;brazil nut
desmograthus;an amphibian genus of plethodontidae
otididae;bustards
ateles;spider monkeys
torpedinidae;electric rays
ramphomicron;thornbills
diospyros;a genus of trees or shrubs that have beautiful and valuable wood
genus micropogonias;croakers
genus phenacomys;north american boles
cocos;coconut palms
tayassuidae;peccaries
genus anas;type genus of the anatidae: freshwater ducks
scomberomorus;spanish mackerels
genus tragopan;a genus of phasianidae
megatheriidae;extinct ground sloths
genus turnix;type genus of the turnicidae: button quail
limulus;type genus of the family limulidae
megapodius;type genus of the megapodiidae
neomys;a genus of soricidae
daviesia;genus of australasian shrubs and subshrubs having small yellow or purple flowers followed by short triangular pods
moss family;a family of mosses
genus culex;type genus of the culicidae: widespread genus of mosquitoes distinguished by holding the body parallel to the resting surface
rose of jericho;densely tufted fern ally of southwestern united states to peru. curls up in a tight ball when dry and expands and grows under moist conditions
order geraniales;an order of plants of subclass rosidae including geraniums and many other plants. see euphorbiaceae. geraniaceae. rutaceae. malpighiaceae. simaroubaceae. meliaceae. zygophyllaceae. tropaeolaceae
pisonia;genus of often thorny tropical trees and shrubs and some vines. mainly america
acanthuridae;surgeonfishes
passeridae;true sparrows: old world birds formerly considered weaverbirds
calluna;one species
genus gerbillus;type genus of the gerbillinae: typical gerbils
order colymbiformes;grebes
apoidea;bees
genus leucocytozoan;a genus of protoctista
genus ailurus;lesser pandas
family glareolidae;old world shorebirds: pratincoles and coursers
genus manis;type genus of the manidae
genus phylloporus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family boletaceae
family neritidae;neritids
order charadriiformes;large diverse order of aquatic birds found along seacoasts and inland waters: shorebirds and coastal diving birds. most feed on anima life
acanthocephala;phylum or class of elongated wormlike parasites that live in the intestines of vertebrates: spiny-headed worms
veratrum;a genus of coarse poisonous perennial herbs. sometimes placed in subfamily melanthiaceae
sus;type genus of the suidae
blastocladiales;fungi that carry out asexual reproduction by thick-walled resting spores that produce zoospores upon germination. sometimes placed in class oomycetes
genus hydrangea;type genus of hydrangeacea. large genus of shrubs and some trees and vines with white or pink or blue flower clusters. sometimes placed in family saxifragaceae
ulvaceae;thin flat or tubular green algae
genus roystonea;a monocotyledonous genus of west indian feather palms
schizosaccharomycetaceae;a family of fungi belonging to order endomycetales
castilleja;genus of western north and south american perennials often partially parasitic on roots of grasses
hypericaceae;used in some classification systems for plants usually included among the guttiferae
family fulgoridae;plant hoppers: lantern flies
endomycetales;fungi having a zygote or a single cell developing directly into an ascus
dipnoi;bony fishes of the southern hemisphere that breathe by a modified air bladder as well as gills. sometimes classified as an order of crossopterygii
haemodoraceae;some genera placed in family liliaceae
carpobrotus;a caryophyllaceous genus of carpobrotus
zamia family;a family of cycads often included in the family cycadaceae: zamias
dendroica;a genus of parulidae
phylum chaetognatha;arrowworms: a group of small active transparent marine worms
ophiophagus;king cobra
genus limulus;type genus of the family limulidae
sundew family;a family of carnivorous herbs and shrubs
genus natrix;water snakes. a cosmopolitan genus
genus salmo;type genus of the salmonidae: salmon and trout
genus elephas;type genus of the family elephantidae
lomatia;any of various ornamental evergreens of the genus lomatia having attractive fragrant flowers
macrocheira;giant crabs of japan
genus adenanthera;small genus of trees of tropical asia and pacific areas
subgenus calliopsis;used in some classification systems for some plants of genus coreopsis
genus pomaderris;a genus of australasian shrubs and trees
latimeria;type genus of the latimeridae: coelacanth
struthio;type genus of the struthionidae: african ostriches
oleales;coextensive with the family oleaceae. in some classifications included in the order gentianales
canella family;1 genus: aromatic tropical trees of eastern africa and florida to west indies
genus lobotes;type genus of the lobotidae
family chrysomelidae;leaf beetles
carchariidae;sand sharks. in some classifications coextensive with family carcharhinidae
genus polyporus;type genus of the polyporaceae. includes important pathogens of e.g. birches and conifers
aplysia;type genus of the family aplysiidae
genus papio;baboons
genus stelis;genus of small caespitose orchids of tropical america
haldea;ground snakes
genus camptosorus;classification used in some especially former systems for plants usually placed in genus asplenium
genus juniperus;junipers
leadwort family;perennial herbs and shrubs and lianas. cosmopolitan especially in salt-water areas
teredinidae;shipworms
genus picus;type genus of picidae
suborder alcyonacea;comprising the soft corals
hexagrammos;type genus of the hexagrammidae
nyctaginia;a caryophyllaceous genus of the family nyctaginaceae having only one species
subgenus chen;wild goose having white adult plumage
aetobatus;a genus of myliobatidae
subfamily dracaenaceae;one of two subfamilies to which some classification systems assign some members of the agavaceae
genus codariocalyx;used in some classifications for plants usually included in genus desmodium
genus bucephala;buffleheads and goldeneyes
santalales;order of plants distinguished by having a one-celled inferior ovary. many are parasitic or partly parasitic usually on roots
blastocladia;a genus of fungi of the family blastodiaceae
genus cynoglossum;a large genus of tall rough herbs belonging to the family boraginaceae
pseudowintera;evergreen shrubs or small trees of australia and new zealand
genus coprinus;genus of black-spotted agarics in which the cap breaks down at maturity into an inky fluid. sometimes placed in its own family coprinaceae
rhizophora;type genus of the rhizophoraceae. a small genus of tropical trees and shrubs
genus disa;genus of showy tropical african terrestrial orchids
genus catoptrophorus;willet
class euglenophyceae;coextensive with the division euglenophyta
genus recurvirostra;type genus of the recurvirostridae: avocets
notropis;shiners
genus masdevallia;large genus of tropical american mostly epiphytic orchids whose flowers have sepals fused at the base forming a tube. includes orchids sometimes placed in genera dracula and dryadella and scaphosepalum
order sarcosporidia;imperfectly known parasites of the muscles of vertebrates
family xiphiidae;comprising the common swordfishes
genus pyrrhuloxia;large showy finches related to cardinals
plumbaginaceae;perennial herbs and shrubs and lianas. cosmopolitan especially in salt-water areas
plautus;a genus of alcidae
genus gastrolobium;genus of australian evergreen shrubs poisonous to livestock: poison bush
hedeoma;small genus of american herbs (american pennyroyal)
corydalidae;dobsons
genus castanea;chestnuts. chinkapins
calocarpum;a genus of tropical american trees of the family sapotaceae
genus moneses;1 species: one-flowered wintergreen. sometimes included in genus pyrola
order chytridiales;simple aquatic fungi mostly saprophytic but some parasitic on higher plants or animals or fresh water fungi. sometimes placed in class oomycetes
sphecius;large solitary wasps: cicada killer
family theaceae;a family of trees and shrubs of the order parietales
alisma;small genus of aquatic or semiaquatic plants
genus plautus;a genus of alcidae
genus hulsea;small genus of erect balsam-scented herbs. united states pacific nw
genus scomberesox;a genus of scomberesocidae
order saurischia;extinct terrestrial reptiles: theropods (carnivorous). sauropods (herbivorous)
family nepenthaceae;coextensive with the genus nepenthes
family leptotyphlopidae;blind snakes
discomycetes;a large and taxonomically difficult group of ascomycetes in which the fleshy fruiting body is disklike or cup-shaped
tytonidae;comprising only the barn owls
genus nasua;coatis
ictalurus;channel catfishes
subclass exopterygota;subclass of insects characterized by gradual and usually incomplete metamorphosis
nyssaceae;a family of dicotyledonous trees of order myrtales that includes the sour gum trees
erianthus;genus of reedlike grasses having spikes crowded in a panicle covered with long silky hairs
genus catacala;moths whose larvae are cutworms: underwings
reptilia;class of cold-blooded air-breathing vertebrates with completely ossified skeleton and a body usually covered with scales or horny plates. once the dominant land animals
cnidoscolus;a genus of perennial plant with bristles. belonging to the family euphorbiaceae
genus dryopteris;large widespread genus of medium-sized terrestrial ferns. in some classification systems placed in polypodiaceae
order ebenales;trees or shrubs of the families ebenaceae or sapotaceae or styracaceae or symplocaceae
genus fraxinus;ash
liparidae;snailfishes
genus colocasia;small genus of perennial tuberous herbs of tropical asia: taro
genus ankylosaurus;armored herbivorous dinosaurs of the cretaceous
family gelechiidae;important economic pests
family scyliorhinidae;small bottom-dwelling sharks
genus scolytus;type genus of the scolytidae comprising numerous small bark beetles
sorgho;any of several sorghums cultivated as a source of syrup
family paradisaeidae;birds of paradise
testacea;testacean rhizopods
trionychidae;soft-shelled turtles
turdidae;thrushes. in some classifications considered a subfamily (turdinae) of the family_muscicapidae
viverricula;a genus of viverridae
genus encephalartos;genus of arborescent african cycads. sometimes classified in family_cycadaceae
genus hedeoma;small genus of american herbs (american pennyroyal)
himantoglossum;small genus of terrestrial orchids of europe and mediterranean region
family falconidae;a family of birds of the order falconiformes
pteridospermae;used in some classification systems: a group of extinct fossil gymnosperms coextensive with the order cycadofilicales
family dipodidae;old world jerboas
anaphalis;genus of herbs of north temperate regions having hoary leaves: pearly everlasting
vitis;the type genus of the family vitaceae. woody vines with simple leaves and small flowers. includes a wide variety of grapes
genus lithops;genus of stemless south african succulents
cordylus;type genus of the cordylidae. spiny lizards somewhat resembling tiny crocodiles
onosmodium;a genus of north american perennial herbs of the family boraginaceae
genus sida;large genus of tropical subshrubs or herbs some of which yield fibers of musilaginous substances
white horehound;european aromatic herb with hairy leaves and numerous white flowers in axillary cymes. leaves yield a bitter extract use medicinally and as flavoring
order pezizales;order of mostly saprophytic fungi having cup-shaped ascocarps
isoetales;aquatic or marsh-growing fern allies. known to have existed since the cenozoic. sometimes included in lycopodiales
curculionidae;true weevils: snout beetles
genus ceterach;small genus of old world ferns. superseded in some classification systems which place plants of this genus in e.g. genera asplenium and pleurosorus
family procellariidae;petrels. fulmars. shearwaters.
family russulaceae;used in some classification systems for the genus russula
family pholidae;a family of fish of suborder blennioidea
genus glis;type genus of the gliridae
genus pipile;genus of large crested guans (the piping guans)
genus parochetus;1 species: shamrock pea
pooecetes;a genus of fringillidae
genus scardinius;rudds
family trichiuridae;cutlassfishes
limnodromus;dowitchers
genus leucothoe;american and asiatic deciduous and evergreen shrubs
phylum coelenterata;hydras. polyps. jellyfishes. sea anemones. corals
echeneididae;fishes having a sucking disk on the head for clinging to other fishes and to ships
family volvocaceae;unicellular or colonial biflagellate free-swimming flagellates
family typhaceae;perennial marsh plants with creeping rootstocks and long linear leaves
genus vulpes;foxes
subdivision pteropsida;used in former classifications to include all ferns and flowering plants and divided into the three classes filicinae and gymnospermae and angiospermae
suborder hystricomorpha;an order of rodents including: porcupines. guinea pigs. chinchillas. etc.
genus festuca;a genus of tufted perennial grasses of the family gramineae
funka;robust east asian clump-forming perennial herbs having racemose flowers: plantain lilies. sometimes placed in family hostaceae
anguidae;alligator lizards
genus mertensia;a genus of herbs belonging to the family boraginaceae that grow in temperate regions and have blue or purple flowers shaped like funnels
genus atherinopsis;a genus of atherinidae
genus tanacetum;a large genus of plants resembling chrysanthemums. comprises some plants often included in other genera especially genus chrysanthemum
hamamelidanthum;genus of fossil plants of the oligocene having flowers resembling those of the witch hazel. found in baltic region
gregarinida;an order in the subclass telosporidia
order ictodosauria;extinct reptiles of the upper triassic
genus solanopteris;tropical american epiphytic ferns having rhizomes with tubers and roots as well as scales
genus lomatia;small genus of low-growing evergreens of chile and australia. some yield dyes
dryopteridaceae;alternative names for one of a number of families into which the family polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems
genus thelypteris;marsh ferns: in some classification systems considered part of genus dryopteris in family dryopteridaceae
psittacidae;coextensive with the order psittaciformes
genus jamesonia;xerophytic ferns of south america
order cetacea;an order of eutheria
genus carcharhinus;type genus of the carcharhinidae
order psilophytales;paleozoic simple dichotomously branched plants of europe and eastern canada including the oldest known vascular land plants
sagina;small low-growing annual or perennial herbs of temperate and cool regions
genus lecanora;type genus of lecanoraceae. crustaceous lichens
family belostomatidae;water bugs
mimus;type genus of the family mimidae: mockingbirds
anemia;genus of terrestrial or lithophytic ferns having pinnatifid almost skeletonlike fronds. chiefly of tropical america
polystichum;small to medium-sized terrestrial ferns especially holly ferns. in some classification systems placed in polypodiaceae
genus platylobium;small genus of australian evergreen leguminous shrubs or subshrubs
echinoidea;sea urchins and sand dollars
cuniculus;pacas
genus urophycis;hakes
acer;type genus of the aceraceae. trees or shrubs having winged fruit
malacopterygii;an extensive group of teleost fishes having fins supported by flexible cartilaginous rays
genus phyllostomus;type genus of the family phyllostomatidae
genus nanomia;a genus of siphonophora
genus lavatera;widespread genus or herbs or soft-wooded arborescent shrubs cultivated for their showy flowers
genus corythosaurus;genus of duck-billed dinosaurs of late cretaceous
genus pharomacrus;a genus of trogonidae
lythrum;loosestrife
family centriscidae;shrimpfishes
tineola;webbing clothes moths
thyreophora;armored dinosaurs: stegosaurs and ankylosaurs
genus mysis;type genus of the family mysidae
genus ochotona;type genus of the ochotonidae
coracias;type genus of the coraciidae
strawberry shrub family;shrubs or small trees having aromatic bark. the eastern united states and eastern asia
trochilidae;hummingbirds
brassicaceae;plants with four-petaled flowers
procellariiformes;petrels. albatrosses. shearwaters. diving petrels
genus thunnus;tunas: warm-blooded fishes
neuroptera;an order of insects including: lacewings. antlions. dobsonflies. alderflies. fishflies. mantispids. spongeflies
genus fumaria;annual herbs whose flowers have only one petal spurred at the base
genus thamnophilus;a genus of formicariidae
genus cacicus;a genus of tropical american orioles
ouranopithecus;a genus of hominidae
lamellicornia;scarabaeid beetles and stag beetles
family bangiaceae;a family of protoctista
genus aphrophora;a genus of cercopidae
anisoptera;dragonflies
myrsine family;family of old world tropical trees and shrubs. some in florida
echinochloa;annual or perennial succulent grasses of warm regions
suborder lemuroidea;lemuridae. lorisidae. daubentoniidae. indriidae. used in some classifications instead of prosimii. in others considered a subdivision of prosimii
rana;type genus of the ranidae
urochorda;tunicates
polychaeta;marine annelid worms
lobeliaceae;not recognized in all classification systems. in some classifications lobeliaceous plants are included in family campanulaceae
order gadiformes;cods, haddocks, grenadiers. in some classifications considered equivalent to the order anacanthini
class reptilia;class of cold-blooded air-breathing vertebrates with completely ossified skeleton and a body usually covered with scales or horny plates. once the dominant land animals
fungia;mushroom corals
draco;flying dagons
genus ravenala;tall-trunked woody tropical plants. sometimes placed in family musaceae
genus hippeastrum;bulbous flowering plants of tropical america
strigidae;a family of nocturnal birds of the order strigiformes
chloranthus;type genus of the chloranthaceae
strain;(biology) a group of organisms within a species that differ in trivial ways from similar groups. 'a new strain of microorganisms'
genus chrysolepis;two species: golden chinkapins
winter s bark family;small family of chiefly tropical shrubs and trees of genera drimys and pseudowintera. sometimes included in magnoliaceae
genus psithyrus;a large bee that resembles the bumblebee but lacks pollen-collecting apparatus and a worker caste
aepyornidae;coextensive with the order aepyorniformes
wolffiella;minute rootless aquatic herbs having flat fronds floating on or below the water surface and bearing 1-2 flowers per frond. america and africa
eurotium;a genus of fungi belonging to the order eurotiales
urocystis;a genus of smut fungi belonging to the family tilletiaceae
genus browmius;cusk
genus coptis;small genus of low perennial herbs having yellow rhizomes and white or yellow flowers
cirsium;plume thistles
lechanorales;category used in some classification systems for all lichens that produce apothecia
sardina;pilchards
genus emmanthe;1 species: yellow bells
order rhamnales;an order of dicotyledonous plants
genus polycirrus;genus of soft-bodied polychete marine worms
selachii;sharks. rays. dogfishes. skates
genus thrips;type genus of the thripidae
coelenterate family;a family of coelenterates
genus alopex;arctic foxes
azollaceae;used in some classifications for the genus azolla
genus gymnura;butterfly rays
canachites;spruce grouse
centaurium;genus of low-growing herbs mostly of northern hemisphere having flowers with protruding spirally twisted anthers
family exocoetidae;flying fishes. closely related to the halfbeaks
hydrangeaceae;sometimes included in the family saxifragaceae
genus sison;stone parsley
genus loiseleuria;1 species: alpine azalea
genus leipoa;mallee fowl
genus templetonia;genus of australian shrubs or subshrubs: coral bush
genus perognathus;pocket mice
genus garrulus;type genus of the garrulinae: old world jays
nudibranchia;comprising numerous marine gastropod mollusks lacking a shell in the adult state and usually having a body like a slug
order notostraca;small freshwater crustaceans with a shield-shaped carapace
oestridae;warble flies
genus thyrsopteris;1 species
family spirillaceae;rigid spirally curved elongate bacteria
cracticidae;australian birds formerly included in the family laniidae
order struthioniformes;a ratite bird order: ostriches and related extinct birds. known from the pleistocene onward
microstomus;a genus of pleuronectidae
prototheria;echidnas. platypus
genus pholidota;genus of mostly epiphytic orchids of indomalaya and western pacific
genus cyamopsis;small genus of annual usually hairy herbs of tropical africa and arabia
leporidae;hares and rabbits
family mimidae;sometimes considered a subfamily of troglodytidae: mockingbirds. catbirds. thrashers
pholidota;pangolins. in some former classifications included in the order edentata
genus alectis;a genus of carangidae
phlox family;a widely distributed family of chiefly herbaceous plants of the order polemoniales. often have showy flowers
dendrocalamus;giant clumb-forming bamboos
genus galago;bush babies
genus costia;a genus of flagellate protoctista
genus spiraea;a dicotyledonous genus of the family rosaceae
family lacertidae;old world lizards
punica;coextensive with the family punicaceae
hypoxidaceae;in some classification systems included in the amaryllidaceae
genus leontopodium;edelweiss
bletilla;small genus of chiefly east asiatic hardy terrestrial orchids similar to genus bletia
oreopteris;3 species of ferns formerly included in genus dryopteris or thelypteris
genus stenotaphrum;lawn grasses
goose grass;annual weedy grass used for hay
family peronosporaceae;parasitic fungi: downy mildews
dacninae;the honeycreepers
proteus;type genus of the proteidae
furnariidae;e.g. ovenbirds
genus vinca;periwinkles: low creeping evergreen perennials
genus hippodamia;genus of ladybugs
ligularia;genus of old world herbs resembling groundsel: leopard plants
zonotrichia;large new world sparrows
mammalia;warm-blooded vertebrates characterized by mammary glands in the female
superfamily;(biology) a taxonomic group ranking below an order but above a family
trichosurus;a genus of phalangeridae
genus verticillium;genus of imperfect fungi having conidia borne singly at the apex of whorled branchlets. cause wilt diseases
class hemiascomycetes;class of fungi in which no ascocarps are formed: yeasts and some plant parasites
lampridae;opahs
miridae;leaf bugs
piqueria;small genus of tropical american perennial herbs or subshrubs with white to pale yellow flowers. often included in genus stevia
mentha;mint plants
genus haemulon;type genus of the haemulidae
family nymphalidae;large beautifully colored butterflies
genus physostegia;genus of north american perennial herbs
family spheniscidae;comprising all existing penguins
genus juglans;type genus of the juglandaceae
ischigualastia;early reptile found in argentina
genus aedes;yellow-fever mosquitos
class onychophora;enigmatic small elongated wormlike terrestrial invertebrates of damp dark habitats in warm regions. distinct from the phylum annelida. resemble slugs with legs and are sometimes described as the missing link between arthropods and annelids
genus celastrus;type genus of the celastraceae: bittersweet and shrubby bittersweet. woody vines and shrubs native chiefly to asia and australia
urocyon;gray foxes
genus spinacia;spinach
chrysothamnus;genus of low branching shrubs of western north america
crocodilia;crocodiles. alligators. caimans. gavials
cetoniidae;considered a separate family in some classification systems
genus retrophyllum;small genus of tropical evergreen dioecious shrubs or trees of oceania and tropical south america
genus carduelis;in some classifications considered the type genus of a subfamily carduelinae of the fringillidae: goldfinches. siskins. redpolls. linnets
genus tomistoma;a genus of malayan crocodiles
irenidae;a family of birds of the suborder oscines
primrose family;a dicotyledonous family of the order primulales with a regular flower. widely distributed in the northern hemisphere
sphyraenidae;monotypic family of large active fishes of tropical and subtropical waters: barracuda
family cortinariaceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order agaricales
cortaderia;tall ornamental grasses of south america and new zealand and new guinea: pampas grass
swertia;genus of herbs of mountains of north america and eurasia and africa
genus caryota;fishtail palms
rickettsiaceae;microorganism resembling bacteria inhabiting arthropod tissues but capable of causing disease in vertebrates
genus cyon;asiatic wild dog
genus phytophthora;destructive parasitic fungi causing brown rot in plants
fagales;an order of dicotyledonous trees of the subclass hamamelidae
genus protohippus;a genus of equidae
lonas;1 species: yellow ageratum
genus centrosema;a genus of chiefly tropical american vines of the family leguminosae having trifoliate leaves and large flowers
genus hyaena;type genus of the hyaenidae
genus strekelia;a monocotyledonous genus of the amaryllis family
glossopsitta;a genus of loriinae
genus hippoglossoides;a genus of pleuronectidae
genus nymphaea;the type genus of the family nymphaeaceae. any of a variety of water lilies
monotremata;coextensive with the subclass prototheria
auriculariales;coextensive with the family auriculariaceae. sometimes included in the order tremellales
geastrum;type genus of geastraceae. fungi whose outer peridium when dry splits into starlike segments
graminaceae;the grasses: chiefly herbaceous but some woody plants including cereals. bamboo. reeds. sugar cane
genus mammillaria;large genus of cacti characterized chiefly by nipple-shaped protuberances or tubercles on their surface
genus mallotus;capelins
vallisneria;eelgrass. eel grass
eburophyton;a monocotyledonous genus of the family orchidaceae
psychotria;tropical chiefly south american shrubs and trees
genus gymnogyps;containing solely the california condor
elm family;a dicot family of the order urticales including: genera ulmus. celtis. planera. trema
sorgo;any of several sorghums cultivated as a source of syrup
fritillaria;fritillary
tricholoma;white-spored agarics with a fleshy stalk and notched gills. of various colors both edible and inedible
genus lygus;plant-sucking bugs
subfamily dorylinae;army ants
genus pteris;large genus of terrestrial ferns of tropics and subtropics. sometimes placed in family polypodiaceae
bacteroides;type genus of bacteroidaceae. genus of gram-negative rodlike anaerobic bacteria producing no endospores and no pigment and living in the gut of man and animals
danaea;fairly small terrestrial ferns of tropical america
mnium;mosses similar to those of genus bryum but larger
genus anomalops;type genus of the family anomalopidae
ascomycotina;a large subdivision of eumycota including hemiascomycetes and plectomycetes and pyrenomycetes and discomycetes. sac fungi. in some classification systems considered a division of the kingdom fungi
genus epilachna;genus of ladybugs native to mexico and central america. both larvae and adults feed on plants
adansonia;baobab. cream-of-tartar tree
genus erianthus;genus of reedlike grasses having spikes crowded in a panicle covered with long silky hairs
halimodendron;1 species: salt tree
poecilocapsus;a genus of miridae
genus galeopsis;erect annual european herbs
gyps;a genus of accipitridae
insecta;insects. about five-sixths of all known animal species
serenoa;one species: saw palmetto
conoclinium;mistflower
drosophyllum;1 species
perilla;small genus of asiatic herbs
rhamnaceae;trees and shrubs usually thorny bearing drupaceous fruit many having medicinal value
dianthus;carnations and pinks
genus calluna;one species
ash leaved maple;common shade tree of eastern and central united states
family adelgidae;plant lice
lythraceae;herbs and shrubs and small trees with pink or purple flowers
subclass phytomastigina;plantlike flagellates containing chlorophyll. often considered unicellular algae
family papaveraceae;herbs or shrubs having milky and often colored juices and capsular fruits
polygonales;coextensive with the family polygonaceae,
scrophulariales;used in some classification systems. often included in the order polemoniales
electrophorus;type genus of the family_electrophoridae. electric eels
family chenopodiaceae;includes spinach and beets
haemoproteidae;bird parasites
myotis;largest and most widely distributed genus of bats
genus sphyrna;type genus of the sphyrnidae
class gastropoda;snails and slugs and their relatives
family hirundinidae;swallows and martins
family thelephoraceae;fungi having leathery or membranous sporaphores
genus paronychia;low-growing annual or perennial herbs or woody plants. whitlowworts
genus tussilago;genus of low creeping yellow-flowered perennial herbs of north temperate regions: coltsfoots. in some classifications includes species often placed in other genera especially homogyne and petasites
genus peromyscus;new world wood mice
telanthera;used in former classifications systems. now included in genus alternanthera
family flacourtiaceae;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs
genus agrostemma;a caryophylloid dicot genus including corn cockles
genus chamaecytisus;small late-flowering trees or subshrubs having yellow to red flowers and leathery or woody pods. often especially formerly included in genus cytisus
squalidae;dogfishes having a spine in each dorsal fin
casmerodius;white egrets
tilia;deciduous trees with smooth usually silver-gray bark of north america and europe and asia: lime trees. lindens. basswood
genus meles;in some classifications: type genus of the subfamily melinae
genus babesia;type genus of the family babesiidae
acherontia;death's-head moth
genus naemorhedus;gorals
chrysaora;a genus of scyphozoa
elapidae;cobras. kraits. mambas. coral snakes. australian taipan and tiger snakes
lufengpithecus;a genus of hominidae
sapotaceae;tropical trees or shrubs with milky juice and often edible fleshy fruit
attalea;unarmed feather palms of central and northern south america
family certhiidae;creepers
homaridae;large-clawed lobsters
family papilionacea;leguminous plants whose flowers have butterfly-shaped corollas. commonly included in the family leguminosae
genus gomphrena;genus of tropical herbs or subshrubs having flowers in close heads. tropical america and australia
pteridium;a genus of ferns belonging to the family dennstaedtiaceae
genus viscum;type genus of the viscaceae: old world evergreen shrubs parasitic on many trees including oaks but especially apple trees, poplars, aspens and cottonwoods
capros;a genus of fish in the family caproidae
strelitzia;small genus of large perennial evergreen herbs having leaves resembling those of banana plants. sometimes placed in family musaceae
genus coereba;type genus of the coerebidae
cytisus;large genus of stiff or spiny evergreen or deciduous old world shrubs: broom
mesocricetus;golden hamsters
genus aspidistra;genus of eastern asiatic herbs. sometimes placed in the family convallariaceae
chelydridae;snapping turtles
genus prunella;small genus of perennial mostly eurasian having terminal spikes of small purplish or white flowers
family ptilonorhynchidae;bowerbirds
genus hydnum;type genus of hydnaceae
genus viola;large genus of flowering herbs of temperate regions
order rosales;in some classifications this category does not include leguminosae
family gramineae;the grasses: chiefly herbaceous but some woody plants including cereals. bamboo. reeds. sugar cane
subkingdom;(biology) a taxonomic group comprising a major division of a kingdom
comptonia;1 species: sweet fern
family arcidae;ark shells
phthirus;true lice: crab lice
genus pagurus;type genus of the family paguridae
genus cocculus;climbing plants or shrubs
trilliaceae;small family of herbs having flowers with 3 petals and 3 sepals. in some classification systems considered a subfamily of the liliaceae
asilidae;robber flies
class cestoda;tapeworms
common snowberry;deciduous shrub of western north america having spikes of pink flowers followed by round white berries
genus spalax;type genus of the spalacidae
genus dactylopius;type genus of the dactylopiidae
family soleidae;soles
certhia;type genus of the certhiidae
tanacetum douglasii;lightly hairy rhizomatous perennial having aromatic feathery leaves and stems bearing open clusters of small buttonlike yellow flowers. sand dunes of pacific coast of north america
genus cetraria;foliose lichens chiefly of northern latitudes
stereospondyli;formerly a suborder of stegocephalia. amphibia having vertebrae whose component elements are fused into a single piece: 'most vertebrates are stereospondylous'
genus pinguinus;great auk
subfamily triglinae;in some classifications considered a subfamily of triglidae comprising searobins having ordinary scales and no barbels (true searobins)
lyginopteridales;fossil gymnospermous trees or climbing plants from the devonian: seed ferns
hexamita;flagellates free-living or parasitic in intestines of birds
family apocynaceae;chiefly tropical trees or shrubs or herbs having milky juice and often showy flowers. many are sources of drugs
albatrellus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family polyporaceae
magnoliidae;a group of families or trees and shrubs and herbs having well-developed perianths and apocarpous ovaries and generally regarded as the most primitive extant flowering plants. contains 36 families including magnoliaceae and ranunculaceae. sometimes classified as a superorder
pleione;small genus of dwarf orchids. india to thailand and taiwan
family dryopteridaceae;alternative names for one of a number of families into which the family polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems
jatropha;a mainly tropical genus of american plant belonging to the family euphorbiaceae
genus dinornis;type genus of the dinornithidae: large moas
cryptocercidae;a family of blattodea
amanita;genus of widely distributed white-spored agarics being poisonous with few exceptions
polygalaceae;trees, shrubs, and herbs widely distributed throughout both hemispheres
genus leontocebus;tamarins
genus linanthus;a genus of herbs of the family polemoniaceae. found in western united states
lactuca;milky-juiced herb: lettuce. prickly lettuce
genus spermophilus;typical ground squirrels
nitrosomonas;ellipsoidal soil bacteria
hyperoodon;bottle-nosed whales
syzygium;a tropical evergreen tree of the myrtle family native to the east indies but cultivated elsewhere
heterotheca;genus of yellow-flowered north american herbs
family odontaspididae;sand sharks. in some classifications coextensive with family carcharhinidae
family cucurbitaceae;a family of herbaceous vines (such cucumber or melon or squash or pumpkin)
order nidulariales;small order of basidiomycetous fungi comprising families nidulariaceae and sphaerobolaceae
genus rattus;common house rats. upper incisors have a beveled edge
tetraneuris;genus of hairy yellow-flowered plants ofwestern united states. includes plants sometimes placed in genus hymenoxys
armadillidiidae;pill bugs
suborder charadrii;shorebirds: plovers. sandpipers. avocets. phalaropes. coursers. stone curlews
lamium;genus of old world herbs: dead nettles. henbits
phallaceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order phallales and comprising the true stinkhorns
actiniopteris;terrestrial ferns of tropical asia and africa
genus notechis;tiger snakes
chlamydiaceae;gram-negative parasites in warm-blooded vertebrates
genus cyphomandra;tree tomato
pluteus;a large genus of fungi belonging to the family pluteaceae. the shape of the cap resembles a roof. often abundant early in the summer
ostracodermi;extinct group of armored jawless vertebrates. taxonomy is not clear
genus rhipsalis;large genus of epiphytic or lithophytic unarmed cacti with usually segmented stems and pendulous branches. flowers are small followed by berrylike fruits
genus aloe;large genus of chiefly african liliaceous plants. in some systems placed in family aloeaceae
phylum phoronida;small phylum of wormlike marine animals
cycadales;primitive tropical gymnosperms abundant in the mesozoic, now reduced to a few scattered tropical forms
collinsia;genus of hardy annual herbs of western united states
genus polemonium;type genus of the polemoniaceae
mammea;american and asiatic trees having edible one-seeded fruit
genus dipsacus;type genus of the dipsacaceae: teasel
genus phragmites;reeds of marshes and riversides in tropical or temperate regions
genus lespedeza;genus of shrubs or herbs of tropical asia and australia and the eastern united states
agaricaceae;large family including many familiar mushrooms
family tarsiidae;coextensive with the genus tarsius: tarsiers
genus glaucomys;new world flying squirrels
genus cercospora;form genus of imperfect fungi that are leaf parasites with long slender spores
deuteromycetes;form class. coextensive with subdivision deuteromycota
genus cladorhyncus;one of two genera of stilts. similar to avocets but with straight bills
genus sorghum;annual or perennial tropical and subtropical cereal grasses: sorghum
genus ortalis;chachalacas
danaus;type genus of the danaidae: monarch butterflies
nyssa;tupelos: deciduous trees of moist habitats especially swamps and beside ponds
hardenbergia;small genus of australian woody vines with small violet flowers. closely related to genus kennedia
gaviiformes;large aquatic birds: loons and some extinct forms
arctonyx;a genus of mustelidae
lesquerella;genus of low-growing hairy herbs: bladderpods
order salicales;coextensive with the family salicaceae
meliphagidae;honey_eaters
genus streptosolen;1 species: marmalade bush
genus zea;corn
cycnoches;genus of epiphytic or terrestrial tropical american orchids
family moraceae;trees or shrubs having a milky juice. in some classifications includes genus cannabis
ranunculus;annual, biennial or perennial herbs: buttercup. crowfoot
family kalotermitidae;primitive termites of warm regions
genus thiobacillus;a genus of bacteria
water milfoil family;a family of dicotyledonous plants of the order myrtales
hydrocharis;frogbit
genus mucuna;genus of tropical herbs and woody vines having trifoliate leaves and showy flowers in axillary clusters
genus sceloporus;spiny lizards
evening primrose family;a large and widely distributed family of plants of the order myrtales
family trephritidae;fruit flies. some leafminers
genus anabrus;a genus of tettigoniidae
myxinoidea;hagfishes as distinguished from lampreys
palaquium;large genus of malaysian trees with milky juice and leathery leaves
genus hygrophorus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family hygrophoraceae
genus sitotroga;grain moths
genus exacum;genus of tropical asiatic and african plants: especially persian violets
family gobiesocidae;clingfishes
cephalobidae;a family of nematoda
genus eunectes;anacondas
family acipenseridae;sturgeons
uvulariaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae
genus umbellularia;aromatic evergreen trees of pacific coast
genus boswellia;genus of incense-yielding trees of north africa and india
genus thymus;large genus of old world mints: thyme
lepidium;cosmopolitan genus of annual and biennial and perennial herbs: cress
epidendrum;large and variable genus of terrestrial or epiphytic or lithophytic orchids of tropical and subtropical americas. some native to united states
myrtus;type genus of the myrtaceae
phylum sipuncula;peanut worms
genus velociraptor;advanced carnivorous theropod
porphyra;a genus of protoctista
genus callinectes;new world blue crabs
genus richea;evergreen trees or shrubs of mountains of australia and tasmania
haliotidae;abalones
antheraea;large moths whose larvae produce silk of high quality
halictidae;a family of small solitary bees. many are valuable pollinators for agriculture
genus arnoseris;lamb succory
cardium;type genus of the family cardiidae: cockles
fabiana;genus of south and central american heathlike evergreen shrubs
genus lentinus;a genus of fungus belonging to the family tricholomataceae
coerebidae;the honeycreepers
pondweed;submerged freshwater perennials
genus anthonomus;weevils destructive of cultivated plants
dendromecon;1 species: bush poppy
genus atticus;atlas moth
genus hyacinthus;sometimes placed in family hyacinthaceae as the type genus
genus stachys;large genus of usually woolly or hairy herbs or subshrubs or shrubs. temperate eastern hemisphere. tropical australasia
hydromantes;web-toed salamanders
family linaceae;a widely distributed family of plants
family pongidae;usually considered as comprising orangutans. gorillas. chimpanzees. and sometimes gibbons
psychopsis;epiphytic orchids of central and south america formerly included in genus oncidium
family sapotaceae;tropical trees or shrubs with milky juice and often edible fleshy fruit
pritzelago;chamois cress
class anthoceropsida;hornworts: in some classification systems included in the class hepaticopsida
chlamyphorus;pichiciago
genus hibbertia;evergreen heathlike or scandent shrubs of madagascar. australasia. polynesia
genus lophophora;two species of small cacti of northeastern mexico and southwestern united states having rounded stems covered with jointed tubercles: mescal
genus columba;type genus of the columbidae: typical pigeons
genus gallinula;gallinules
dimorphotheca;south african herbs or subshrubs with usually yellow flowers
suborder ceratosaura;primitive saurischian dinosaurs
order guttiferales;used in some classifications. coextensive with parietales
leontodon;hawkbit
genus archaeopteryx;a genus of fossil birds
genus physalia;portuguese man-of-war
pempheridae;sweepers
deuteromycotina;large and heterogeneous form division of fungi comprising forms for which no sexually reproductive stage is known: orders sphaeropsidales. melanconiales. moniliales. mycelia_sterilia
division archaebacteria;in some classifications considered a kingdom
genus acrobates;a genus of phalangeridae
genus calycanthus;a magnoliid dicot genus of the family calycanthaceae including: allspice
family lampridae;opahs
genus cimicifuga;small genus of perennial herbs of north temperate regions: bugbane
sclerodermatales;an order of fungi having a peridium surrounding an unchamered gleba (sometimes placed in subclass homobasidiomycetes)
genus bruchus;type genus of the bruchidae
genus caulophyllum;blue cohosh
blighia;small genus of western african evergreen trees and shrubs bearing fleshy capsular three-seeded fruits edible when neither unripe nor overripe
pink family;large family of herbs or subshrubs (usually with stems swollen at the nodes)
genus platymiscium;genus of tropical american trees: quira
liriope;sometimes placed in family convallariaceae: lilyturf
pithecolobium;thorny shrubs and trees of tropical and subtropical america and asia
genus steganopus;a genus of phalaropidae
pandanaceae;family of woody plants of the order pandanales including: pandanus. freycinetia
peziza;type genus of the pezizaceae: a variety of cup fungus
genus wolffia;minute rootless aquatic herbs having globular fronds floating on or near the water surface and bearing one flower per frond
cerambycidae;long-horned beetles
dactylorhiza;genus of terrestrial orchids of europe and asia and north africa
valeriana;genus of widely distributed perennial herbs and some shrubs
pezizales;order of mostly saprophytic fungi having cup-shaped ascocarps
genus lasiurus;a genus of vespertilionidae
saccharomyces;single-celled yeasts that reproduce asexually by budding. used to ferment carbohydrates
centropomus;type genus of the centropomidae: snooks
arthropod family;any of the arthropods
genus bessera;small genus of cormous perennials of mexico. sometimes placed in family alliaceae
genus rudbeckia;north american perennial herbs with showy cone-shaped flower heads
glechoma;ground ivy
callimorpha;cinnabar moths
sclerotiniaceae;a fungus family of order helotiales
discocephali;small order of fishes comprising the remoras
pinaceae;a family of pinaceae
canangium;a genus of malayan tree
green mushroom pimple;a variety of mushroom pimple
genus brassavola;genus of tropical american epiphytic or lithophytic rhizomatous orchids
family troglodytidae;wrens
perdix;a genus of perdicinae
order mallophaga;biting lice
dysdercus;a genus of slender long-legged bugs that feed on the developing seeds of cotton and stain it
order lycoperdales;small order of basidiomycetous fungi having fleshy often globose fruiting bodies. includes puffballs and earthstars
giraffidae;giraffes
subclass selachii;sharks. rays. dogfishes. skates
bonasa;ruffed grouse
lobelia family;not recognized in all classification systems. in some classifications lobeliaceous plants are included in family campanulaceae
laricariidae;armored catfish
makaira;marlins
genus dasyprocta;type genus of the dasyproctidae: agoutis
genus crocodilus;type genus of the crocodylidae
genus corvus;type genus of the corvidae: crows and ravens
genus persoonia;australian undershrubs to small trees: geebungs
genus hygrotrama;a genus of fungi belonging to the family hygrophoraceae
cyprinidae;a family of fish including: carp. tench. roach. rudd. dace
oleaceae;trees and shrubs having berries or drupes or capsules as fruits. sometimes placed in the order oleales: olive. ash. jasmine. privet. lilac
genus calocedrus;tall evergreens of western north america and eastern asia. formerly included in genus libocedrus
ceryle;a genus of birds of the family aldecinidae
class cyclosporeae;in more recent classifications superseded by the order fucales
charadrii;shorebirds: plovers. sandpipers. avocets. phalaropes. coursers. stone curlews
tilapia;a genus of cichlidae
genus sarcorhamphus;usually containing only the king vulture
genus moschus;musk deer
genus ochroma;1 species: balsa
genus gomphotherium;type genus of the gomphotheriidae
genus sisyrinchium;chiefly north american grasslike herbs
amazona;a genus of psittacidae
xanthorrhoeaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
family menispermaceae;herbaceous or woody climbers
genus galium;annual or perennial herbs: bedstraw. cleavers
genus cestum;venus's girdle
mikania;large genus of evergreen lianas of tropical america
family rhinotermitidae;large widely distributed family of termites of temperate to tropical regions
family ibidiidae;ibises
acipenser;type genus of the acipenseridae: sturgeons
pityrogramma;terrestrial tropical ferns having fronds with powdery yellowish or white undersides. sometimes placed in family polypodiaceae or adiantaceae
genus parrotia;1 species: irontree
genus stapelia;genus of evil-smelling cactus-like plants. africa to east india
genus molothrus;cowbirds
family caprifoliaceae;shrubs and small trees and woody vines
genus vipera;type genus of the viperidae
genus gentiana;type genus of the gentianaceae. cosmopolitan genus of herbs nearly cosmopolitan in cool temperate regions. in some classifications includes genera gentianopsis and gentianella
naiadales;an order of aquatic monocotyledonous herbaceous plants
asteroidea;sea stars
reglaecus;type genus of the regalecidae
genus tropaeolum;a tropical american genus of dicotyledonous climbing or diffuse pungent herbs constituting the family tropaeolaceae
genus alternanthera;genus of low herbs of tropical america and australia. includes genus telanthera
phascolarctos;koalas
caenolestes;type genus of the family caenolestidae
genus elaeagnus;oleaster
genus holocentrus;type genus of the family holocentridae. squirrelfishes
albulidae;bonefish
family castoridae;beavers
chelidonium;1 species: greater celandine
rhincodontidae;small-toothed sharks comprising only one species
osmundaceae;large family of ferns widely distributed in temperate and tropical areas
delichon;a genus of hirundinidae
agelaius;red-winged blackbirds
genus diapheromera;a genus of phasmidae
genus cardiospermum;tendril-climbing herbs or shrubs whose seeds have a white heart-shaped spot
order caudata;salamanders. newts. congo snakes
lonicera;woodbine
nepidae;water scorpions
genus pterocarya;asiatic nut trees: wingnuts
order thysanura;firebrats. silverfish. machilids
glareola;type genus of the glareolidae: the pratincoles
genus collinsia;genus of hardy annual herbs of western united states
myxophyceae;former terms for cyanophyceae
gypsophila;mediterranean herbs having small white or pink flowers
tridacnidae;large marine hard-shell clams
genus aerobacter;aerobic bacteria widely distributed in nature
genus lactophrys;a genus of ostraciidae
trapa;small genus of eurasian aquatic perennial herbs: water chestnut
omomyid;extinct tiny nocturnal lower primates that fed on fruit and insects. abundant in north america and europe 30 to 50 million years ago. probably gave rise to the tarsiers. some authorities consider them ancestral to anthropoids but others consider them only cousins
family casuarinaceae;1 genus: casuarina
johnson grass;tall perennial grass that spreads by creeping rhizomes and is grown for fodder. naturalized in southern united states where it is a serious pest on cultivated land
genus stercorarius;type genus of the stercorariidae: jaegers
genus macrotyloma;annual or perennial vines of africa and india and australia. plants often placed in genus dolichos
mammal semnopithecus;langurs
phaethontidae;tropicbirds
order cypriniformes;an order of animals including almost entirely freshwater fishes: characins. loaches. carp. suckers. sometimes classified as a suborder of ostariophysi
vicugna;a genus of camelidae
abronia;genus of western north american herbs having showy flowers
family camelidae;camels and llamas and vicunas
cunonia family;trees or shrubs or climbers. mostly southern hemisphere
genus gadus;type genus of the gadidae: the typical codfishes
genus myxocephalus;grubby
cestum;venus's girdle
cycadofilicales;fossil gymnospermous trees or climbing plants from the devonian: seed ferns
acropora;coelanterate genus of order madreporaria, including staghorn corals
ectopistes;a genus of columbidae
arrhenatherum;oat grass
genus krigia;small herbs closely related to chicory: dwarf dandelions
philophylla;leaf miners
genus pygopus;type genus of the pygopodidae. snake-shaped pleurodont lizard with no forelimbs and only rudimentary hind limbs
genus scabiosa;annual or perennial herbs or subshrubs. mainly mediterranean
genus euterpe;a monocotyledonous genus of graceful palm trees in tropical america
genus cavia;type genus of the caviidae: guinea pigs
genus crocus;a monocotyledonous genus of the family iridaceae
pine family;a family of pinaceae
superfamily hominoidea;anthropoid apes and human beings
oxydendrum;sourwood
genus freesia;cormous perennial herbs. native to south africa
oxyura;ruddy duck
locustidae;short-horned grasshoppers. true locusts
fomes;genus of bracket fungi forming corky or woody perennial shelflike sporophores often of large size. includes some that cause destructive heartrot in trees
genus presbytes;langurs
tectona;small genus of southeastern asian tropics: teak
genus hydrochoerus;a genus of hydrochoeridae
magnoliophyta;comprising flowering plants that produce seeds enclosed in an ovary. in some systems considered a class (angiospermae) and in others a division (magnoliophyta or anthophyta)
genus bubo;a genus of strigidae
genus tagetes;marigolds
formicidae;ants
genus lymantria;type genus of the lymantriidae. a pest (lymantria means 'destroyer')
genus pseudemys;sliders. red-bellied terrapin
caprimulgus;type genus of the caprimulgidae
family moniliaceae;family of imperfect fungi having white or brightly colored hyphae and spores that are produced directly on the mycelium and not aggregated in fruiting bodies
genus ozonium;form genus of imperfect fungi
genus brachinus;bombardier beetles
subclass homobasidiomycetes;category used in some classification systems for various basidiomycetous fungi including e.g. mushrooms and puffballs which are usually placed in the classes gasteromycetes and hymenomycetes
family curculionidae;true weevils: snout beetles
genus choloepus;a genus of megalonychidae
amygdalaceae;used in former classifications for plum and peach and almond trees which are now usually classified as members of the genus prunus
biotype;organisms sharing a specified genotype or the genotype (or peculiarities) so shared
genus parthenocissus;woody vines having disklike tips on the tendrils
chamaecytisus;small late-flowering trees or subshrubs having yellow to red flowers and leathery or woody pods. often especially formerly included in genus cytisus
psephurus;a genus of polyodontidae
anacardium;type genus of the anacardiaceae: cashew
genus scleranthus;small genus of old world weedy prostrate annuals: knawel
genus vedalia;genus of australian ladybugs
genus stephanotis;genus of old world tropical woody vines
genus salicornia;glassworts
thymus;large genus of old world mints: thyme
phasmatidae;stick insects
genus myrtus;type genus of the myrtaceae
genus stenotomus;scups
irena;type genus of the irenidae: fairy bluebirds
zeidae;a family of fish in the order zeomorphi
class magnoliopsida;comprising seed plants that produce an embryo with paired cotyledons and net-veined leaves. divided into six (not always well distinguished) subclasses (or superorders): magnoliidae and hamamelidae (considered primitive). caryophyllidae (an early and distinctive offshoot). and three more or less advanced groups: dilleniidae. rosidae. asteridae
apodemus;old world field mice
edaphosauridae;a family of reptiles of the order pelycosauria
peromyscus;new world wood mice
rhodymeniaceae;a family of protoctista
genus heteromeles;1 species: toyon. in some classifications included in genus photinia
genus gracula;mynas
millet;any of various small-grained annual cereal and forage grasses of the genera panicum, echinochloa, setaria, sorghum, and eleusine
phyllostomidae;new world leaf-nosed bats
genus zoisia;lawn grasses native to southeastern asia and new zealand. grown especially in warm regions
genus elops;type genus of the elopidae: tenpounder
ornithischia;extinct terrestrial reptiles having birdlike pelvises: armored dinosaurs (thyreophorans). bone-headed and horned dinosaurs (marginocephalians). duck-billed dinosaurs (euronithopods)
myomorpha;true rats and mice and related rodents
genus kinosternon;type genus of the kinosternidae
genus varanus;type and sole extant genus of the varanidae
anastatica;one species: rose of jericho. resurrection plant
genus eustoma;small genus of herbs of warm regions of southern north america to northern south america
order heterotrichales;yellow-green_algae with simple or branching filaments. comprising the single family tribonemaceae
pertusaria;crustose lichens that are a source of the dye archil and of litmus
genus helotium;type genus of the helotiaceae
witchgrass;north american grass with slender brushy panicles. often a weed on cultivated land
harpia;a genus of accipitridae
chironomus;type genus of the chironomidae
family desmodontidae;true vampire bats
genus pseudacris;chorus frogs
staphylinidae;rove beetles
polyborus;a genus of falconidae
suborder natantia;shrimp. prawns. etc.
family cruciferae;plants with four-petaled flowers
genus poecilocapsus;a genus of miridae
salpidae;a small family of tunicates in the class thaliacea
monomorium;a genus of formicidae
machilidae;jumping bristletails
talpidae;moles
family portulacaceae;family of usually succulent herbs. cosmopolitan in distribution especially in americas
psittacula;a genus of psittacidae
mirounga;elephant seals
trichechus;type and sole genus of the trichechidae
thyreophoran;armored dinosaurs: stegosaurs and ankylosaurs
parulidae;new world warblers
muridae;originally old world rats now distributed worldwide. distinguished from the cricetidae by typically lacking cheek pouches
coccidia;an order in the subclass telosporidia
blenniidae;a family of fish including: combtooth blennies
hynerpeton;earliest fossil amphibian ever found. of the devonian. found in pennsylvania
symphalangus;used in some classifications for the siamangs
genus triceratops;genus of herbivorous horned dinosaurs
genus regnellidium;1 species of aquatic or semi-aquatic fern
genus coracias;type genus of the coraciidae
chorizagrotis;moths whose larvae are army cutworms
leptoglossus;leaf-footed bugs
xanthomonas;a genus of bacteria similar to pseudomonas but producing a yellow pigment that is not soluble in water
family actinidiaceae;tropical trees or shrubs or woody vines
pitymys;pine mice
genus geoffroea;small genus of shrubs or small trees of tropical and subtropical america
calycanthus family;shrubs or small trees having aromatic bark. the eastern united states and eastern asia
gasterosteidae;sticklebacks
decapoda;lobsters. crayfish. crabs. shrimps. prawns
myrsine;evergreen trees and shrubs having aromatic foliage. africa. asia: new zealand
genus plantago;type genus of the family plantaginaceae. large cosmopolitan genus of mostly small herbs
polyangiaceae;bacteria living mostly in soils and on dung
genus orchis;type genus of the orchid family. hardy terrestrial orchids of the temperate the northern hemisphere
apterygiformes;a ratite bird order: flightless ground birds having vestigial wings and long bills and small eyes: kiwis
genus polypodium;a genus of ferns belonging to the family polypodiaceae and having rounded naked sori
fungi;the taxonomic kingdom of lower plants
crotaphytus;collard lizards
doronicum;genus of eurasian perennial tuberous or rhizomatous herbs: leopard's bane
chronoperates;a reptile genus of therapsida
dendraspis;mambas
genus abies;true firs
dipteronia;small genus of large deciduous shrubs having large clusters of winged seeds that turn red as they mature. central and southern china
riparia;a genus of hirundinidae
class deuteromycetes;form class. coextensive with subdivision deuteromycota
froelichia;genus of erect or procumbent herbs of the americas having spikes of woolly white flowers: cottonweed
genus phyllorhynchus;leaf-nosed snakes
timaliidae;babblers
eelgrass family;used in some classifications: essentially equivalent to potamogetonaceae
cordia;tropical deciduous or evergreen trees or shrubs of the family boraginaceae
hypsiglena;night snakes
genus trautvetteria;small genus of perennial herbs: false bugbane
aleyrodidae;whiteflies
subclass elasmobranchii;sharks. rays. dogfishes. skates
genus argonauta;type genus of the family argonautidae: paper nautilus
tracheophyta;in former classifications: comprising plants with a vascular system including ferns and fern allies as well as seed plants
order urodella;salamanders. newts. congo snakes
dicksoniaceae;tree ferns: genera dicksonia. cibotium. culcita. thyrsopteris
genus trachipterus;type genus of the trachipteridae
genus archeopteryx;a genus of fossil birds
genus circaea;enchanter's nightshade
phaseolus;herbs of warm regions including most american beans
genus bradypus;type genus of the bradypodidae: three-toed sloths
apodidae;swifts. in former classifications included in the order coraciiformes
genus araujia;small genus of south american evergreen vines
melia;type genus of the meliaceae: east indian and australian deciduous trees with leaves resembling those of the ash
family argiopidae;orb-weaving spiders. cosmopolitan
drymoglossum;epiphytic ferns of madagascar to tropical asia and new guinea
serpentes;snakes
limacidae;slugs
family proteidae;mud puppies
phylum ctenophora;comb jellies. sea acorns. a small phylum formerly considered a class of coelenterata
suborder gorgoniacea;red corals and sea fans
genus canna;type and sole genus of the cannaceae: perennial lilylike herbs of new world tropics
family sphingidae;hawkmoths
class scyphozoa;coelenterates in which the polyp stage is absent or at least inconspicuous: jellyfishes
genus tichodroma;wall creepers. in some classifications placed in family sittidae
andrenidae;a large family of solitary short-tongued bees most of which burrow in the ground
argyreia;woody climbers of tropical asia to australia
family chimaeridae;a family of holocephali
genus palometa;a genus of stromateidae
craniata;fishes. amphibians. reptiles. birds. mammals
genus limnodromus;dowitchers
genus anemonella;1 species: rue anemone
brachycome;mostly australian herbs having basal or alternate leaves and loosely corymbose flower heads
batrachoididae;toadfishes. related to anglers and batfishes
genus difflugia;genus of protozoans related to amoeba
order therapsida;extinct mammal-like reptiles found inhabiting all continents from the mid permian to late triassic
acer glabrum;small maple of northwestern north america
olearia;large genus of australian evergreen shrubs or small trees with large daisylike flowers
eschscholtzia;showy herbs of western north america
datura;thorn apple
deuteromycota;large and heterogeneous form division of fungi comprising forms for which no sexually reproductive stage is known: orders sphaeropsidales. melanconiales. moniliales. mycelia_sterilia
uranoscopidae;stargazers
genus pteretis;small genus sometimes included in genus onoclea. in some classifications both genera are placed in polypodiaceae
genus diacalpa;one species: delicate fern of foothills of himalayas
adiantaceae;used in some classification systems for some genera of the family polypodiaceae (or pteridaceae)
trachipterus;type genus of the trachipteridae
family polyangiaceae;bacteria living mostly in soils and on dung
scleroparei;scorpionfishes. sculpins. gurnards. greenlings. flying gurnards
family polynemidae;threadfins
mallophaga;biting lice
fulica;coots
order cyclostomata;primitive jawless aquatic vertebrate: lampreys. hagfishes
plesiosauria;any of the plesiosaurs
order plantaginales;coextensive with the family plantaginaceae
volvariella;an important genus of mushrooms in the orient
genus thermopsis;genus of american and asiatic showy rhizomatous herbs: bush peas
genus phoenicurus;old world thrushes
order batrachia;frogs, toads, tree toads
tautoga;tautogs
pertusariaceae;a fungus family of division lichenes
funkaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted. includes genus hosta
family balanidae;stalkless barnacles
calidris;a genus of scolopacidae
corylaceae;used in some classification systems for the genus corylus
genus pagrus;a genus of sparidae
panax;perennial herbs of eastern north america and asia having aromatic tuberous roots: ginseng
genus lovoa;genus of african timber trees
beaumontia;small genus of evergreen woody vines. east india and asia
genus eumenes;mason wasps
family nyctaginaceae;a family of flowering plants of the order caryophyllales
genus menopon;chicken lice
suborder anisoptera;dragonflies
coeloglossum;terrestrial orchids of cooler parts of north america and europe: satyr orchid
zygomycota;division of fungi having sexually produced zygospores
cacatua;a genus of psittacidae
genus portunus;type genus of the family portunidae
genus thylacinus;tasmanian wolf
serranus;type genus of the serranidae: mostly small pacific sea basses
cyclopterus;type genus of the cyclopteridae: lumpfishes
tolypeutes;a genus of dasypodidae
genus limenitis;mainly dark northern butterflies with white wing bars
genus citharichthys;a genus of bothidae
genus bowiea;small genus of tropical african perennial bulbous herbs with deciduous twining stems. sometimes placed in family hyacinthaceae
bucconidae;puffbirds
order lobata;ctenophore having tentacles only in the immature stage. body compressed vertically having two large oral lobes and four pointed processes
genus galictis;alternative name for the genus grison
rhamnales;an order of dicotyledonous plants
auriculariaceae;fungi having gelatinous sporophores
canis;type genus of the canidae: domestic and wild dogs. wolves. jackals
dalea;indigo bush
family ciconiidae;storks
order erysiphales;saprophytic and parasitic fungi that live on plants
genus chrysobalanus;coco plums
genus hoya;large genus of climbing shrubs of australia and asia and polynesia
class holothuroidea;class of echinoderms including the sea cucumbers
petteria;1 species: dalmatian laburnum
glossinidae;flies closely related to the muscidae: tsetse flies
genus philodendron;any of several tropical american climbing plants with smooth shiny evergreen leaves
arctocephalus;fur seals
sesame family;the family of plants of order polemoniales
serrasalmus;piranhas
family rhamnaceae;trees and shrubs usually thorny bearing drupaceous fruit many having medicinal value
melissa;a genus of old world mints of the family labiatae
mallotus;capelins
layia;genus of western united states annuals with showy yellow or white flowers
sisyrinchium;chiefly north american grasslike herbs
xiphias;type genus of the xiphiidae
genus strymon;large and widely distributed genus of hairstreak butterflies
lichenales;category used especially in former classifications for organisms now constituting the division lichenes
centropus;a genus of cuculidae
monocotyledones;comprising seed plants that produce an embryo with a single cotyledon and parallel-veined leaves: includes grasses and lilies and palms and orchids. divided into four subclasses or superorders: alismatidae. arecidae. commelinidae. and liliidae
amphisbaenidae;worm lizards
family cercidiphyllaceae;1 genus
ostreidae;oysters
dieffenbachia;evergreen perennial herbs of tropical america with lush foliage and poisonous sap. often cultivated as houseplants
division;(botany) taxonomic unit of plants corresponding to a phylum
genus cyrtomium;small genus of tropical asiatic greenhouse ferns. in some classifications placed in polypodiaceae
genus daphnia;water fleas
genus radyera;very small species of shrubs of southern hemisphere: bush_hibiscus
oscines;two names for the suborder of typical songbirds
oxylebius;a genus of hexagrammidae
family ostraciidae;boxfishes
genus chrysolophus;golden pheasants
xantusiidae;night lizards
family pleuronectidae;righteye flounders
hyracotherium;extinct horse genus. formerly called genus eohippus
icteria;new world chats
genus megalobatrachus;giant salamanders. in some classifications included in the genus cryptobranchus
genus colubrina;mostly tropical american shrubs or small trees with small yellowish flowers and yellow or red fruits
family trogonidae;coextensive with the order trogoniformes
genus chaetodon;type genus of the chaetodontidae
antedonidae;feather stars. formerly called family comatulidae
genus paranthias;a genus of serranidae
berberis;large genus of shrubs of temperate zones of new and old worlds
genus blastomyces;genus of pathogenic yeastlike fungi
notechis;tiger snakes
genus taraktogenos;medium to large indo-malayan trees
galium;annual or perennial herbs: bedstraw. cleavers
therapsida;extinct mammal-like reptiles found inhabiting all continents from the mid permian to late triassic
zizania;wild rice
genus citroncirus;a cross between citrus sinensis and poncirus_trifoliata
vigna;genus of vines or erect herbs having trifoliate leaves and yellowish or purplish flowers. of warm or tropical regions. most species often placed in genus phaseolus
subfamily acoraceae;used in some classifications for the genus acorus which is usually assigned to araceae
echinochloa frumentacea;coarse annual grass cultivated in japan and southeastern asia for its edible seeds and for forage. important wildlife food in united states
panicum virgatum;grass of western america used for hay
family fringillidae;finches: goldfinches. bullfinches. chaffinches. siskins. canaries. cardinals. grosbeaks. crossbills. linnets. buntings
melocactus;genus of strongly ribbed globose or spheroid cacti of tropical south and central america and the caribbean
aspergillales;order of fungi having a closed ascocarp (cleistothecium) with the asci scattered rather than gathered into a hymenial layer
genus eragrostis;annual or perennial grasses of tropics and subtropics
pseudobombax;tropical american deciduous shrubs or small trees
capricornis;serows
anogramma;a genus of ferns belonging to the family pteridaceae
araneida;spiders
microstrobos;2 species of small evergreen shrubs of australia and tasmania
order blastocladiales;fungi that carry out asexual reproduction by thick-walled resting spores that produce zoospores upon germination. sometimes placed in class oomycetes
lipotyphla;moles. hedgehogs. true shrews
anomalopidae;a family of fish including: flashlight fishes
phylum;(biology) the major taxonomic group of animals and plants. contains classes
myxocephalus;grubby
genus galax;evergreen herbs of southeastern united states
lycopodiate;club mosses and related forms: includes lycopodiales. isoetales. selaginellales. and extinct lepidodendrales. sometimes considered a subdivision of tracheophyta
genus penstemon;large genus of subshrubs or herbs having showy blue or purple or red or yellow or white flowers. mostly western north america
genus echidnophaga;a genus of siphonaptera
genus castoroides;extinct beavers of the pleistocene. of eastern and southern united states
genus hyphantria;fall webworms
sweet lime;lemon tree having fruit with a somewhat insipid sweetish pulp
genus rickettsia;can cause typhus and rocky mountain spotted fever in humans
genus ferocactus;genus of nearly globular cacti of mexico and southwestern united states: barrel cacti
argusianus;argus pheasants
corvus;type genus of the corvidae: crows and ravens
anomala;genus of beetles whose grubs feed mainly on roots of plants. includes several pests of cultivated grasses
genus hyalosperma;genus of herbs of temperate australia including some from genus helipterum
ailuropodidae;in some classifications considered the family comprising the giant pandas
nepa;type genus of the nepidae: typical elongate-oval water scorpions
family ochnaceae;family of tropical evergreen trees and shrubs with thick shining parallel-veined leaves
genus odontoglossum;large and important genus of tropical american mostly epiphytic orchids. some of the most widely grown species are often placed in other genera
class polychaeta;marine annelid worms
family leiopelmatidae;primitive new zealand frogs
platanistidae;river dolphins
family pteriidae;pearl oysters
family thymelaeaceae;family of tough-barked trees and shrubs and herbs especially of australia and tropical africa
petrocoptis;perennial tussock-forming rock plants. of pyrenees and mountains of northern spain. similar to and sometimes placed in genus lychnis
pyrethrum;used in former classifications for plants later placed in genus chrysanthemum and now often included in genus tanacetum
scyphozoa;coelenterates in which the polyp stage is absent or at least inconspicuous: jellyfishes
genus progne;a genus of hirundinidae
bur reed family;coextensive with the genus sparganium
genus tayassu;type genus of the tayassuidae
chermidae;jumping plant lice
genus maeandra;brain corals
genus gladiolus;gladiolas
yew family;sometimes classified as member of order taxales
pinguinus;great auk
symphoricarpos;deciduous shrubs of north america and central america and china
birch family;monoecious trees and shrubs (including the genera betula and alnus and carpinus and corylus and ostrya and ostryopsis)
clethra;type and sole genus of the clethraceae. deciduous shrubs or small trees: white_alder, summer-sweet
class anthozoa;no alternation of generations the medusoid phase being entirely suppressed: sea anemones. corals
family colchicaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted: colchicum. gloriosa
piperaceae;tropical woody vines and herbaceous plants having aromatic herbage and minute flowers in spikelets
genus trollius;perennial herbs of north temperate regions: globeflowers
genus melia;type genus of the meliaceae: east indian and australian deciduous trees with leaves resembling those of the ash
genus ochna;type genus of ochnaceae. evergreen trees and shrubs of old world tropics
family roccellaceae;a fungus family of division lichenes
mercurialis;a genus of slender herbs belonging to the family euphorbiaceae
lepisosteus;type genus of the lepisosteidae: freshwater gars
muraenidae;marine eels
campanulaceae;in some classifications includes lobeliaciae
haemoproteus;type genus of the family haemoproteidae
phillidae;leaf insects
genus embothrium;small genus of south american evergreen shrubs or small trees with long willowy branches and flowers in flamboyant terminal clusters
genus urocyon;gray foxes
genus artamus;type genus of the artamidae
elanoides;a genus of kites
dentaria;usually included in genus cardamine. in some classifications considered a separate genus
dactylopiidae;cochineal insects
nerium;1 species: oleander
pomolobus;genus to which the alewife is sometimes assigned
genus phaethon;type genus of the phaethontidae
ascomycetes;large class of higher fungi coextensive with division ascomycota: sac fungi
family ixodidae;hard ticks
tillandsia;large genus of epiphytic or terrestrial sparse-rooting tropical plants usually forming dense clumps or pendant masses
selene;a genus of carangidae
orectolobidae;nurse sharks and carpet sharks
family dasyuridae;dasyures. native cats. pouched mice. banded_anteaters. tasmanian devils
andricus;cynipid gall wasps, chiefly affecting oaks
genus glossodia;small genus of australian orchids
pluvianus;coursers
phylum nemertina;proboscis worms
class ulvophyceae;alternative name for the class chlorophyceae in some classifications
pteridospermopsida;extinct gymnosperms most of carboniferous to jurassic: seed ferns and allies
dermochelyidae;sea turtles
family ginkgoaceae;constituting the order ginkgoales. includes the genus ginkgo and extinct forms
oenothera;chiefly north american herbs with usually nocturnal flowers
genus calla;water arum
gobiesox;type genus of the gobiesocidae
genus proteus;type genus of the proteidae
genus gardenia;large genus of attractive old world tropical shrubs and small trees
chauna;crested screamers
family tetraonidae;grouse
malosma;one species. often included in the genus rhus
genus phalanger;type genus of the family_phalangeridae: cuscuses
genus parasitaxus;1 species: parasite yew
family astacidae;crayfish
genus calamus;distinctive often spiny-stemmed palms found as climbers in tropical and subtropical forest
angiospermae;comprising flowering plants that produce seeds enclosed in an ovary. in some systems considered a class (angiospermae) and in others a division (magnoliophyta or anthophyta)
genus fulica;coots
family myricaceae;constituting the order myricales
family atherinidae;small spiny-finned fishes of both salt and fresh water
tridacna;type genus of the family tridacnidae: giant clams
subkingdom parazoa;multicellular organisms having less-specialized cells than in the metazoa. comprises the single phylum porifera
suborder mugiloidea;fishes distinguished by abdominal pelvic fins: families mugilidae. atherinidae. sphyraenidae
xylaria;type genus of xylariaceae. fungi with perithecia in the upper part of erect black woody stromata
anabrus;a genus of tettigoniidae
family cricetidae;mostly small new world rodents including new world mice and lemmings and voles and hamsters
buxaceae;widely distributed evergreen shrubs and trees
genus conospermum;australian shrubs (some trees) with flowers in dense spikes: smoke bush
genus kyphosus;type genus of the kyphosidae
genus armeria;shrubby or herbaceous low-growing evergreen perennials
horehound;any of various aromatic herbs of the genus marrubium
gasterosteus;type genus of the family gasterosteidae
family synchytriaceae;a fungus family of order chytridiales
retama;small genus of mediterranean shrubs. often included in genus genista
family cynipidae;a family of hymenoptera
genus molucella;small genus of aromatic herbs of mediterranean regions. widely cultivated
genus arctonyx;a genus of mustelidae
genus phalacrocorax;type genus: coextensive with the family phalacrocoracidae
tamarisk family;family of desert shrubs and trees (mostly halophytes and zerophytes)
enterobius;pinworms
arcidae;ark shells
richea;evergreen trees or shrubs of mountains of australia and tasmania
family euglenaceae;considered green algae
family peridiniidae;marine and freshwater dinoflagellates
genus prunella;type genus of the prunellidae
oryctolagus;old world rabbits
genus agropyron;perennial grasses of temperate and cool regions: wheatgrass. dog grass
genus proboscidea;in some classifications included in the genus martynia and hence the two taxonomic names for some of the unicorn plants
genus stenotus;genus of western north american low evergreen shrubs growing in dense tufts
stonecrop family;succulent shrubs and herbs
group amentiferae;used in some classification systems for plants that bear catkins
genus procnias;bellbirds
genus amphiuma;congo snakes
genus atropa;belladonna
carrot family;plants having flowers in umbels: parsley. carrot. anise. caraway. celery. dill
genus chamaea;a genus of paridae
genus blaberus;giant cockroaches
malopterurus;electric catfish
magnoliid dicot genus;genus of dicotyledonous flowering plants regarded as among the most primitive of extant angiosperms
family salicaceae;two genera of trees or shrubs having hairy catkins: salix. populus
order acarina;mites and ticks
genus schizaea;type genus of the schizaeaceae cosmopolitan especially in tropics. small leptosporangiate ferns: curly grass fern
genus bulnesia;palo santo
buphthalmum;oxeye
genus hudsonia;small evergreen subshrubs of north america
family theophrastaceae;family of mainly tropical american trees and shrubs similar to those of the myrsinaceae. often included in the myrsinaceae
dorotheanthus;a caryophyllaceous genus of dorotheanthus
actinomyxidia;parasites of worms
genus lastreopsis;tropical terrestrial shield ferns
family psilophytaceae;paleozoic plants
packera;genus of american of east asian perennial herbs with yellow to orange or red flower rays. sometimes included in genus senecio
family hyperodontidae;beaked whales. in some esp. former classifications included in the family physeteridae
genus pterodactylus;a reptile genus of pterodactylidae
genus bibos;wild ox
leptodactylus;type genus of the leptodactylidae. in some classifications placed in the family bufonidae
dicot genus;genus of flowering plants having two cotyledons (embryonic leaves) in the seed which usually appear at germination
genus fucus;type genus of the family fucaceae: cartilaginous brown algae
parmeliaceae;a family of lichens
sea lavender family;perennial herbs and shrubs and lianas. cosmopolitan especially in salt-water areas
allioniaceae;a family of flowering plants of the order caryophyllales
genus hypochaeris;widely distributed genus of milky-juiced herbs including some cosmopolitan weeds
family cotingidae;cotingas. umbrella birds
cyclosorus;small genus of terrestrial ferns of tropical and subtropical southern hemisphere
genus agama;type genus of the agamidae
broomrape family;brown or yellow leafless herbs. sometimes placed in the order scrophulariales
family haloragidaceae;a family of dicotyledonous plants of the order myrtales
genus engraulis;type genus of the family engraulidae
verbesina;herbs and shrubs of warm north america to mexico. includes plants formerly placed in genus actinomeris
heteroscelus;tattlers
genus comandra;small genus of chiefly north american parasitic plants
heracleum;widely distributed genus of plants with usually thick rootstocks and large umbels of white flowers
piperales;piperaceae. saururaceae. chloranthaceae
suborder prosimii;not used in all classifications. in some classifications considered coextensive with the lemuroidea. in others includes both lemuroidea and tarsioidea
genus beroe;coextensive with the class nuda
genus odocoileus;north american deer
genus lebistes;guppies
family hexagrammidae;greenlings
myxobacteriales;an order of higher bacteria
pseudocolus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family clathraceae
genus helianthus;genus of tall erect or branched american annual or perennial herbs with showy flowers: sunflowers
mysticeti;baleen whales: right whales. rorquals. blue whales. humpbacks
family meropidae;bee-eaters
genus alstroemeria;genus of showy south american herbs with leafy stems. sometimes placed in family alstroemeriaceae or in family amaryllidaceae
combretaceae;a family of tropical trees and shrubs of the order myrtales
genus hypochoeris;widely distributed genus of milky-juiced herbs including some cosmopolitan weeds
natantia;shrimp. prawns. etc.
genus ormosia;genus of tropical shrubs and trees having usually odd-pinnate leaves with large leaflets and pink to reddish wood
spinacia;spinach
genus homogyne;small genus of low perennial herbs of montane europe. in some classifications included in genus tussilago
bassariscidae;in some classifications considered a separate family
scincella;a reptile genus of scincidae
latrodectus;venomous spiders
leptotyphlopidae;blind snakes
aix;wood duck and mandarin duck
conilurus;jerboa rats
gymnopilus;a genus of fungus characterized by the orange color of the spore deposit
genus silphium;tall north american perennial herbs
noctuidae;cutworms. armyworms
monodontidae;narwhals
asimina;pawpaw
megalonychidae;two-toed sloths
genus ceryle;a genus of birds of the family aldecinidae
meryta;small to medium evergreen dioecious trees of oceanic climates: puka
dreissena;zebra mussels
blattidae;domestic cockroaches
genus cephalanthera;small genus of temperate old world terrestrial orchids
genus illecebrum;1 species: coral necklace
matteuccia;small genus sometimes included in genus onoclea. in some classifications both genera are placed in polypodiaceae
genus aureolaria;small genus of north american herbs often root-parasitic and bearing golden-yellow flowers. sometimes placed in genus gerardia
gymnomycota;slime molds. organisms having a noncellular and multinucleate creeping vegetative phase and a propagative spore-producing stage: comprises myxomycetes and acrasiomycetes and plasmodiophoromycetes. in some classifications placed in the kingdom_protoctista
family vitaceae;a family of vines belonging to order rhamnales
family selaginellaceae;lesser clubmosses: terrestrial chiefly tropical plants resembling mosses
genus delphinapterus;white whale
durio;a genus of tall asian trees of the family bombacaceae
phylum protozoa;in some classifications considered a superphylum or a subkingdom. comprises flagellates. ciliates. sporozoans. amoebas. foraminifers
auricularia;type genus of the auriculariaceae
genus entomophthora;type genus of the entomophthoraceae. fungi parasitic on insects
tyto;type and only genus of the family tytonidae
genus nephrops;a genus of nephropsidae
collocalia;a genus of apodidae
sonora;ground snakes
nymphalis;type genus of the nymphalidae: mourning cloak butterflies
gambelia;leopard lizards
genus ardisia;tropical evergreen subshrubs (some climbers) to trees of asia and australasia to americas
erythronium;perennial bulbous herbs most of northern united states: dogtooth violet. adder's tongue. trout lily. fawn lily
genus gymnocarpium;oak ferns: in some classification systems included in genus thelypteris
federita;a sudanese sorghum having exceptionally large soft white grains
genus adansonia;baobab. cream-of-tartar tree
haematoxylon;small genus of tropical american spiny bushy shrubs or trees
physalis;ground cherries
pleurobrachia;sea gooseberries
class hepaticae;liverworts: comprises orders anthocerotales. jungermanniales. marchantiales. sphaerocarpales
ostryopsis;deciduous monoecious shrubs of china and mongolia resembling trees of the genus ostrya. sometimes placed in subfamily or family carpinaceae
amphibian genus;any genus of amphibians
order stereospondyli;formerly a suborder of stegocephalia. amphibia having vertebrae whose component elements are fused into a single piece: 'most vertebrates are stereospondylous'
genetta;genets
genus foeniculum;very small genus of aromatic european herbs with pinnately compound leaves and yellow flowers
genus loranthus;type genus of the loranthaceae: 1 species
rupicola;cock of the rocks
genus lagerstroemia;shrubs or small trees of tropical asia and africa usually with showy white, pink, or purplish flowers
orobanchaceae;brown or yellow leafless herbs. sometimes placed in the order scrophulariales
family pholadidae;a family of bivalvia
genus psetta;a genus of bothidae
genus achras;tropical trees having papery leaves and large fruit
psilopsida;whisk ferns. comprising the family psilotaceae or psilotatae: vascular plants with no roots, partial if any leaf differentiation, and rudimentary spore sacs
scarlet maple;maple of eastern and central america. 5-lobed leaves scarlet and yellow in autumn
family steatornithidae;oilbirds
genus erwinia;a genus of bacteria
parkinsonia;small genus of spiny shrubs or small trees
family hypocreaceae;family of fungi having brightly colored fleshy or membranous ascocarps. sometimes placed in its own order hypocreales
genus nipa;monotypic genus of palms of australasia
plagianthus;small genus of shrubs and trees of australia and new zealand
tulestoma;type genus of the tulostomaceae
ichthyosauria;extinct marine reptiles: ichthyosaurs
legume family;a large family of trees, shrubs, vines, and herbs bearing bean pods. divided for convenience into the subfamilies caesalpiniaceae. mimosaceae. papilionaceae
genus daubentonia;type genus. coextensive with the family daubentoniidae
genus negaprion;lemon sharks
order monotremata;coextensive with the subclass prototheria
genus pilularia;pillworts
lysichitum;skunk cabbage
genus triatoma;conenoses
xenosauridae;monotypic family of mexican lizards
genus psychopsis;epiphytic orchids of central and south america formerly included in genus oncidium
platyrrhini;new world monkeys: capuchin. douroucouli. howler monkey. saki. spider monkey. squirrel monkey. titi. uakari. woolly monkey. marmoset. tamarin
desmidiaceae;unicellular algae
genus aglaomorpha;epiphytic ferns of tropical asia
chordeiles;a genus of caprimulgidae
genus spadella;marine worms resembling the sagittas but with a broader body and only one pair of lateral fins
class gymnospermae;plants having naked seeds not enclosed in an ovary. in some systems considered a class (gymnospermae) and in others a division (gymnospermophyta). comprises three subdivisions (or classes): cycadophytina (class cycadopsida) and gnetophytina (class gnetopsida) and coniferophytina (class coniferopsida). in some classifications the coniferophytina are divided into three groups: pinophytina (class pinopsida) and ginkgophytina (class ginkgopsida) and taxophytina (class taxopsida)
genus apogon;type genus of the apogonidae
taxopsida;yews: in some systems classified as a class (taxopsida) and in others as a subdivision (taxophytina) used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
emilia;tropical african herbs
family siluridae;old world catfishes
genus alopius;type genus of the family alopiidae. in some classifications considered a genus of the family lamnidae
lophosoria;1 species: tree fern of central and south america
mutinus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family phallaceae
genus tyrannus;type genus of the tyrannidae: tyrant flycatchers
genus oxyuranus;taipans
order pelecaniformes;pelicans. frigate birds. gannets. cormorants
taraktogenos;medium to large indo-malayan trees
family gerridae;an arthropod family that includes water striders
genus tarrietia;small genus of east asian and australian timber trees
genus alsobia;tropical american herbs sometimes included in genus episcia
orectolobus;carpet sharks
rosid dicot family;a family of dicotyledonous plants
rachycentron;genus and family are coextensive and comprise only the cobia
genus helminthostachys;1 species: terrestrial fern of southeastern asia and australia
genus layia;genus of western united states annuals with showy yellow or white flowers
chilomycterus;burrfishes
didelphidae;opossums
dicrostonyx;pied lemmings
genus aspergillus;genus of common molds causing food spoilage and some pathogenic to plants and animals
genus hippocrepis;species of old world herbs or subshrubs: horseshoe_vetch
sagittaria;genus of aquatic herbs of temperate and tropical regions having sagittate or hastate leaves and white scapose flowers
chara;green algae common in freshwater lakes of limestone districts
genus cattleya;large and highly valued genus of beautiful tropical american epiphytic or lithophytic orchids. the typical orchids. known in many varieties
genus naja;cobras
actiniaria;sea anemones
genus pongo;type genus of the family pongidae: orangutans
genus chamaecyparis;a genus of chamaecyparis
raphidiidae;familyof arthropods of the suborder megaloptera, including snakeflies
enceliopsis;small genus of xerophytic herbs of southwestern united states
genus pogostemon;genus of asiatic shrubs or trees whose leaves yield a fragrant oil
order zeomorphi;dories
annonaceae;chiefly tropical trees or shrubs
oxybelis;vine snakes
bauhinia;mountain_ebony, orchid_tree
genus meriones;a genus of cricetidae
family poeciliidae;topminnows
genus wisteria;asiatic deciduous woody vine having large drooping racemes of white or bluish or purple or pinkish flowers and velvety pods. widely grown as an ornamental
evergreen millet;tall perennial grass that spreads by creeping rhizomes and is grown for fodder. naturalized in southern united states where it is a serious pest on cultivated land
felis;type genus of the felidae: true cats and most wildcats
tingidae;lace bugs
haematopus;oystercatchers
myliobatidae;eagle rays
genus cystophora;hooded seals
megapodiidae;megapodes
genus acer;type genus of the aceraceae. trees or shrubs having winged fruit
genus himantoglossum;small genus of terrestrial orchids of europe and mediterranean region
bloomeria;small genus of bulbous perennial herbs of southwestern united states and mexico. sometimes placed in family alliaceae
family bombyliidae;bee flies
microhylidae;narrow-mouthed toads and sheep frogs. some burrow and some are arboreal. found worldwide
figwort family;a family of dicotyledonous plants of the order polemoniales. includes figwort and snapdragon and foxglove and toadflax and speedwell and mullein. in some classifications placed in the order scrophulariales
cladoniaceae;a family of lichens
genus philomachus;ruffs
genus myrmeleon;type genus of the myrmeleontidae: antlions
order exocycloida;flat sea urchins
sistrurus;pygmy rattlesnakes
class myxomycetes;the class of true slime molds. essentially equivalent to the division myxomycota
nautilidae;spiral-shelled cephalopods
mullidae;goatfishes or red mullets
gadidae;large family of important mostly marine food fishes
order naiadales;an order of aquatic monocotyledonous herbaceous plants
trachurus;scads esp. horse mackerels
crotalidae;new world vipers: pit vipers
order passeriformes;largest order of birds comprising about half the known species: rooks. finches. sparrows. tits. warblers. robins. wrens. swallows. etc.. in four suborders: eurylaimi. tyranni. menurae: oscines or passeres
genus myadestes;solitaires
waterleaf family;perennial woodland herbs
genus aldrovanda;one species: waterwheel plant
genus diapensia;type genus of diapensiaceae
resedaceae;mainly mediterranean herbs: mignonette
mycoplasmatacaea;pleomorphic gram-negative nonmotile microorganism similar to both viruses and bacteria. parasitic in mammals
family juncaceae;tufted herbs resembling grasses: rushes
mollusk genus;a genus of mollusks
stephanomeria;malheur wire lettuce
genus nerium;1 species: oleander
genus palaemon;type genus of the family palaemonidae. widely distributed genus
chilopoda;arthropods having the trunk composed of numerous somites each bearing one pair of legs: centipedes
genus strelitzia;small genus of large perennial evergreen herbs having leaves resembling those of banana plants. sometimes placed in family musaceae
genus tribonema;type genus of tribonemaceae
milkweed family;widely distributed family of herbs and shrubs of the order gentianales. most with milky juice
genus bocconia;tropical american trees or shrubs closely related to genus macleaya
family clinidae;viviparous blennies of temperate and tropical seas
family cobitidae;loaches
genus arenaria;turnstones
antennaria;small woolly perennial herbs having small whitish discoid flowers surrounded by a ring of club-shaped bristles
apidae;honeybees. carpenter bees. bumblebees
dilleniid dicot family;family of more or less advanced dicotyledonous trees and shrubs and herbs
genus areca;a monocotyledonous genus of palm trees
myrciaria;a genus of tropical american trees and shrubs of the myrtle family
copepoda;minute planktonic or parasitic crustaceans
hippoboscidae;winged or wingless dipterans: louse flies
family carcharhinidae;largest family of living sharks. found worldwide esp. in tropical waters. dorsal fin lacks spines: requiem sharks including tiger sharks and soupfin sharks
genus anemopsis;1 species: yerba_mansa
solidago;goldenrod
family hippocastanaceae;trees having showy flowers and inedible nutlike seeds in a leathery capsule
genus phlebodium;chiefly epiphytic tropical ferns with free veins bearing sori
family alopiidae;thresher sharks
genus episcia;genus of tropical american herbs having soft hairy foliage
protista;eukaryotic one-celled living organisms distinct from multicellular plants and animals: protozoa, slime molds, and eukaryotic algae
ondatra;muskrats
charadriidae;plover family
genus melursus;sloth bears. in some classifications not a separate genus from ursus
macroclemys;alligator snapping turtles
family macropodidae;kangaroos. wallabies
genus peneus;type genus of the family peneidae
labyrinthodonta;extinct amphibians typically resembling heavy-bodied salamanders or crocodiles and having a solid flattened skull and conical teeth. devonian through triassic
percophidae;percoid flatheads
genus zinnia;genus of annual or perennial plants of tropical america having solitary heads of brightly colored flowers
genus ageratina;annual to perennial herbs or shrubs of eastern united states and central and south america
gruiformes;inland marsh-dwelling birds with long legs and necks and bills that wade in water in search of food: cranes. rails. bustards
genus nepenthes;pitcher plants
pteridaceae;one of a number of families into which the family polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems. pteridaceae is itself in turn sometimes subdivided into the families actiniopteridaceae. adiantaceae. cryptogrammataceae. includes genera acrostichum. adiantopsis. adiantum. anogramma. bommeria. cheilanthes. coniogramme. doryopteris. gymnopteris. hemionitis. jamesonia. paraceterach. pellaea. pityrogramma. pteris. ptilopteris
oleandra;or family polypodiaceae: tropical epiphytic or terrestrial ferns
ensis;razor clams
hygrotrama;a genus of fungi belonging to the family hygrophoraceae
family lauraceae;a family of lauraceae
regalecidae;ribbonfishes
hedysarum;genus of herbs of north temperate regions
stenopelmatidae;long-horned grasshoppers
genus synercus;cape buffalo
subfamily corylaceae;used in some classification systems for the genus corylus
genus albula;type and sole genus of the family albulidae
clubmoss family;a family of ferns belonging to the order lycopodiales
avahi;a genus of indriidae
corkwood family;coextensive with the genus leitneria. commonly isolated in a distinct order
bromeliaceae;a family of tropical american plants of order xyridales including several (as the pineapple) of economic importance
order lichenales;category used especially in former classifications for organisms now constituting the division lichenes
rynchopidae;coextensive with the genus rynchops: skimmers
aplodontiidae;mountain beavers
family drepanididae;hawaiian honeycreepers
prumnopitys;mostly dioecious evergreen conifers. leaves are softer than in podocarpus
genus lepidobotrys;a genus of dicotyledonous trees belonging to the family lepidobotryaceae
family belonidae;ferocious fishes of warm regions resembling but unrelated to the freshwater gars
pseudococcidae;scale-like insects: mealybugs
indian millet;sorghums of dry regions of asia and north africa
aconitum;genus of poisonous plants of temperate regions of northern hemisphere
genus besseya;genus of north american spring wildflowers
ceratopetalum;a dicotyledonous genus of the family cunoniaceae
oniscus;type genus of the oniscidae. woodlice that cannot roll into a ball
monochamus;sawyer beetles
genus jasminum;shrubs and woody climbers mostly of tropical and temperate old world: jasmine. jessamine
genus nidularia;type genus of the nidulariaceae
ginkgophytina;ginkgos: in some systems classified as a class (ginkgopsida) and in others as a subdivision (ginkgophytina or ginkgophyta). used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
sternotherus;musk turtles
codariocalyx;used in some classifications for plants usually included in genus desmodium
family dioscoreaceae;yams
agropyron;perennial grasses of temperate and cool regions: wheatgrass. dog grass
cyclostomata;primitive jawless aquatic vertebrate: lampreys. hagfishes
family macruridae;grenadiers
apogon;type genus of the apogonidae
athene;a genus of strigidae
family nostocaceae;blue-green algae
polydactylus;a genus of polynemidae
ivy family;mostly tropical trees and shrubs and lianas: ginseng. hedera
genus bacteroides;type genus of bacteroidaceae. genus of gram-negative rodlike anaerobic bacteria producing no endospores and no pigment and living in the gut of man and animals
genus heliamphora;genus of pitcher plants of guiana highlands of south america
genus ptloris;a genus of paradisaeidae
carcharodon;man-eating sharks
genus lagidium;a genus of chinchillidae
liopelma;type and sole genus of the family leiopelmatidae
elops;type genus of the elopidae: tenpounder
genus rhodymenia;type genus of the family rhodymeniaceae
sturnella;a genus of passerine birds including the meadowlarks
genus heloderma;type genus of the helodermatidae. american venomous lizards
genus listera;genus of terrestrial orchids having usually a single pair of broad shining leaves at midstem. temperate asia and north america and europe
merops;type genus of the meropidae
ericales;ericaceae. clethraceae. diapensiaceae. epacridaceae. lennoaceae. pyrolaceae. monotropaceae
family plasmodiophoraceae;family of fungi often causing hypertrophy in seed plants
genus crangon;type genus of the family crangonidae
tamiasciurus;american red squirrels
genus macrocheira;giant crabs of japan
magicicada;seventeen-year locust
najadaceae;monotypic family of aquatic plants having narrow leaves and small flowers
hydrochoerus;a genus of hydrochoeridae
mespilus;medlars
castanospermum;a rosid dicot genus of the subfamily apilionoideae having one species: moreton bay chestnut
plantae;the taxonomic kingdom comprising all living or extinct plants
genus euphagus;a genus of icteridae
genus himantopus;major one of two genera of stilts. similar to avocets but with straight bills
genus priodontes;solely the giant armadillo
genus zizania;wild rice
trialeurodes;a genus of aleyrodidae
cladrastis;yellowwoods
genus hemigalus;banded palm civets
dimocarpus;longan
subclass hamamelidae;a group of chiefly woody plants considered among the most primitive of angiosperms. perianth poorly developed or lacking. flowers often unisexual and often in catkins and often wind pollinated. contains 23 families including the betulaceae and fagaceae (includes the amentiferae). sometimes classified as a superorder
genus salvia;large genus of shrubs and subshrubs of the mint family varying greatly in habit: sage
genus selene;a genus of carangidae
synchytrium;simple parasitic fungi including pond scum parasites
kiggelaria;small genus of south african shrubs or small trees
genus brachychiton;australian trees (usually with swollen trunks)
collinsonia;small genus of perennial erect or spreading aromatic herbs. united states
worm family;a family of worms
genus stictopelia;a genus of columbidae
pontederia;pickerelweed
genus pithecia;sakis
citellus;typical ground squirrels
pterocnemia;a genus of birds of the family rheidae
phasmatodea;in some classifications considered a suborder of orthoptera: stick insects. leaf insects
genus micropterus;american freshwater black basses
genus limnocryptes;snipe
genus monardella;a genus of fragrant herbs of the family labiatae in the western united states
genus cirsium;plume thistles
alouatta;howler monkeys
notemigonus;golden shiners
soleidae;soles
myadestes;solitaires
genus amoeba;protozoan inhabiting moist soils or bottom vegetation in fresh or salt water
scarabaeidae;scarab or dung beetles
gyrinidae;whirligig beetles
ageratina;annual to perennial herbs or shrubs of eastern united states and central and south america
family cicadidae;cicadas
genus caiman;caimans
pachycephala;arboreal insectivorous birds
genus amaranthus;large widely distributed genus of chiefly coarse annual herbs
genus zygnema;type genus of the family zygnemataceae
hemiprocnidae;tree swifts
pleurotus;white-spored agarics with caps having an eccentric stem. an important mushroom of japan
genus maxillaria;large genus of tropical american epiphytic orchids with persistent leathery leaves and single-flowered scapes
suborder theropoda;carnivorous saurischian dinosaurs with short forelimbs. jurassic and cretaceous
scutellaria;skullcap. helmet flower
cryptomeria;japanese cedar. sugi
rallidae;rails. crakes. gallinules. coots
anas;type genus of the anatidae: freshwater ducks
genus trichecus;type and sole genus of the trichechidae
strepera;bell magpies
family amaranthaceae;cosmopolitan family of herbs and shrubs
family punicaceae;1 species: pomegranates
genus spraguea;small genus of usually perennial herbs having deep woody taproots and flower heads of umbels or cymes
family dytiscidae;water beetles
genus corticium;genus of fungi having simple smooth-surfaced sporophores. some are parasitic on wood or economic crops. some species formerly placed in form genus rhizoctinia
solenopsis;fire ants
genus marsilea;clover ferns
corypha;large fan palms of tropical asia to australia
astroloma;evergreen shrubs of australia and tasmania
platyctenea;an order of tentaculata
psophocarpus;species of tropical asian and african climbing herbs
genus goniopteris;terrestrial ferns of florida and west indies to central and south america
thymelaeales;myrtaceae. combretaceae. elaeagnaceae. haloragidaceae. melastomaceae. lecythidaceae. lythraceae. rhizophoraceae. onagraceae. lecythidaceae. punicaceae
subfamily cetoniidae;considered a separate family in some classification systems
genus curcuma;tropical asiatic perennial herbs
falco;a genus of falconidae
genus tricholoma;white-spored agarics with a fleshy stalk and notched gills. of various colors both edible and inedible
nepenthes;pitcher plants
phasmidae;stick insects
genus rynchops;type genus of the rynchopidae: skimmers
clavariaceae;fleshy fungi: coral fungi
genus nothofagus;beeches of temperate southern hemisphere except africa: southern beech
genus pistacia;a dicotyledonous genus of trees of the family anacardiaceae having drupaceous fruit
chondrichthyes;cartilaginous fishes
tradescantia;spiderworts
genus rhododendron;large genus of evergreen shrubs native to cooler regions of the northern hemisphere having showy flowers
typhaceae;perennial marsh plants with creeping rootstocks and long linear leaves
genus smiledon;saber-toothed tigers
class hexapoda;insects. about five-sixths of all known animal species
genus blarina;shrews
streptopelia;turtledoves
ceratotherium;african genus
pinnotheres;type genus of the family pinnotheridae: pea crabs
platylobium;small genus of australian evergreen leguminous shrubs or subshrubs
genus cacajao;uakaris
protura;minute wingless arthropods: telsontails
clethrionomys;a genus of cricetidae
genus ozothamnus;genus of australian shrubs and perennial herbs. sometimes included in genus helichrysum
genus ovalipes;a genus of portunidae
family pleurobrachiidae;sea gooseberries
genus streptocarpus;large genus of usually stemless african or asian herbs: cape primrose
family polygonaceae;a family of plants of order polygonales chiefly of the north temperate zone. includes the buckwheats
subfamily pythoninae;old world boas: pythons. in some classifications considered a separate family from boidae
genus chamaedaphne;1 species: leatherleaf
bladdernut family;a family of dicotyledonous plants of order sapindales found mostly in the north temperate zone
genus linaria;genus of herbs and subshrubs having showy flowers: spurred snapdragon
crocodylus;type genus of the crocodylidae
genus aphriza;a genus of scolopacidae
genus clusia;tropical american aromatic trees or shrubs. often epiphytic or hemi-epiphytic. some stranglers
family enterobacteriaceae;enterobacteria
isopyrum;tufted perennial herbs of northern hemisphere
batrachia;frogs, toads, tree toads
thunbergia;a genus of herbs or vines of the family acanthaceae
genus tamiasciurus;american red squirrels
cypripedia;a plant or flower of the genus cypripedium
nummulitidae;a family of fossil protoctists
hygrocybe;a genus of fungi belonging to the family hygrophoraceae
family aloeaceae;one of many families or subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
octopodidae;a family of octopoda
genus carthamus;safflower
physeteridae;sperm whales
linaria;genus of herbs and subshrubs having showy flowers: spurred snapdragon
genus porphyrula;american purple gallinules
genus artemisia;usually aromatic shrubs or herbs of north temperate regions and south africa and western south america: wormwood. sagebrush. mugwort. tarragon
family viscaceae;in some classifications considered a subfamily of loranthaceae
order actiniaria;sea anemones
genus raffia;feather palm of tropical africa and madagascar and central and south america widely grown for commercial purposes
limnobium;american frogbit
tragulus;type genus of the tragulidae
amiidae;only the bowfins
genus blennius;type genus of the blenniidae
gasterophilus;type genus of the gasterophilidae: horse botflies
genus emilia;tropical african herbs
muscari;sometimes placed in family hyacinthaceae
genus lathyrus;genus of climbing herbs of old world and temperate north and south america: vetchling. wild pea
heloderma;type genus of the helodermatidae. american venomous lizards
hazardia;small genus of shrubs and subshrubs of western united states having flowers that change color as they mature
selaginella eremophila;prostrate spikemoss. california
genus hepatica;small genus of perennial herbs of north temperate regions. allied to genus anemone
celosia;annual or perennial herbs or vines of tropical and subtropical america and asia and africa
austrocedrus;one species. formerly included in genus libocedrus
genus coronilla;genus of old world shrubs and herbs
subfamily numididae;guinea fowl and related birds of africa and madagascar
lactobacillaceae;lactic acid bacteria and important pathogens. bacteria that ferment carbohydrates chiefly into lactic acid
family burseraceae;resinous or aromatic chiefly tropical shrubs or trees
family phalangiidae;a family of phalangida
erinaceus;type genus of the family erinaceidae: hedgehogs
ulvophyceae;alternative name for the class chlorophyceae in some classifications
microsporum;a genus of fungus of the family moniliaceae. causes ringworm
morone;carnivorous fresh and salt water fishes
cacajao;uakaris
family plataleidae;spoonbills
genus canachites;spruce grouse
asteridae;a group of mostly sympetalous herbs and some trees and shrubs mostly with 2 fused carpels. contains 43 families including solanaceae. scrophulriaceae. labiatae. verbenaceae. rubiaceae. compositae. sometimes classified as a superorder
thymelaeaceae;family of tough-barked trees and shrubs and herbs especially of australia and tropical africa
genus sparganium;type and sole genus of sparganiaceae. marsh or aquatic herbs of temperate regions
division cyanophyta;prokaryotic organisms sometimes considered a class or phylum or subkingdom. coextensive with the cyanophyceae: cyanobacteria (blue-green algae)
valerian family;genus of mostly herbs having a characteristic fetid odor
family doliolidae;oceanic tunicates
family cactaceae;constituting the order opuntiales
genus stevia;genus of shrubs and herbs of tropical and warm americas
gliridae;dormice and other old world forms
caulophyllum;blue cohosh
class insecta;insects. about five-sixths of all known animal species
sphyraena;type and sole genus of the sphyraenidae: barracuda
genus spartium;1 species: spanish broom
genus austrocedrus;one species. formerly included in genus libocedrus
reptile genus;a genus of reptiles
cynodon;creeping perennial grasses of tropical and southern africa
ratibida;genus of perennial wildflowers of north american plains and prairies. often cultivated for their showy flower heads
genus acocanthera;small genus of trees and shrubs containing strongly toxic cardiac glycosides. arabia to africa
tautogolabrus;a genus of labridae
order arales;araceae. lemnaceae
genus tephrosia;genus of tropical and subtropical herbs or shrubs: hoary peas
genus meniscium;terrestrial ferns of tropical americas
family ailuropodidae;in some classifications considered the family comprising the giant pandas
genus centropus;a genus of cuculidae
genus cantharellus;a well-known genus of fungus. has funnel-shaped fruiting body. includes the chanterelles
juglandaceae;trees having usually edible nuts: butternuts. walnuts. hickories. pecans
ixodes;type genus of the family ixodidae
genus bomarea;large genus of tropical american vines having showy often spotted umbellate flowers. sometimes placed in family liliaceae especially subfamily alstroemeriaceae
subclass rhizopoda;creeping protozoans: amoebas and foraminifers
genus coelophysis;late triassic carnivorous saurischian dinosaurs
dactylopteridae;flying gurnards
oryzopsis;rice grass
genus portulaca;genus of mainly tropical fleshy or trailing herbs
family platycephalidae;scorpaenoid flatheads
family zeidae;a family of fish in the order zeomorphi
genus erinaceus;type genus of the family erinaceidae: hedgehogs
liopelmidae;primitive new zealand frogs
psilotales;lower vascular plants having dichotomously branched sporophyte divided into aerial shoot and rhizome and lacking true roots
carabidae;ground beetles
family saxifragaceae;a large and diverse family of evergreen or deciduous herbs. widely distributed in northern temperate and cold regions. sometimes includes genera of the family hydrangeaceae
genus glaux;sea milkwort
genus steatornis;type and sole genus of the family steatornithidae
genus helix;type genus of the family helicidae
genus cryptotermes;genus of dry wood termites. cosmopolitan. sometimes considered a subgenus of kalotermes
genus bruckenthalia;1 species: spike heath
bacteria family;a family of bacteria
family ameiuridae;north american catfishes
family commelinaceae;large widely distributed family of chiefly perennial herbs or climbers: spiderworts
psettichthys;a genus of soleidae
sagittarius;type family of the sagittariidae
genus synanceja;stonefishes
pedaliaceae;the family of plants of order polemoniales
genus aristolochia;birthworts. dutchman's pipe
ebenales;trees or shrubs of the families ebenaceae or sapotaceae or styracaceae or symplocaceae
family caryophyllaceae;large family of herbs or subshrubs (usually with stems swollen at the nodes)
thalarctos;polar bears. in some classifications not a separate genus from ursus
antilocapra;type and sole genus of the antilocapridae comprising one species
genus scorpaena;type genus of the scorpaenidae: scorpionfishes
hystricomorpha;an order of rodents including: porcupines. guinea pigs. chinchillas. etc.
blissus;chinch bugs
fish genus;any of various genus of fish
sarcoptidae;small whitish mites
bartramia;a genus of scolopacidae
genus harpullia;genus of tropical asiatic and african trees
lycopodium;type and sole genus of the lycopodiaceae. erect or creeping evergreen plants often used for christmas decorations
class basidiomycetes;large class of higher fungi coextensive with subdivision basidiomycota
genus ancylus;type genus of the family ancylidae: river limpet
genus trifolium;any leguminous plant having leaves divided into three leaflets
genus sardinia;pilchards
brachiopoda;marine invertebrates that resemble mollusks
genus anomala;genus of beetles whose grubs feed mainly on roots of plants. includes several pests of cultivated grasses
umbellularia;aromatic evergreen trees of pacific coast
order isoetales;aquatic or marsh-growing fern allies. known to have existed since the cenozoic. sometimes included in lycopodiales
saprolegniales;order of chiefly aquatic fungi
rhexia;deer grass
ormosia;genus of tropical shrubs and trees having usually odd-pinnate leaves with large leaflets and pink to reddish wood
genus orthotomus;tailorbirds
genus protoavis;extinct primitive birds of the triassic period. 70 million years before archaeopteryx
genus dracunculus;tuberous herbaceous perennials: dragon arum
homoptera;plant lice (aphids). whiteflies. cicadas. leafhoppers. plant_hoppers. scale insects and mealybugs. spittle insects
family belemnitidae;family of extinct mesozoic cephalopods
ziphiidae;beaked whales. in some esp. former classifications included in the family physeteridae
order myxobacteria;an order of higher bacteria
genus athene;a genus of strigidae
sambucus;elder. elderberry
genus valerianella;genus of old world annual herbs widely naturalized
rosellinia;fungi having smooth perithecia with dark one-celled ascospores
genus minuartia;mostly perennial herbs of northern hemisphere often with mat-forming habit. most often placed in genus arenaria: sandworts
family primulaceae;a dicotyledonous family of the order primulales with a regular flower. widely distributed in the northern hemisphere
alectura;brush turkeys
superfamily apoidea;bees
spilogale;a genus of mustelidae
rypticus;a genus of fish of the family serranidae, including soapfishes (sometimes placed in the family grammistidae)
family notonectidae;aquatic carnivorous insects
molidae;ocean sunfishes
genus panicum;panic grass
tremellaceae;a family of basidiomycetous fungi of the order tremellales that have the basidium divided longitudinally
hamamelid dicot genus;genus of mostly woody relatively primitive dicotyledonous flowering plants with flowers often unisexual and often borne in catkins
walnut family;trees having usually edible nuts: butternuts. walnuts. hickories. pecans
group pteridospermaphyta;used in some classification systems: a group of extinct fossil gymnosperms coextensive with the order cycadofilicales
genus aplysia;type genus of the family aplysiidae
astacus;type genus of the family astacidae. old world crayfish
ptilocercus;pentails
scincidae;skinks
genus eriophyllum;genus of hairy herbs and shrubs of western north america
naucrates;a genus of carangidae
saxifraga;type genus of the saxifragaceae. large genus of usually perennial herbs of arctic and cool regions of northern hemisphere: saxifrage
sponge genus;a genus of porifera
echinops;genus of mediterranean and eurasian herbs: globe thistles
artamus;type genus of the artamidae
genus poephila;grassfinches
order tulostomatales;an order of fungi belonging to the class gasteromycetes
genus cortaderia;tall ornamental grasses of south america and new zealand and new guinea: pampas grass
family rhinobatidae;primitive rays with guitar-shaped bodies
brotulidae;chiefly deep-sea fishes related to the ophidiidae
genus eruca;annual to perennial herbs of the mediterranean region
family liparidae;snailfishes
family chrysopidae;green lacewings
genus platypoecilus;platys
cyprinus;type genus of the family cyprinidae: carp
genus hygrocybe;a genus of fungi belonging to the family hygrophoraceae
genus poecilogale;muishonds
genus chrysophyllum;tropical american evergreen trees or shrubs
cyrtomium;small genus of tropical asiatic greenhouse ferns. in some classifications placed in polypodiaceae
phylloporus;a genus of fungi belonging to the family boletaceae
order siphonophora;marine colonial hydrozoans
family anniellidae;legless lizards
genus entoloma;pink-spored agarics lacking both volva and annulus and including some that are poisonous
psychodidae;very small two-winged flies with hairy wings that develop in moss and damp vegetable matter: sand flies
order stegocephalia;in former classifications a division of amphibia comprising all pre-jurassic and some later extinct large salamandriform amphibia
mylodontidae;extinct south american edentates
family cardiidae;somewhat heart-shaped sand-burrowing bivalve mollusks
hipposideros;horseshoe bats
helvella sulcata;a helvella with an irregularly convoluted cap that is dark brown when young and becomes dull gray with age. the lower surface of the cap is smooth and pale gray. the stalk is thick and deeply fluted
lanius;type genus of the laniidae: typical shrikes
genus rhinonicteris;orange horseshoe bats
cycliophora;tiny marine organisms each the size of a period found in great numbers on lobsters' lips. identified tentatively in 1995 as a new phylum or as possible link between entoprocta and ectoprocta
order torpediniformes;rays with torpedo-shaped bodies
sium;perennial of wet and marshy places in the northern hemisphere: water parsnips
genus anogramma;a genus of ferns belonging to the family pteridaceae
mercenaria;a genus of veneridae
aphrophora;a genus of cercopidae
genus bougainvillaea;ornamental tropical woody vines
genus cetonia;a genus of cetoniidae
genus cyclophorus;tropical old world ferns having closely crowded circular sori and no indusia
periplaneta;cosmopolitan genus of large cockroaches
family pelobatidae;spadefoot toads
genus astroloma;evergreen shrubs of australia and tasmania
hepaticae;liverworts: comprises orders anthocerotales. jungermanniales. marchantiales. sphaerocarpales
genus psilophyton;type genus of the psilophytaceae: genus of small wiry herbaceous paleozoic plants with underground rhizomes and apical sporangia
psoralea;widely distributed genus of herbs or shrubs with glandular compound leaves and spicate or racemose purple or white flowers
kingdom fungi;the taxonomic kingdom of lower plants
litocranius;e african antelopes: gerenuks
umbrina;croakers
genus apus;type genus
family tupaiidae;tree shrews. in some classifications tree shrews are considered prosimian primates
pagophila;a genus of laridae
genus perdix;a genus of perdicinae
frasera;genus of north american herbs: columbo. includes some species sometimes placed in genus swertia
genus capparis;tropical or subtropical evergreen shrubs or small trees
suborder lipotyphla;moles. hedgehogs. true shrews
sarcosporidia;imperfectly known parasites of the muscles of vertebrates
solenogastres;an order of amphineura
paliurus;thorny eurasian shrubs
genus auriparus;a genus of paridae
sparaxis;deciduous perennial herbs of south africa
genus banksia;important genus of australian evergreen shrubs or trees with alternate leathery leaves and yellowish flowers
ara;macaws
genus leptotyphlops;blind snakes of asia and africa and americas
genus larix;larches
neoceratodus;extant australian lungfishes
gavia;type genus of the gavidae: loons
genus selaginella;type and sole genus of the selaginellaceae. evergreen mosslike plants: spike moss and little club moss
tayassu;type genus of the tayassuidae
genus aralia;type genus of araliaceae. large widely distributed genus of shrubs and trees and vines: spikenard. hercules'-club
branchiostomidae;lancelets
numenius;curlews
genus peziza;type genus of the pezizaceae: a variety of cup fungus
podargidae;frogmouths
genus phalaris;a genus of grasses with broad leaves and a dense spike of flowers
genus ranatra;elongate very slender water scorpions
ciconiiformes;order of chiefly tropical marsh-dwelling fish-eating wading birds with long legs and bills and (except for flamingos) unwebbed feet: herons. storks. spoonbills. flamingos. ibises
genus muscicapa;type genus of the muscicapidae
genus popillia;a genus of scarabaeidae
narthecium;bog asphodels. sometimes placed in family melanthiaceae
variant;(biology) a group of organisms within a species that differ in trivial ways from similar groups. 'a new strain of microorganisms'
linden family;chiefly trees and shrubs of tropical and temperate regions of especially southeastern asia and brazil. genera tilia. corchorus. entelia. grewia. sparmannia
tribonema;type genus of tribonemaceae
superfamily tineoidea;clothes moths. carpet moths. leaf miners
genus rhyacotriton;olympic salamanders
family antilocapridae;comprising only the pronghorns
agrostis;annual or perennial grasses cosmopolitan in northern hemisphere: bent grass (so named from 'bent' meaning an area of unfenced grassland)
genus salamandra;type genus of the salamandridae
genus phascogale;pouched mice
bettongia;jerboa kangaroo
xanthium;coarse herbs having small heads of greenish flowers followed by burrs with hooked bristles
rosales;in some classifications this category does not include leguminosae
genus malopterurus;electric catfish
genus branchiobdella;type genus of the branchiobdellidae: a small worm that lives on the gills or surface of a crayfish attached by a sucker
hexagrammidae;greenlings
family turdidae;thrushes. in some classifications considered a subfamily (turdinae) of the family_muscicapidae
family volvariaceae;a family of fungi belonging to the order agaricales
genus utricularia;bladderworts: large genus of aquatic carnivorous plants. cosmopolitan in distribution
ceratopsia;horned dinosaurs
genus chlorophyllum;a genus of fungus belonging to the family lepiotaceae
tragelaphus;african antelopes: kudus. bongos. nyalas. bushbucks
genus arenaria;sandworts
sterninae;terns
chamaea;a genus of paridae
eptesicus;a genus of vespertilionidae
genus damaliscus;african antelopes: sassabies
leontocebus;tamarins
crossopterygii;fishes having paired fins resembling limbs and regarded as ancestral to amphibians
tarsiidae;coextensive with the genus tarsius: tarsiers
arizona;glossy snake
genus cyathea;type genus of the cyatheaceae: tree ferns of the tropical rain forest to temperate woodlands
prionace;blue sharks
kingdom animalia;taxonomic kingdom comprising all living or extinct animals
genus pyrausta;moths whose larvae are corn borers
genus pseudotsuga;douglas fir. closely related to genera larix and cathaya
genus treponema;type genus of treponemataceae: anaerobic spirochetes with an undulating rigid body. parasitic in warm-blooded animals
family tetragoniaceae;succulent herbs or small shrubs mostly of south africa but also new zealand and north america: carpetweeds. fig marigolds
sorghum vulgare rosburghii;sorghum having slender dry stalks and small hard grains. introduced into united states from india
gymnospermophyta;plants having naked seeds not enclosed in an ovary. in some systems considered a class (gymnospermae) and in others a division (gymnospermophyta). comprises three subdivisions (or classes): cycadophytina (class cycadopsida) and gnetophytina (class gnetopsida) and coniferophytina (class coniferopsida). in some classifications the coniferophytina are divided into three groups: pinophytina (class pinopsida) and ginkgophytina (class ginkgopsida) and taxophytina (class taxopsida)
homona;tea tortrix
genus tilletia;a genus of fungi belonging to the family tilletiaceae
genus heracleum;widely distributed genus of plants with usually thick rootstocks and large umbels of white flowers
genus cetorhinus;comprising only the basking sharks. in some classifications considered the type genus of a separate family cetorhinidae
family sciuridae;true squirrels. ground squirrels. marmots. chipmunks. flying squirrels. spermophiles
genus drepanis;a genus of drepanididae
palmae;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines usually having a tall columnar trunk bearing a crown of very large leaves. coextensive with the order palmales
genus clintonia;sometimes placed in family convallariaceae
genus spergularia;chiefly maritimes eurasian herbs: sand spurry. sea spurry
squamata;diapsid reptiles: snakes and lizards
foxglove family;a family of dicotyledonous plants of the order polemoniales. includes figwort and snapdragon and foxglove and toadflax and speedwell and mullein. in some classifications placed in the order scrophulariales
genus bryanthus;1 genus. allied to and once included in genus phyllodoce
asteraceae;plants with heads composed of many florets: aster. daisy. dandelion. goldenrod. marigold. lettuces. ragweed. sunflower. thistle. zinnia
order anthocerotales;hornworts. liverworts having a thalloid gametophyte. in some classification systems included in the class hepaticopsida
dermacentor;vectors of important diseases of man and animals
malus;apple trees. found throughout temperate zones of the northern hemisphere
tinea;type genus of the tineidae: clothes moths
division;nil(biology) a group of organisms forming a subdivision of a larger category
genus hydrobates;type genus of the hydrobatidae
order anura;frogs, toads, tree toads
genus hydrocharis;frogbit
family cycadaceae;ancient palmlike plants closely related to ferns in that fertilization is by means of spermatozoids
sadleria;low tree ferns with large fronds. in rain forests and on lava flows of hawaiian islands
order mycrosporidia;an order in the subclass cnidosporidia
townsendia;genus of western american low tufted herbs: easter daisy
family squatinidae;bottom-dwelling ray-like sharks
typha;reed maces. cattails
erysiphales;saprophytic and parasitic fungi that live on plants
sula;type genus of the sulidae
agrobacterium tumefaciens;the bacteria that produce crown gall disease in plants
melanthiaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted: includes aletris. narthecium. veratrum
family alismataceae;perennial or annual aquatic or marsh plants
schaffneria;1 species
regulus;a genus of birds of the family sylviidae including kinglets
mountain alder;small shrubby maple of eastern north america. scarlet in autumn
genus salpinctes;a genus of troglodytidae
genus elanoides;a genus of kites
falconidae;a family of birds of the order falconiformes
family paeoniaceae;perennial rhizomatous herbs and shrubs. of temperate europe and north america
colubridae;nonvenomous snakes. about two-thirds of all living species
daubentoniidae;comprising solely the aye-aye
family droseraceae;a family of carnivorous herbs and shrubs
genus asarum;wild ginger
genus psidium;guavas
lardizabala;evergreen monoecious climbers of south america having dark mauve-blue edible berries
family anguidae;alligator lizards
genus brassia;genus of tropical american epiphytic orchids having striking axillary racemes of yellow to green spiderlike flowers with long slender sepals and warty lips: spider orchids
order gruiformes;inland marsh-dwelling birds with long legs and necks and bills that wade in water in search of food: cranes. rails. bustards
genus sarcostemma;succulent subshrubs or vines. tropical and subtropical india and africa and malaysia
genus matricaria;chiefly old world strong-smelling weedy herbs. comprises plants sometimes included in other genera: e.g. tanacetum. tripleurospermum
syngnathidae;pipefishes
loiseleuria;1 species: alpine azalea
genus neurotrichus;shrew moles
poaceae;the grasses: chiefly herbaceous but some woody plants including cereals. bamboo. reeds. sugar cane
gavidae;loon family
family anomiidae;saddle oysters
dactyloscopidae;sand stargazers
order anaspida;extinct order of jawless vertebrates
littorina;type genus of the family littorinidae: periwinkles
dasyatis;type genus of the dasyatidae
anserinae;used in some classifications for the swans
polyplacophora;small class of marine mollusks comprising the chitons. sometimes considered an order of the subclass amphineura
lycoperdales;small order of basidiomycetous fungi having fleshy often globose fruiting bodies. includes puffballs and earthstars
genus strobilomyces;fungi similar to boletus but with a shaggy scaly cap
selenarctos;asiatic black bears. in some classifications not a separate genus from ursus
class zygomycetes;class of fungi coextensive with subdivision zygomycota
ochna family;family of tropical evergreen trees and shrubs with thick shining parallel-veined leaves
nematocera;mosquitoes. fungus gnats. crane flies. gnats. sand flies
genus ursinia;genus of south african herbs and shrubs cultivated as ornamentals
ictonyx;a genus of mustelidae
family acanthisittidae;alternative names for the family comprising the new zealand wrens
chiococca;shrubs of tropical and subtropical new world
pulsatilla;includes a group of plants that in some classifications are included in the genus anemone: pasqueflowers
mugilidae;gray mullets
genus erythrocebus;patas
genus elettaria;cardamom
erysiphe;genus of powdery mildews
family oestridae;warble flies
herpestes;mongooses
genus micteria;a genus of birds of the family ciconiidae including wood ibises
genus lappula;stickseed. beggar's lice
soleirolia;1 species. a dwarf creeping mat-forming evergreen herb
cestoda;tapeworms
genus calvatia;genus of puffballs having outer casings whose upper parts break at maturity into angular pieces to expose the spores
culcita;includes some plants usually placed in e.g. genus dicksonia: terrestrial ferns resembling bracken. tropical america. malaysia to australia and polynesia. southwestern europe and atlantic islands
genus ptilonorhynchus;type genus of the ptilonorhynchidae
genus sciurus;type genus of the sciuridae. typical moderate-sized arboreal squirrels
genus liparis;type genus of the liparididae: snailfishes
genus melissa;a genus of old world mints of the family labiatae
genus callicebus;titis
dactylopius;type genus of the dactylopiidae
subfamily perdicidae;old world partridges
genus budorcas;gnu goats
genus asimina;pawpaw
family thraupidae;tanagers
lardizabalaceae;thick-stemmed lianas and some shrubs. some have edible fruit
genus salvinia;type genus of the salviniaceae: water ferns
ailuropoda;only the giant panda: in some classifications considered a genus of the separate family ailuropodidae
genus pouteria;tropical american timber tree with edible fruit (canistel)
order aplacophora;an order of amphineura
hamamelidaceae;comprises genera hamamelis. corylopsis. fothergilla. liquidambar. parrotia. other small genera
common arrowhead;a weed
ophiodontidae;fishes closely related to greenlings
genus hirundo;type genus of the hirundinidae
genus hydrodamalis;a genus of the family dugongidae comprising only steller's sea cow
family haemodoraceae;some genera placed in family liliaceae
family hypoxidaceae;in some classification systems included in the amaryllidaceae
genus eriophorum;cotton grass
ramphastidae;toucans
butea;genus of east indian trees or shrubs: dhak
family felidae;cats. wildcats. lions. leopards. cheetahs. saber-toothed tigers
genus chaenopsis;a genus of fish of the family clinidae including pikeblennies
fabaceae;a large family of trees, shrubs, vines, and herbs bearing bean pods. divided for convenience into the subfamilies caesalpiniaceae. mimosaceae. papilionaceae
anacanthini;at least partially equivalent to the order gadiformes in some classifications
genus tamus;a genus of tuberous-rooted vines of the family dioscoreaceae. has twining stems and heart-shaped leaves and axillary racemes
class tardigrada;in some classifications considered a separate phylum: microscopic arachnid-like invertebrates living in water or damp moss having 4 pairs of legs and instead of a mouth a pair of stylets or needle-like piercing organs connected with the pharynx
genus dromaius;a genus of birds in the order casuariiformes
class cephalopoda;octopuses. squids. cuttlefish. pearly nautilus
callithrix;type genus of the callithricidae: true marmosets
pickerelweed family;aquatic or bog plants
genus orbignya;palms of southern mexico to northern south america: babassu palm
subphylum cephalochordata;lancelets
apis;type genus of the apidae: honeybees
ganoidei;a group of mostly extinct primitive bony fishes characterized by armor-like bony scales
class phaeophyceae;brown algae. mostly marine and littoral eukaryotic algae
moschus;musk deer
genus mikania;large genus of evergreen lianas of tropical america
anadenanthera;2 species of tropical american shrubs or trees
genus leontodon;hawkbit
capreolus;roe deer
lardizabala family;thick-stemmed lianas and some shrubs. some have edible fruit
dicotyledones;comprising seed plants that produce an embryo with paired cotyledons and net-veined leaves. divided into six (not always well distinguished) subclasses (or superorders): magnoliidae and hamamelidae (considered primitive). caryophyllidae (an early and distinctive offshoot). and three more or less advanced groups: dilleniidae. rosidae. asteridae
dacrycarpus;evergreen coniferous shrubs or trees of new zealand to malaysia and philippines
genus petrocoptis;perennial tussock-forming rock plants. of pyrenees and mountains of northern spain. similar to and sometimes placed in genus lychnis
genus narcissus;old world perennial bulbous herbs
genus sillago;type genus of the sillaginidae
araceae;anthurium. calla lily. jack-in-the-pulpit. philodendron
family pontederiaceae;aquatic or bog plants
mollusk family;a family of mollusks
certhiidae;creepers
genus abronia;genus of western north american herbs having showy flowers
subfamily malaconotinae;african bush shrikes
family odobenidae;walruses and extinct forms
asplenium;in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae
aerobacter aerogenes;a species of gram-negative aerobic bacteria that produce gas and acid from sugars and are sometimes involved in the souring of milk
diapensia family;north temperate low evergreen plants. in some classifications placed in its own order diapensiales
mniaceae;family of erect mosses with club-shaped paraphyses and the hexagonal cells of the upper leaf surface. sometimes treated as a subfamily of bryaceae
genus cuon;asiatic wild dog
genus nymphalis;type genus of the nymphalidae: mourning cloak butterflies
genus ceratophyllum;constituting the family ceratophyllaceae: hornworts
subclass cnidosporidia;single-host parasites of lower vertebrates and invertebrates
family latimeridae;extinct except for the coelacanth
genus amazona;a genus of psittacidae
genus acinos;plants closely allied to the genera satureja and calamintha
raphicerus;african antelopes: steenboks
genus phthirius;true lice: crab lice
cistaceae;shrubs or woody herbs of temperate regions especially mediterranean
tulipa;eurasian perennial bulbous herbs
genus zonotrichia;large new world sparrows
family lanthanotidae;stout-bodied lizards
genus tilapia;a genus of cichlidae
myricaria;small genus of deciduous shrubs or subshrubs of southern europe to siberia and china. tolerant of chalky soil
genus stizolobium;genus of tropical herbs and woody vines having trifoliate leaves and showy flowers in axillary clusters
cestida;ctenophore having short tentacles. one family
suborder ornithopoda;widespread group including duck-billed dinosaurs and their early relatives (hadrosaurs. trachodon. iguanodon)
genus rupicola;cock of the rocks
phylum platyhelminthes;flatworms
marsilea;clover ferns
carum;caraway
family rapateaceae;south american herbs somewhat resembling members of the juncaceae
genus brickelia;genus of herbs of southwestern america having usually creamy florets followed by one-seeded fruits in a prominent bristly sheath
subphylum craniata;fishes. amphibians. reptiles. birds. mammals
genus nymphicus;a genus of psittacidae
broomcorn millet;extensively cultivated in europe and asia for its grain and in united states sometimes for forage
genus arctostaphylos;bearberry. manzanita
ploceidae;weaverbirds
genus acipenser;type genus of the acipenseridae: sturgeons
eruca;annual to perennial herbs of the mediterranean region
genus nierembergia;genus of tropical american erect or creeping herbs with solitary flowers
carnosaura;largest carnivorous land animals ever known
coniferales;profusely branching and chiefly evergreen trees and some shrubs having narrow or needlelike leaves
genus scilla;sometimes placed in subfamily hyacinthaceae
stenotaphrum;lawn grasses
genus cygnus;a genus of anatidae
family pseudomonodaceae;rod-shaped gram-negative bacteria. include important plant and animal pathogens
dermatobia;larvae live under the skin of domestic mammals and humans
genus helianthemum;widely distributed evergreen or semi-evergreen shrublets. america. europe and north africa to asia minor and central asia. includes plants often placed in genus crocanthemum
order platyctenea;an order of tentaculata
polianthes;genus of perennial tuberous herbs having lilylike flowers. mexico. sometimes placed in family amaryllidaceae
gallirallus;rails of new zealand
genus phaseolus;herbs of warm regions including most american beans
genus lichanura;boas of western north america
palaemon;type genus of the family palaemonidae. widely distributed genus
genus sciaena;type genus of the sciaenidae: croakers
retrophyllum;small genus of tropical evergreen dioecious shrubs or trees of oceania and tropical south america
genus scutigera;a genus of scutigeridae
genus avena;oats
genus microcentrum;katydids
genus dysdercus;a genus of slender long-legged bugs that feed on the developing seeds of cotton and stain it
family testudinidae;land tortoises
cyclophorus;tropical old world ferns having closely crowded circular sori and no indusia
genus knightia;small genus of trees or shrubs of new zealand and new caledonia
genus epipremnum;small genus of evergreen lianas of southeastern asia to western pacific areas
cycadophytina;palmlike gymnosperms: includes the surviving order cycadales and several extinct orders. possibly not a natural group. in some systems considered a class (cycadopsida) and in others a subdivision (cycadophytina or cycadophyta)
fistulinaceae;a family of fungi closely related to the family polyporaceae except that the tubes on the undersurface of the cap are separate from each other
genus microtus;voles of the northern hemisphere
genus herpestes;mongooses
class nuda;ctenophores lacking tentacles. comprises one genus: beroe
genus amphiprion;damsel fishes
zeomorphi;dories
family bathyergidae;mole rats. sand rats
class taxopsida;yews: in some systems classified as a class (taxopsida) and in others as a subdivision (taxophytina) used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
styphelia;australian heathlike shrubs
pennatulidae;sea pens
genus lasthenia;small genus of herbs of pacific coast of north and south america
acridotheres;mynas
genus spizella;chipping sparrow. field sparrow. tree sparrow
order loricata;former name for the order crocodylia
priacanthidae;small carnivorous percoid fishes found worldwide in tropical seas
dracunculus;tuberous herbaceous perennials: dragon arum
genus oleandra;or family polypodiaceae: tropical epiphytic or terrestrial ferns
tribulus;annual or perennial herbs or subshrubs of warm regions
phylum brachiopoda;marine invertebrates that resemble mollusks
rubus;large genus of brambles bearing berries
genus sidalcea;genus of showy plants of western north america having palmate leaves and variously colored racemose flowers
genus afropavo;congo peafowl
genus glossopsitta;a genus of loriinae
genus brasenia;alternatively, a member of the family nymphaeaceae
phytolacca;type genus of phytolaccaceae: pokeweed
clusiaceae;widely distributed family of chiefly tropical trees and shrubs and vines that produce oils and resins and some usable timber
genus elaeis;oil palms
genus carissa;old world genus of tropical evergreen usually spiny shrubs
catacala;moths whose larvae are cutworms: underwings
sirenidae;sirens
onagraceae;a large and widely distributed family of plants of the order myrtales
genus funka;robust east asian clump-forming perennial herbs having racemose flowers: plantain lilies. sometimes placed in family hostaceae
protoctista;in most modern classifications, replacement for the protista. includes: protozoa. euglenophyta. chlorophyta. cryptophyta. heterokontophyta. rhodophyta. unicellular protists and their descendant multicellular organisms: regarded as distinct from plants and animals
macropodidae;kangaroos. wallabies
genus frasera;genus of north american herbs: columbo. includes some species sometimes placed in genus swertia
genus triostium;genus of asiatic and north american herbs: feverroot
simarouba;type genus of simaroubaceae. tropical american trees and shrubs having a pale soft wood and bitter bark
psenes;a genus of stromateidae
genus myosotis;forget-me-nots. scorpion grass
genus asio;a genus of european owls
class chrysophyceae;all the yellow-green algae having flagella of unequal length
subclass discomycetes;a large and taxonomically difficult group of ascomycetes in which the fleshy fruiting body is disklike or cup-shaped
diaspididae;armored scales
istiophorus;type genus of the istiophoridae
drepanis;a genus of drepanididae
subclass opisthobranchia;gastropods having the gills when present posterior to the heart and having no operculum: includes sea slugs. sea butterflies. sea hares
afrocarpus;dioecious evergreen trees or shrubs. equatorial to southern and southeastern africa: yellowwood. similar to trees or genus podocarpus
genus oxybelis;vine snakes
sceliphron;mud daubers
pygopodidae;australian and tasmanian lizards
tursiops;a genus of delphinidae
family malpighiaceae;tropical shrubs or trees
onchorynchus;sockeye salmon. chinook salmon. coho salmon
palinuridae;spiny lobsters
olea;evergreen trees and shrubs having oily one-seeded fruits
genus chlamydosaurus;frilled lizards
genus hemipteronatus;razorfishes
carduelinae;used in some classifications for a subgroup of finches
genus euarctos;american black bears. in some classifications not a separate genus from ursus
boswellia;genus of incense-yielding trees of north africa and india
popillia;a genus of scarabaeidae
heterokontophyta;algae having chlorophyll a and usually c, and flagella of unequal lengths. terminology supersedes chrysophyta in some classifications
arctiidae;tiger moths
genus chirocephalus;fairy shrimp. brine shrimp
family littorinidae;periwinkles
agnatha;superclass of eel-shaped chordates lacking jaws and pelvic fins: lampreys. hagfishes. some extinct forms
family cathartidae;condors. turkey buzzards. king vultures
kirkia;small genus of tropical south african trees and shrubs
somateria;eider ducks
genus danaea;fairly small terrestrial ferns of tropical america
genus swietinia;tropical american mahogany trees
family gavidae;loon family
genus mycoplasma;type and sole genus of the family mycoplasmatacaea
suborder percoidea;in some classifications nearly or exactly equivalent to the perciformes which are considered a suborder
gracula;mynas
genus gutierrezia;sticky perennial herbs and subshrubs of western north america and warm south america
genus doronicum;genus of eurasian perennial tuberous or rhizomatous herbs: leopard's bane
family xyridaceae;plants of tropical to temperate regions. usually in wet places
lofortyx;california quail
family podocarpaceae;gymnosperms with simple persistent needlelike or scalelike leaves
genus pogonia;small but widely distributed genus of orchids closely related to genus cleistes.: of damp or boggy areas of north temperate zone
brevoortia;menhaden
canellaceae;1 genus: aromatic tropical trees of eastern africa and florida to west indies
family tamaricaceae;family of desert shrubs and trees (mostly halophytes and zerophytes)
family mysidae;small shrimp-like crustaceans
kafir corn;important for human and animal food. growth habit and stem form similar to indian corn but having sawtooth-edged leaves
class lycopodineae;alternative designation for the class lycopsida
family psophiidae;trumpeters
genus struthio;type genus of the struthionidae: african ostriches
genus myxinikela;fossil hagfishes
genus parophrys;a genus of soleidae
coprinus;genus of black-spotted agarics in which the cap breaks down at maturity into an inky fluid. sometimes placed in its own family coprinaceae
family geraniaceae;chiefly herbaceous plants
goniopteris;terrestrial ferns of florida and west indies to central and south america
herpestes nyula;keen-sighted viverrine of southern asia about the size of a ferret. often domesticated
genus otis;type genus of the otididae: european bustard
genus myrsine;evergreen trees and shrubs having aromatic foliage. africa. asia: new zealand
acrasiomycetes;cellular slime molds. in some classifications placed in kingdom protoctista
class amphibia;frogs. toads. newts. salamanders. caecilians
genus didelphis;type genus of the family didelphidae
family iridaceae;large family of usually perennial geophytic herbs with rizomes or corms or bulbs
tunga;a genus of siphonaptera
entomostraca;in some older classifications includes the branchiopoda and copepoda and ostracoda and cirripedia. no longer in technical use
family balaenidae;right whales
jasminum;shrubs and woody climbers mostly of tropical and temperate old world: jasmine. jessamine
genus cryptomeria;japanese cedar. sugi
cydonia;quince
genus eacles;imperial moths
genus gesneria;large genus of tropical american herbs having showy tubular flowers
class chilopoda;arthropods having the trunk composed of numerous somites each bearing one pair of legs: centipedes
coelenterate genus;a genus of coelenterates
genus oecanthus;tree crickets
genus deutzia;genus of ornamental mostly deciduous shrubs native to asia and central america. widespread in cultivation. sometimes placed in family saxifragaceae
family sparganiaceae;coextensive with the genus sparganium
genus cystopteris;chiefly small perennial rock ferns: bladder ferns. in some classifications placed in polypodiaceae
genus pseudotaxus;one species
genus usnea;widely distributed lichens usually having a grayish or yellow pendulous freely branched thallus
family bombycillidae;a family of birds of the suborder oscines
dracaena draco;tall tree of the canary islands. source of dragon's blood
genus geum;avens
musci;true mosses: bryophytes having leafy rather than thalloid gametophytes: comprises orders andreaeales. bryales. dicranales. eubryales. sphagnales
hemerocallidaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted. includes genus hemerocallis
lagodon;a genus of sparidae
zannichelliaceae;alternative classification for some genera included in potamogetonaceae. one species
micromeria;large genus of fragrant chiefly old world herbs
zosteraceae;used in some classifications: essentially equivalent to potamogetonaceae
genus mandragora;a genus of stemless herbs of the family solanaceae
genus anasa;squash bugs
genus sphacele;a dicotyledonous genus of the family labiatae
brama;type genus of the bramidae
xanthophyceae;yellow-green algae
four o clock family;a family of flowering plants of the order caryophyllales
genus hyacinthoides;small genus of perennial bulbs of western europe and north africa. sometimes placed in family hyacinthaceae
genus petrogale;rock wallabies
class gasteromycetes;fungi in which the hymenium is enclosed until after spores have matured: puffballs. earth stars. stinkhorn fungi
hemigrammus;tetras
phalaris;a genus of grasses with broad leaves and a dense spike of flowers
geoffroea;small genus of shrubs or small trees of tropical and subtropical america
aulostomidae;trumpetfishes
genus sciara;type genus of the sciaridae: fungus gnat
family gadidae;large family of important mostly marine food fishes
psilotatae;whisk ferns. comprising the family psilotaceae or psilotatae: vascular plants with no roots, partial if any leaf differentiation, and rudimentary spore sacs
genus benzoin;used in some classifications for the american spicebush and certain other plants often included in the genus lindera
saururaceae;family of perennial aromatic herbs: genera saururus. anemopsis. houttuynia
trachelospermum;genus of asiatic woody vines with milky sap in leaves and stems
rodentia;small gnawing animals: porcupines. rats. mice. squirrels. marmots. beavers. gophers. voles. hamsters. guinea pigs. agoutis
peridinium;type genus of the family peridiniidae
dipus;type genus of the dipodidae. typical jerboas having three toes on each hind food
leitneriaceae;coextensive with the genus leitneria. commonly isolated in a distinct order
laportea;mostly tropical stinging herbs or trees: nettle
acrididae;short-horned grasshoppers. true locusts
genus acrocephalus;a genus of sylviidae
cyprinodontidae;large family of small soft-finned fishes. killifishes. flagfishes. swordtails. guppies
holocephali;chimaeras and extinct forms
condylura;sar-nosed moles
aristotelia;small genus of shrubs or small trees of australia and new zealand and western south america
genus andricus;cynipid gall wasps, chiefly affecting oaks
circaea;enchanter's nightshade
genus persea;avocado
vertebrata;fishes. amphibians. reptiles. birds. mammals
morning glory family;morning_glory. bindweed. sweet potato. plants having trumpet-shaped flowers and a climbing or twining habit
chrysomelidae;leaf beetles
blennioidea;blennies. butterfishes. gunnels
genus nycticorax;old world night herons
family convolvulaceae;morning_glory. bindweed. sweet potato. plants having trumpet-shaped flowers and a climbing or twining habit
genus potos;a genus of procyonidae
schizomycetes;a former classification
cornus;a rosid dicot genus of the family cornaceae including: dogwood. cornel: perennial chiefly deciduous shrubs or small trees of temperate regions of northern hemisphere
chelonethida;false scorpions
family lemuridae;typical lemurs. of madagascar
rynchops;type genus of the rynchopidae: skimmers
genus allosaurus;carnivorous dinosaur of north america. late jurassic
brachinus;bombardier beetles
copernicia;slow-growing tropical fan palms
genus cyprinus;type genus of the family cyprinidae: carp
genus ixodes;type genus of the family ixodidae
ficus;large genus of tropical trees or shrubs or climbers including fig trees
carnivora;cats. lions. tigers. panthers. dogs. wolves. jackals. bears. raccoons. skunks. and members of the suborder pinnipedia
genus olearia;large genus of australian evergreen shrubs or small trees with large daisylike flowers
balistidae;triggerfishes
boidae;boas and pythons
milkwort family;trees, shrubs, and herbs widely distributed throughout both hemispheres
angraecum;genus of tropical old world epiphytic orchids with showy flowers sometimes grotesque
genus antheraea;large moths whose larvae produce silk of high quality
scolytus;type genus of the scolytidae comprising numerous small bark beetles
phylum entoprocta;sometimes considered a subphylum of bryozoa
genus surnia;a genus of hawk-like owls
order gentianales;gentianaceae. apocyanaceae. asclepiadaceae. loganiaceae. oleaceae. salvadoraceae
genus strepera;bell magpies
apium;celery
symplocus;type and sole genus of symplocaceae including sweetleaf
genus fusarium;a form genus of mostly plant parasites some of which cause dry rot. in humans a species can cause inflammation of cornea leading to blindness
family hydrangeaceae;sometimes included in the family saxifragaceae
euterpe;a monocotyledonous genus of graceful palm trees in tropical america
dendrolagus;tree wallabies
nitrobacteriaceae;usually rod-shaped bacteria that oxidize ammonia or nitrites: nitrobacteria
genus ramphomicron;thornbills
arctostaphylos;bearberry. manzanita
genus tectona;small genus of southeastern asian tropics: teak
family indriidae;a family of lemuroidea
family anobiidae;deathwatch beetles
quassia family;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs with bitter bark having dry usually one-seeded winged fruit
melampsoraceae;rust fungi
geochelone;giant tortoises
genus plagianthus;small genus of shrubs and trees of australia and new zealand
genus sitta;type genus of the sittidae
genus pomolobus;genus to which the alewife is sometimes assigned
genus homona;tea tortrix
gossypium;herbs and shrubs and small trees: cotton
family sulidae;gannets and boobies
heliamphora;genus of pitcher plants of guiana highlands of south america
agriocharis;a genus of birds of the family meleagrididae including the ocellated turkey
family squillidae;crustaceans that burrow in mud or under stones in shallow water along the seashore
genus xanthomonas;a genus of bacteria similar to pseudomonas but producing a yellow pigment that is not soluble in water
capra;goats
megadermatidae;old world false vampire bats
lagorchestes;hare wallabies
genus delphinus;type genus of the delphinidae
genus melophagus;an arthropod genus of wingless flies including the sheep ked
macrothelypteris;medium to large terrestrial ferns of tropical asia to polynesia and australia. naturalized in americas
genus eichhornia;water hyacinth. water orchid
genus sceloglaux;a genus of strigidae
micrococcus;type genus of the family_micrococcaceae
family sparidae;porgies. scups
verbena family;family of new world tropical and subtropical herbs and shrubs and trees
genus cynodon;creeping perennial grasses of tropical and southern africa
schizosaccharomyces;type and only genus of schizosaccharomycetaceae. comprises the fission yeasts
cephalochordata;lancelets
opisthocomidae;comprising the hoatzins
genus riparia;a genus of hirundinidae
flacourtiaceae;chiefly tropical trees and shrubs
genus tragopogon;genus of old world herbs with linear entire leaves and yellow or purple flower heads
pseudemys;sliders. red-bellied terrapin
vespa;type genus of the vespidae: various hornets and yellow jackets
pseudomonas;type genus of the family pseudomonodaceae
erysimum;large genus of annual or perennial herbs some grown for their flowers and some for their attractive evergreen leaves. old world and north america
zygomycotina;division of fungi having sexually produced zygospores
dipterocarpaceae;chiefly tropical asian trees with two-winged fruits. yield valuable woods and aromatic oils and resins
family caproidae;boarfishes
anthemis;dog fennel. in some classification systems includes plants of genus chamaelum
chenopodiaceae;includes spinach and beets
lagomorpha;rabbits. hares. pikas. formerly considered the suborder duplicidentata of the order rodentia
miltonia;genus of tropical american orchids
genus dacelo;australasian kingfishers
gleditsia;deciduous trees: honey locusts
solandra;shrubby climbers of tropical america
genus coccus;type genus of the coccidae
genus synchytrium;simple parasitic fungi including pond scum parasites
gerardia;any plant of the genus gerardia
triglinae;in some classifications considered a subfamily of triglidae comprising searobins having ordinary scales and no barbels (true searobins)
family gnetaceae;plants having small unisexual flowers and fleshy or winged fruit: in some classifications includes the genera ephedra and welwitschia as well as gnetum
genus cupressus;type genus of cupressaceae
oriolidae;old world orioles
encyclia;large genus of epiphytic and lithophytic orchids of tropical and subtropical americas and west indies. formerly included in genus epidendrum
hydrozoa;coelenterates typically having alternation of generations. hydroid phase is usually colonial giving rise to the medusoid phase by budding: hydras and jellyfishes
genus iberis;old world herbs and subshrubs: candytuft
abutilon;herbs or shrubs or small trees: flowering maple. parlor maple. indian mallow
suborder;(biology) taxonomic group that is a subdivision of an order
geophilidae;small extremely elongate earth-living centipedes
genus parthenium;small genus of north american herbs and shrubs with terminal panicles of small ray flowers
genus alocasia;tropical asiatic herbs similar to colocasia but distinguished by a large sterile spadix
genus aneides;climbing salamanders
cortinarius;the largest genus in th agaricales. rusty-spored agarics having prominent cortinae (cobwebby partial veils)
aspleniaceae;one of a number of families into which polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems. includes genera asplenium. pleurosorus. schaffneria
genus arachis;a genus of plants with pods that ripen underground (see peanut)
pseudechis;venomous australian blacksnakes
ascomycota;a large subdivision of eumycota including hemiascomycetes and plectomycetes and pyrenomycetes and discomycetes. sac fungi. in some classification systems considered a division of the kingdom fungi
mongoose;agile grizzled old world viverrine. preys on snakes and rodents
dendranthema;comprises plants often included in the genus chrysanthemum
antirrhinum;a genus of herbs of the family scrophulariaceae with brightly colored irregular flowers
genus hazardia;small genus of shrubs and subshrubs of western united states having flowers that change color as they mature
nymphaeaceae;dicot aquatic plants
apodiformes;swifts. hummingbirds
synodontidae;soft-finned bottom-dwelling fishes
family struthionidae;tall terrestrial birds: ostriches
zenaidura;mourning doves
genus saprolegnia;aquatic fungi growing chiefly on plant debris and animal remains
annelida;segmented worms: earthworms. lugworms. leeches
ancylus;type genus of the family ancylidae: river limpet
dracula;comprises tropical american species usually placed in genus masdevallia: diminutive plants having bizarre and often sinister-looking flowers with pendulous scapes and motile lips
duckweed family;family of small free-floating thalloid plants
psyllidae;jumping plant lice
tinamidae;comprising the tinamous
family thripidae;thrips
genus blissus;chinch bugs
plethodon;type genus of the plethodontidae
cebidae;all the new world monkeys except marmosets and tamarins
pholiota;genus of brown-spored gilled agarics of europe and north america having an annulus and growing on open ground or decaying wood
abudefduf;damsel fishes
spartium;1 species: spanish broom
genus pyrola;short-stemmed perennial herbs of cool or temperate regions: wintergreen. shinleaf
alces;elk or moose
genus chordospartium;2 species of small new zealand trees: weeping tree broom. endangered
family engraulidae;anchovies
tamarix;genus of deciduous shrubs or small trees of eastern mediterranean regions and tropical asia
samolus;genus of herbs usually growing in salt marshes: water pimpernels
subfamily papilionoideae;alternative name used in some classification systems for the family papilionaceae
oryza;rice
chloris;tufted or perennial or annual grasses having runners: finger grass. windmill grass
class tentaculata;ctenophores have retractile tentacles
order apodes;elongate fishes with pelvic fins and girdle absent or reduced
genus craspedia;herbs of australia and new zealand
genus geastrum;type genus of geastraceae. fungi whose outer peridium when dry splits into starlike segments
family solanaceae;large and economically important family of herbs or shrubs or trees often strongly scented and sometimes narcotic or poisonous. includes the genera solanum. atropa. brugmansia. capsicum. datura. hyoscyamus. lycopersicon. nicotiana. petunia. physalis. solandra
macrotyloma;annual or perennial vines of africa and india and australia. plants often placed in genus dolichos
genus chara;green algae common in freshwater lakes of limestone districts
genus podocarpus;evergreen trees or shrubs. sometimes classified as member of the family taxaceae
genus carlina;genus of mediterranean thistles
genus chlorella;nonmotile unicellular green algae potentially important as source of high-grade protein and b-complex vitamins
lophodytes;a genus of merginae
subgenus poinciana;small subgenus of ornamental tropical shrubs or trees. not recognized in some classifications
bromelia;the type genus of the family bromeliaceae which incudes tropical american plants with deeply cleft calyx
genus sarracenia;pitcher plants
marattiaceae;constituting the order marattiales: chiefly tropical eusporangiate ferns with gigantic fronds
family phyllostomatidae;new world leaf-nosed bats
genus xylosma;genus of tropical american and asiatic spiny evergreen trees and shrubs
genus carpobrotus;a caryophyllaceous genus of carpobrotus
genus nuphar;spatterdocks
rorippa;annual and perennial herbs of damp habitats. cosmopolitan except antarctica
colubrina;mostly tropical american shrubs or small trees with small yellowish flowers and yellow or red fruits
genus nypa;monotypic genus of palms of australasia
macaca;macaques. rhesus monkeys
genus delonix;evergreen or deciduous trees of tropical africa and india
pseudomonas pyocanea;a species of aerobic bacteria
phoenicurus;old world thrushes
tephrosia;genus of tropical and subtropical herbs or shrubs: hoary peas
genus cinchona;large genus of trees of andean region of south america having medicinal bark
genus umbrina;croakers
family scombresocidae;only sauries
genus bassia;summer cypress
genus oxalis;type genus of the oxalidaceae. large genus of plants having leaves that resemble clover and variously colored flowers usually clustered in umbels
family orchidaceae;enormous cosmopolitan family of perennial terrestrial or epiphytic plants with fleshy tubers or rootstocks and unusual flowers
corylopsis;small genus of deciduous shrubs of temperate regions of asia
saururus;type genus of the saururaceae: lizard's-tails
family hydrophyllaceae;perennial woodland herbs
genus turdus;type genus of the turdidae
genus cyanocitta;new world jays
staphylea;a genus of small trees or shrubs of the family staphylaceae
pouteria;tropical american timber tree with edible fruit (canistel)
genus lycopersicum;tomatoes
genus sparaxis;deciduous perennial herbs of south africa
genus pterois;lionfishes
genus acanthocereus;mostly trailing cacti having nocturnal white flowers. tropical america and caribbean region
family lutjanidae;snappers
family bacillaceae;typically rod-shaped usually gram-positive bacteria that produce endospores
cancer;type genus of the family cancridae
genus cereus;genus of much-branched treelike or shrubby cacti with pronounced ribs and rounded needlelike spines and nocturnal flowers usually white
genus alligator;type genus of the alligatoridae
genus ateles;spider monkeys
genus melicocca;tropical american trees and shrubs bearing berries
division heterokontophyta;algae having chlorophyll a and usually c, and flagella of unequal lengths. terminology supersedes chrysophyta in some classifications
globigerinidae;a family of protoctists
suborder blattodea;cockroaches. in some classifications considered an order
scorpionida;true scorpions
cercopithecus;type genus of the cercopithecidae: guenons
genus anhinga;type genus of the anhingidae
calycanthus;a magnoliid dicot genus of the family calycanthaceae including: allspice
genus lemna;minute aquatic herbs floating on or below the water surface of still water consisting of a leaflike frond or plant body and single root
leonurus;genus of stout old world herbs having cut-lobed leaves and flowers in whorls
fossa;monotypic genus of madagascar civets closely related to palm civets
nerodia;north american water snakes
family pelecanidae;pelicans
bean caper family;small trees, shrubs, and herbs of warm arid and saline regions. often resinous. some poisonous: genera zygophyllum. tribulus. guaiacum: larrea
family malvaceae;herbs and shrubs and some trees: mallows. cotton. okra
capparis;tropical or subtropical evergreen shrubs or small trees
capsella;shepherd's purse
branchiobdellidae;small annelid worms with the posterior end modified into an adhesive sucker. especially formerly regarded as modified leeches
hydrophyllaceae;perennial woodland herbs
suborder nothosauria;a suborder of sauropterygia
strombidae;conchs
albugo;type genus of the albuginaceae. fungi causing white rusts
doura;sorghums of dry regions of asia and north africa
genus nicotiana;american and asiatic aromatic herbs and shrubs with viscid foliage
genus hypopachus;sheep frogs
volvox;type genus of the volvocaceae. minute pale green flagellates occurring in tiny spherical colonies. minute flagella rotate the colony about an axis
nymphaea;the type genus of the family nymphaeaceae. any of a variety of water lilies
genus sanicula;chiefly american herbs: sanicle
stenopelmatus;sand crickets
ranales;herbs, shrubs and trees: includes families ranunculaceae. annonaceae. berberidaceae. magnoliaceae. menispermaceae. myristicaceae. nymphaeaceae. lardizabalaceae. lauraceae. calycanthaceae. ceratophyllaceae. cercidiphyllaceae
sturnidae;old world starlings
genus syngnathus;type genus of the family_syngnathidae
order pandanales;families typhaceae. sparganiaceae. pandanaceae
genus acanthoscelides;a genus of bruchidae
ocyurus;snappers
family paridae;titmice and chickadees
genus alectoris;a genus of perdicidae
genus manilkara;genus of large evergreen trees with milky latex. pantropical
family passeridae;true sparrows: old world birds formerly considered weaverbirds
genus ceratopteris;water ferns
cercidiphyllum;1 species: katsura tree
desmanthus;genus of american herbs or shrubs with sensitive pinnate leaves and small whitish flowers
scombresox;a genus of scomberesocidae
cetonia;a genus of cetoniidae
genus trionyx;type genus of the trionychidae
hippoglossus;halibuts
ranatra;elongate very slender water scorpions
heteroptera;true bugs
genus chilomeniscus;sand snakes
sorghum;economically important old world tropical cereal grass
minuartia;mostly perennial herbs of northern hemisphere often with mat-forming habit. most often placed in genus arenaria: sandworts
rhinoptera;a genus of myliobatidae
genus seriola;a genus of carangidae
family chlamydomonadaceae;green algae some of which are colored red by hematochrome
ulex;genus of eurasian spiny shrubs: gorse
otides;terrestrial game birds of the old world and australia: bustards
genus gerris;type genus of the gerrididae
trichechidae;comprising only the manatees
family lymantriidae;tussock moths
lecythidaceae;large tropical trees bearing large fruits with woody skins
family blechnaceae;one of a number of families into which the family polypodiaceae has been subdivided in some classification systems. includes genera blechnum. doodia. sadleria. stenochlaena. woodwardia
genus icterus;type genus of the icteridae
secotiaceae;a family of fungi that have a stalk and cap and a wrinkled mass of tissue (the gleba) where spores are produced. are often dismissed as misshapen forms of other fungi
cynara;artichoke. cardoon
amphiumidae;congo snakes
hominoidea;anthropoid apes and human beings
conodontophorida;extinct order of primitive vertebrates. the precise taxonomy is not clear. in some classifications considered a separate phylum
class monocotyledonae;comprising seed plants that produce an embryo with a single cotyledon and parallel-veined leaves: includes grasses and lilies and palms and orchids. divided into four subclasses or superorders: alismatidae. arecidae. commelinidae. and liliidae
genus clupea;type genus of the clupeidae: typical herrings
toona;formerly included in genus cedrela
onychomys;grasshopper mice
genus clematis;large genus of deciduous or evergreen woody vines or erect herbs
family agamidae;an old world reptile family of sauria
family echeneidae;fishes having a sucking disk on the head for clinging to other fishes and to ships
balanus;type genus of the family balanidae
onopordum;a genus of eurasian herbs of the family compositae with prickly foliage and large purplish flowers
presbytes;langurs
albuginaceae;fungi that produce white blister-like sori on certain flowering plants
muscicapa;type genus of the muscicapidae
genus hydromantes;web-toed salamanders
anarhichadidae;wolffishes
muntingia;1 species: jamaican cherry. sometimes placed in family flacourtiaceae
sterna;a genus of sterninae
genus psephurus;a genus of polyodontidae
centrolobium;a genus of centrolobium
batis;small genus of plants constituting the family batidaceae: low straggling dioecious shrubs
saturniidae;important and widely distributed family of moths including some of the largest insects known
sauromalus;chuckwallas
liliopsid genus;genus of flowering plants having a single cotyledon (embryonic leaf) in the seed
genus mandevilla;genus of tropical south american tuberous perennial woody vines with large racemose flowers and milky sap
genus parkinsonia;small genus of spiny shrubs or small trees
family caeciliidae;coextensive with the order gymnophiona: legless amphibians
genus gastrocybe;a genus of fungi of the family secotiaceae
genus hypsiprymnodon;musk kangaroos
genus plasmodiophora;type genus of plasmodiophoracea comprising minute plant parasitic fungi similar to and sometimes included among the slime molds
genus latrodectus;venomous spiders
berteroa;hoary alyssum
genus sequoia;redwoods. until recently considered a genus of a separate family taxodiaceae
hyaenidae;hyenas
spheniscus;type genus of the spheniscidae: jackass penguins
genus epilobium;large widely distributed genus of herbs and subshrubs of especially western north america and arctic areas
octopoda;octopuses and paper nautilus
manteidae;mantises
subfamily mephitinae;subdivision not used in some classifications: skunks
raja;type genus of the family rajidae
lastreopsis;tropical terrestrial shield ferns
conospermum;australian shrubs (some trees) with flowers in dense spikes: smoke bush
family tylenchidae;a family of nematoda
genus stegosaurus;quadrupedal armored herbivore of the jurassic and cretaceous
phylum cryptophyta;a phylum in the kingdom protoctista
genus neritina;a genus of neritidae
genus nesokia;bandicoot rats
carpinus;mostly deciduous monoecious trees or shrubs: hornbeams. sometimes placed in subfamily carpinaceae
genus loris;type genus of the lorisidae
family rhiptoglossa;old world chameleons. in some classifications rhiptoglossa is considered a superfamily of sauria
genus arizona;glossy snake
genus boletus;type genus of boletaceae. genus of soft early-decaying pore fungi. some poisonous and some edible
family torpedinidae;electric rays
perdicidae;old world partridges
padda;a genus of ploceidae
toxotes;type genus of the toxotidae
bombax;trees of chiefly south america
vidua;whydahs
strophariaceae;sometimes included in family agaricaceae
genus roridula;insectivorous undershrubs of south africa. in some classifications placed in the family droseraceae
genus parkia;genus of tropical old world trees: nitta trees
notoryctus;type genus of the family notoryctidae: comprising solely the marsupial mole
hypericum;large almost cosmopolitan genus of evergreen or deciduous shrubs and herbs with often showy yellow flowers. cosmopolitan except tropical lowlands and arctic or high altitudes and desert regions
genus dolichos;genus of chiefly tropical vines often placed in genera dipogon or lablab or macrotyloma
calystegia;climbing or scrambling herbs: bindweed
caltha;a genus of caltha
argyroxiphium;small genus of hawaiian spreading and rosette-forming shrubs
gobio;true gudgeons
gavialidae;gavials
monocanthidae;filefishes
vesicaria;small genus of chiefly mediterranean herbs: bladderpods
onobrychis;genus of old world herbs having pinnate leaves and pink or whites racemose flowers followed by flat unjointed pods
bougainvillaea;ornamental tropical woody vines
family picidae;woodpeckers
genus calandrinia;large genus of low-growing herbs. widespread throughout tropical and warm temperate regions having usually basal leaves and panicles of purplish ephemeral flowers
cola;large genus of african trees bearing kola nuts
cracidae;curassows. guans. chachalacas
podicipedidae;coextensive with the order podicipitiformes
pandionidae;ospreys
zygophyllaceae;small trees, shrubs, and herbs of warm arid and saline regions. often resinous. some poisonous: genera zygophyllum. tribulus. guaiacum: larrea
heliothis;a genus of noctuidae
genus otus;a genus of strigidae
genus sepia;type genus of the sepiidae
genus pimpinella;anise
grapevine family;a family of vines belonging to order rhamnales
genus sclerotium;form genus of sterile imperfect fungi. many form sclerotia. some cause sclerotium disease in plants
micteria;a genus of birds of the family ciconiidae including wood ibises
isopoda;woodlice
class crinoidea;sea lilies
euronithopod;widespread group including duck-billed dinosaurs and their early relatives (hadrosaurs. trachodon. iguanodon)
ophidia;snakes
nidulariaceae;bird's-nest fungi
genus mammuthus;extinct genus: mammoths
lachnolaimus;a genus of labridae
salientia;frogs, toads, tree toads
order lagomorpha;rabbits. hares. pikas. formerly considered the suborder duplicidentata of the order rodentia
family ornithorhynchidae;platypus
acer pennsylvanicum;maple of eastern north america with striped bard and large 2-lobed leaves clear yellow in autumn
class arachnida;a large class of arthropods including spiders and ticks and scorpions and daddy longlegs. have four pairs of walking legs and no wings
marginocephalia;includes bone-headed (pachycephalosaurs) and horned (ceratopsian) dinosaurs
dorylinae;army ants
genus vultur;usually restricted to the andean condor
genus littorina;type genus of the family littorinidae: periwinkles
dactylis;a monocotyledonous grass of the family gramineae (has only one species)
genus piptadenia;tropical american trees and shrubs. often placed in other genera
epacris family;australasian shrubs or small trees
genus eptesicus;a genus of vespertilionidae
genus ixobrychus;bitterns
genus hyssopus;eurasian genus of perennial herbs or subshrubs
genus helvella;type genus of the helvellaceae
genus aporocactus;small genus of epiphytic cacti of mexico
pagophilus;harp seals
genus okapia;okapis
family scheuchzeriaceae;a family of monocotyledonous bog herbs of order naiadales
suborder menurae;lyrebirds and scrubbirds
conocarpus;monotypic genus of tropical american trees: button tree
thespesia;small genus of tropical trees: portia tree
acanthus family;widely distributed herbs and shrubs and trees. sometimes placed in the order scrophulariales
pilularia;pillworts
genus mesocricetus;golden hamsters
chlorophis;african green snakes
barbarea;biennial or perennial herbs of north temperate regions: winter cress
genus oryzopsis;rice grass
zaglossus;a genus of tachyglossidae
hemipteronatus;razorfishes
mya;type genus of the family myacidae
order xiphosura;horseshoe crabs and extinct forms
genus notornis;a genus of rallidae
genus culcita;includes some plants usually placed in e.g. genus dicksonia: terrestrial ferns resembling bracken. tropical america. malaysia to australia and polynesia. southwestern europe and atlantic islands
hymenophyllum;type genus of the hymenophyllaceae: filmy ferns
conradina;small genus of low aromatic shrubs of southeastern united states
sylviidae;in some classifications considered a subfamily (sylviinae) of the family muscicapidae: old world (true) warblers. american kinglets and gnatcatchers
genus dendromecon;1 species: bush poppy
tenthredinidae;sawflies
genus biscutella;genus of eurasian herbs and small shrubs: buckler mustard
lampyridae;fireflies
suborder anseres;used in some especially older classifications. coextensive with the family anatidae
family magnoliaceae;subclass_magnoliidae: genera liriodendron. magnolia. manglietia
mammal genus;a genus of mammals
genus nitrobacter;rod-shaped soil bacteria
order diptera;true flies. mosquitoes. gnats. crane flies
ceroxylon;wax palms
family corixidae;water bugs
mastigophora;protozoa having flagella
hirundo;type genus of the hirundinidae
genus agapornis;a genus of psittacidae
family cyprinodontidae;large family of small soft-finned fishes. killifishes. flagfishes. swordtails. guppies
heritiera;small genus of timber trees of eastern asia, australasia and tropical africa that form large buttresses
trimorphodon;lyre snakes
sequoiadendron;giant sequoias. sometimes included in the genus sequoia. until recently placed in the taxodiaceae
elaeagnus;oleaster
bovinae;term not used technically. essentially coextensive with genus bos: cattle. buffalo. and sometimes includes kudu
superfamily sphecoidea;families sphecidae and stizidae
sesamum;tropical african and indian herbs
genus sadleria;low tree ferns with large fronds. in rain forests and on lava flows of hawaiian islands
genus woodsia;genus of small to medium-sized usually rock-inhabiting ferns of temperate and cold regions. in some classification systems placed in polypodiaceae
teleostei;large diverse group of bony fishes. includes most living species
tacca;genus of tropical plants with creeping rootstocks and small umbellate flowers
liparis;type genus of the liparididae: snailfishes
family zapodidae;jumping mice
caviidae;a family of hystricomorpha
cocculus;climbing plants or shrubs
genus dioon;small genus of arborescent cycads of mexico and central america. sometimes classified in family cycadaceae
cliftonia;1 species: titi
diapensiales;used in some classifications: coextensive with family diapensiaceae
hypochaeris;widely distributed genus of milky-juiced herbs including some cosmopolitan weeds
genus athyrium;temperate and tropical lady ferns. in some classifications placed in family polypodiaceae or in the genus asplenium
macrodactylus;a genus of melolonthidae
megaloptera;in some classifications considered a separate order: alderflies. dobsonflies. snake flies
genus cassia;some cassia species often classified as members of the genus senna or genus chamaecrista
acer macrophyllum;maple of western north america having large 5-lobed leaves orange in autumn
shorea;genus of indo-malaysian timber trees rich in resin
family hipposideridae;old world leafnose bats
phoxinus;minnows
aristolochiaceae;birthworts. wild ginger
genus uca;fiddler crabs
euascomycetes;category not used in many classification systems
genus pseudopleuronectes;a genus of pleuronectidae
pholistoma;straggling herbs of southwestern united states
family marchantiaceae;liverworts with prostrate and usually dichotomously branched thalli
genus emberiza;old world buntings
genus pteropogon;genus of australian and south african herbs including some from genus helipterum
family otariidae;eared seals: sea lions and fur seals
family plumbaginaceae;perennial herbs and shrubs and lianas. cosmopolitan especially in salt-water areas
geoglossum;type genus of the geoglossaceae comprising the earthtongues
genus fabiana;genus of south and central american heathlike evergreen shrubs
family alaudidae;larks
armoracia;horseradish
genus gerardia;genus of annual or perennial herbs with showy pink or purple or yellow flowers. plants often assigned to genera aureolaria or agalinis
hypsiprymnodon;musk kangaroos
lentinus;a genus of fungus belonging to the family tricholomataceae
genus ondatra;muskrats
genus astropogon;a genus of fish of the family apogonidae
phasmida;in some classifications considered a suborder of orthoptera: stick insects. leaf insects
lari;gulls. terns. jaegers. skimmers
plant family;a family of plants
family pterodactylidae;a reptile family in the order pterosauria
stictomys;mountain pacas
akeridae;bubble shells
genus ophisaurus;glass lizards
genus mercurialis;a genus of slender herbs belonging to the family euphorbiaceae
phytophthora;destructive parasitic fungi causing brown rot in plants
anagallis;chiefly old world herbs
gymnocalycium;large genus of low-growing globular south american cacti with spiny ribs covered with many tubercles
cynocephalidae;a family of dermoptera
ebony family;fruit and timber trees of tropical and warm regions including ebony and persimmon
aquila;a genus of accipitridae
genus glechoma;ground ivy
pterospermum;genus of tropical asian trees and shrubs
emberizidae;buntings and some new world sparrows
genus erica;large genus of low much-branched woody evergreens ranging from prostrate subshrubs to trees: true heaths
lygus;plant-sucking bugs
thysanura;firebrats. silverfish. machilids
family tenrecidae;tenrecs and extinct related forms
family tethyidae;sea hares
family erethizontidae;new world arboreal porcupines
notophthalmus;newts
genus mimosa;genus of spiny woody shrubs or trees. named for their apparent imitation of animal sensitivity to light and heat and movement
genus nitrosomonas;ellipsoidal soil bacteria
genus aulostomus;type genus of the aulostomidae
cephalotus;one species: australian pitcher plant
genus alopecurus;annual or perennial grasses including decorative and meadow species as well as notorious agricultural weeds
genus apocynum;perennial herbs with small pink or white flowers
anseriformes;ducks. geese. swans. screamers
genus nabalus;genus of north american and east asian perennial herbs. sometimes included in genus prenanthes
fouquieriaceae;small family of spiny shrubs or trees of southwestern united states
toxotidae;archerfishes
family ancylidae;freshwater gastropod
spheniscidae;comprising all existing penguins
aceraceae;a family of trees and shrubs of order sapindales including the maples
genus sticherus;umbrella ferns. warm regions of australia and new zealand
family sagittariidae;secretary birds
pulicidae;many common fleas attacking humans and domestic animals
family scolopacidae;sandpiper family: sandpipers. woodcocks. snipes. tattlers. curlews. godwits. dowitchers
meconopsis;herbs almost entirely of mountains of china and tibet. often monocarpic
tribe;(biology) a taxonomic category between a genus and a subfamily
class symphyla;small class of minute arthropods. unimportant except for the garden centipede
genus doryopteris;small to medium tropical tufted ferns. sometimes placed in family adiantaceae
genus halenia;genus of herbs of eurasia and the americas: spurred gentians
haematobia;european genus of bloodsucking flies
marsupialia;coextensive with the subclass metatheria
sulidae;gannets and boobies
family icteridae;american orioles. american blackbirds. bobolinks. meadowlarks
pterodactylidae;a reptile family in the order pterosauria
genus selenicereus;mostly epiphytic climbing cacti that bloom at night
genus acinonyx;cheetahs
graptophyllum;caricature plant
family cephalotaceae;a family of plants of order rosales. coextensive with the genus cephalotus
pellaea;genus of chiefly small rock-loving ferns. in some classifican systems placed in family polypodiaceae or adiantaceae
sison;stone parsley
selaginella;type and sole genus of the selaginellaceae. evergreen mosslike plants: spike moss and little club moss
genus picea;a genus of temperate and arctic evergreen trees (see spruce)
genus canavalia;herbs or woody vines of mainly american tropics and subtropics
gryllidae;crickets
megalobatrachus;giant salamanders. in some classifications included in the genus cryptobranchus
genus schefflera;large genus of shrubby and climbing tropical plants having showy digitately compound foliage
family veneridae;hard-shell clams
micromyx;old world harvest mice
motacilla;type genus of the motacillidae: wagtails
alyssum;a genus of the family cruciferae
stromateidae;butterfishes: harvest fishes. dollar fishes
odontophorus;genus of central and south american crested partridges resembling quails. sometimes placed in a distinct subfamily or isolated in a distinct family
halenia;genus of herbs of eurasia and the americas: spurred gentians
genus trombicula;type genus of the family trombiculidae
acrocarpus;small genus of trees of indomalaysia
humulus;hops: hardy perennial vines of europe, north america and central and eastern asia producing a latex sap. in some classifications included in the family urticaceae
limanda;a genus of pleuronectidae
leccinum;a genus of fungi belonging to the family boletaceae
plantaginales;coextensive with the family plantaginaceae
big leaf maple;maple of western north america having large 5-lobed leaves orange in autumn
genus eumetopias;sea lions
genus dendrolagus;tree wallabies
collembola;minute wingless arthropods: springtails
oedogoniaceae;filamentous green algae
thalictrum;widely distributed genus of perennial herbs: meadow rue
genus mirabilis;four_o'clocks
fregatidae;frigate birds
genus trachurus;scads esp. horse mackerels
genus haliaeetus;a genus of accipitridae
discoglossidae;family of old world toads having a fixed disklike tongue
genus aleyrodes;type genus of the aleyrodidae
manduca;moths whose larvae are tobacco hornworms or tomato hornworms
genus galleria;a genus of pyralidae
sapindus;type genus of the sapindaceae
genus porzana;spotted crakes
rheum;rhubarb
genus paleacrita;geometrid moths
sporozoa;strictly parasitic protozoans that are usually immobile. includes plasmodia and coccidia and piroplasms and malaria parasites
siluriformes;an order of fish belonging to the superorder malacopterygii including catfishes
genus phylloxera;type genus of the phylloxeridae: plant lice
order salientia;frogs, toads, tree toads
cnemidophorus;whiptails
family chaetodontidae;butterfly fishes
tetrao;type genus of the tetraonidae: capercaillies
mycobacteriacaea;a family of bacteria
peristedion;in some classifications the type genus of the subfamily peristediinae: armored sea robins
genus flacourtia;often spiny trees or shrubs of tropical asia and africa
coptis;small genus of low perennial herbs having yellow rhizomes and white or yellow flowers
genus retama;small genus of mediterranean shrubs. often included in genus genista
zingiberaceae;a family of tropical monocotyledonous plants of order musales
genus geophilus;type genus of the geophilidae: cosmopolitan genus of centipedes sometimes called earwigs
borassus;palmyra
genus capsicum;chiefly tropical perennial shrubby plants having many-seeded fruits: sweet and hot peppers
family aplysiidae;sea hares
genus capros;a genus of fish in the family caproidae
genus piper;type genus of the piperaceae: large genus of chiefly climbing tropical shrubs
genus anagallis;chiefly old world herbs
genus drimys;shrubs and trees of southern hemisphere having aromatic foliage
sorghum vulgare technicum;tall grasses grown for the elongated stiff-branched panicle used for brooms and brushes
codiaeum;evergreen tropical trees and shrubs with thick and colorful leathery leaves. malaya and pacific islands
polyodon;type genus of the polyodontidae
genus tulestoma;type genus of the tulostomaceae
diomedeidae;albatrosses
glossodia;small genus of australian orchids
family vespidae;an arthropod family of the order hymenoptera including: yellow jackets. hornets. mason wasps
antidorcas;springboks
genus anser;typical geese
genus exaeretodon;a genus of reptiles of the division cynodontia
family dracunculidae;greatly elongated roundworm
genus pomacentrus;type genus of the pomacentridae: damselfishes
genus krypterophaneron;a genus of fish in the family anomalopidae
wintergreen family;evergreen herbs of temperate regions: genera pyrola. chimaphila. moneses. orthilia
pylodictus;flathead catfishes
aleyrodes;type genus of the aleyrodidae
bairdiella;drumfish
genus caryocar;type genus of the caryocaraceae. south american trees yielding strong fine-grained wood and edible nuts
actinopoda;heliozoans. radiolarians
genus smilax;sometimes placed in smilacaceae
genus eptatretus;a genus of fossil fish of the family myxinidae
gentiana;type genus of the gentianaceae. cosmopolitan genus of herbs nearly cosmopolitan in cool temperate regions. in some classifications includes genera gentianopsis and gentianella
genus gymnorhina;in some classifications placed in the family laniidae: australian piping crows
pyrrhula;bullfinches
family apiaceae;plants having flowers in umbels: parsley. carrot. anise. caraway. celery. dill
genus dicamptodon;type genus of the dicamptodontidae
microsorium;tropical usually epiphytic ferns. africa to asia and polynesia to australia
dusicyon;crab-eating dog
genus spodoptera;moths whose larvae are armyworms
choeronycteris;a genus of phyllostomatidae
genus melopsittacus;a genus of psittacidae
platystemon;1 species: creamcups
amaryllidaceae;snowdrop. narcissus. daffodil. in some classification systems considered a subfamily of the liliaceae
genus plecotus;a genus of vespertilionidae
genus jacquinia;sometimes placed in family myrsinaceae
family elopidae;tarpons and ladyfishes
family tortricidae;leaf rollers and codling moths
caprimulgidae;goatsuckers
malvastrum;genus of mallows characterized by red and yellow flowers often placed in other genera
genus tinca;tench
family haemulidae;grunts
order pycnogonida;sea spiders
bufonidae;true toads
genus limanda;a genus of pleuronectidae
genus cotula;cosmopolitan herbs especially southern hemisphere. many used as ground covers
family rachycentridae;family of pelagic fishes containing solely the cobia
papilionaceae;leguminous plants whose flowers have butterfly-shaped corollas. commonly included in the family leguminosae
genus strix;owls lacking ear tufts
blastomyces;genus of pathogenic yeastlike fungi
subclass branchiopoda;primitive aquatic mainly freshwater crustaceans: fairy shrimps. brine shrimps. tadpole shrimps. can shrimps. water fleas
genus dimetrodon;a reptile genus of pelycosauria
eutamias;chipmunks of western america and asia
campsis radicans;a north american woody vine having pinnate leaves and large red trumpet-shaped flowers
genus australopithecus;extinct genus of african hominid
genus mimus;type genus of the family mimidae: mockingbirds
helleborus;a genus of helleborus
astragalus;large genus of annual or perennial herbs or shrubs of north temperate regions. largest genus in the family leguminosae
genus plectorrhiza;small genus of australian orchids
zingiber;tropical asiatic and polynesian perennial plants: ginger
family bramidae;deep-bodied percoid fishes of the open seas
genus luffa;dishcloth gourds
loxia;crossbill
genus brunfelsia;genus of tropical american shrubs grown for their flowers followed by fleshy berrylike fruits
genus teredo;type genus of the family teredinidae
genus polyergus;amazon ants
plant kingdom;the taxonomic kingdom comprising all living or extinct plants
sphaeralcea;large genus of chiefly tropical herbs with showy flowers and mostly globose fruits: globe mallows
chaetognatha;arrowworms: a group of small active transparent marine worms
family opisthognathidae;jawfishes
spergularia;chiefly maritimes eurasian herbs: sand spurry. sea spurry
genus heritiera;small genus of timber trees of eastern asia, australasia and tropical africa that form large buttresses
woodwardia;in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae: chain ferns
rhodosphaera;1 species. an australian evergreen sumac
gnathostomata;comprising all vertebrates with upper and lower jaws
triakidae;small smooth-skinned sharks lacking spines on dorsal fins
family rubiaceae;widely distributed family of mostly tropical trees and shrubs and herbs. includes coffee and chinchona and gardenia and madder and bedstraws and partridgeberry
genus mnium;mosses similar to those of genus bryum but larger
blaberus;giant cockroaches
leonotis;small genus of tropical herbs and subshrubs of south africa
genus vaccinium;evergreen or deciduous berry-bearing shrubs of northern hemisphere: cranberries. blueberries
genus heliopsis;oxeye
pelecaniformes;pelicans. frigate birds. gannets. cormorants
genus dracunculus;type genus of the family dracunculidae
malacothamnus;genus of shrubs or small trees: chaparral mallow
synaptomys;bog lemmings
order saprolegniales;order of chiefly aquatic fungi
genus asphodelus;small genus of tall striking annuals or perennials with grasslike foliage and flowers in dense racemes or panicles. mediterranean to himalayas. sometimes placed in family asphodelaceae
genus paralichthys;a genus of bothidae
genus dasyurus;type genus of the family dasyuridae: native cats
animalia;taxonomic kingdom comprising all living or extinct animals
sauropoda;any of the sauropod dinosaurs
cnidaria;hydras. polyps. jellyfishes. sea anemones. corals
genus levisticum;genus of aromatic european herbs with yellow flowers
podicipediformes;grebes
hegari;sudanese sorghums having white seeds. one variety grown in southwestern united states
podilymbus;a genus of podicipedidae
genus struthiomimus;small toothless saurischian dinosaurs. upper cretaceous of canada
genus sistrurus;pygmy rattlesnakes
genus spergula;small genus of old world annual herbs: corn spurry
lycopersicon;tomatoes
genus apodemus;old world field mice
thujopsis;one species. has close similarity to genus thuja
genus compsognathus;a reptile genus of theropoda
family xenicidae;alternative names for the family comprising the new zealand wrens
genus sansevieria;old world tropical herbaceous perennial of the agave family. in some classifications considered a genus of liliaceae
family pucciniaceae;large important family of rust fungi
parula;type genus of the parulidae: wood warblers
gymnosperm genus;a genus of gymnosperms
malvaviscus;small genus of shrubs of central and south america: wax mallows
solenichthyes;bellows fishes. shrimpfishes. cornetfishes. pipefishes. small order of chiefly tropical marine fishes of varied and bizarre form all having a small mouth at the end of a drawn-out tubular snout
hottonia;aquatic herbs
hyalosperma;genus of herbs of temperate australia including some from genus helipterum
theophrastaceae;family of mainly tropical american trees and shrubs similar to those of the myrsinaceae. often included in the myrsinaceae
genista;chiefly deciduous shrubs or small trees of mediterranean area and western asia: broom
telosporidia;parasitic sporozoans that form spores containing one or more infective sporozoites
synentognathi;order of fishes having spineless fins. needlefishes. sauries. flying fishes. halfbeaks
rhizopogon;a genus of fungi having subterranean sporophores resembling tubers
monera;prokaryotic bacteria and blue-green algae and various primitive pathogens. because of lack of consensus on how to divide the organisms into phyla informal names are used for the major divisions
hyacinthaceae;one of many families or subfamilies in which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
carthamus;safflower
family cyclopteridae;lumpfishes
family istiophoridae;sailfishes. spearfishes. marlins
alectoris;a genus of perdicidae
genus alnus;alders
omphalotus;a genus of mushrooms with a depressed disc in the cap
division myxomycota;slime molds. organisms having a noncellular and multinucleate creeping vegetative phase and a propagative spore-producing stage: comprises myxomycetes and acrasiomycetes and plasmodiophoromycetes. in some classifications placed in the kingdom_protoctista
hog millet;extensively cultivated in europe and asia for its grain and in united states sometimes for forage
family lepiotaceae;a family of fungi having free gills and a cap that is cleanly separable from the stalk
family peripatidae;a family of onychophora
arachnida;a large class of arthropods including spiders and ticks and scorpions and daddy longlegs. have four pairs of walking legs and no wings
genus potamophis;ground snakes
genus puccinia;type genus of the pucciniaceae. a large genus of parasitic fungi including many that are destructive to various economic plants
family laricariidae;armored catfish
order chiroptera;an old order dating to early eocene: bats: suborder_megachiroptera (fruit bats). suborder_microchiroptera (insectivorous bats)
genus lepidothamnus;small usually shrubby conifers
cassiope;low tufted evergreen shrubs of colder parts of north temperate regions having mosslike foliage and nodding white or pink flowers
mountain maple;small shrubby maple of eastern north america. scarlet in autumn
leptopteris;including some ferns sometimes placed in genus todea
genus diomedea;type of the diomedeidae
volvocales;chiefly freshwater green algae. solitary or colonial
genus ambloplites;a genus of centrarchidae
acer circinatum;small maple of northwestern north america having prostrate stems that root freely and form dense thickets
jacquinia;sometimes placed in family myrsinaceae
genus saxegothea;1 species: prince albert's yew
grindelia;large genus of coarse gummy herbs of western north and central america
lemnaceae;family of small free-floating thalloid plants
gentianaceae;chiefly herbaceous plants with showy flowers. some are cultivated as ornamentals
lactobacteriaceae;lactic acid bacteria and important pathogens. bacteria that ferment carbohydrates chiefly into lactic acid
pinophytina;most conifers: in some systems classified as a class (pinopsida) and in others as a subdivision (pinophytina). used in some classifications for one of five subdivisions of gymnospermophyta
genus muntiacus;muntjacs
aedes;yellow-fever mosquitos
pristidae;large primitive rays with elongated snouts
selenipedium;genus of tall reedlike tropical american orchids. includes species with pods used locally as a substitute for vanilla
negaprion;lemon sharks
genus actitis;a genus of scolopacidae
genus mononychus;authorities disagree over whether to classify the genus as bird or dinosaur
genus parrotiopsis;1 species: deciduous tree of himalaya
borago;perennial herbs of the mediterranean region
family sarcoscyphaceae;family of fungi belonging to the order pesisales
genus elodea;submerged freshwater perennials
strepsirhini;in some classifications either coextensive with the lemuroidea or comprising the true lemurs
genus mesua;genus of tropical asiatic trees having large solitary flowers
phalaropidae;phalaropes
genus argyreia;woody climbers of tropical asia to australia
argasidae;soft ticks
genus hedysarum;genus of herbs of north temperate regions
plasmodiophoraceae;family of fungi often causing hypertrophy in seed plants
genus zigadenus;genus of mostly north american poisonous plants. sometimes placed in family melanthiaceae
genus chelydra;snapping turtles
opisthognathidae;jawfishes
ephippiorhynchus;saddlebills
order ciconiiformes;order of chiefly tropical marsh-dwelling fish-eating wading birds with long legs and bills and (except for flamingos) unwebbed feet: herons. storks. spoonbills. flamingos. ibises
genus icteria;new world chats
genus origanum;a genus of aromatic mints of the family labiatae
order eurypterida;extinct aquatic arthropods of the paleozoic
oedogoniales;simple or branched filamentous freshwater green algae
family mycobacteriacaea;a family of bacteria
genus bromus;a genus of grasses of the family gramineae
genus cercidiphyllum;1 species: katsura tree
cerastium;mouse-eared chickweed
blastodiaceae;a family of saprobic fungi of order blastocladiales
genus diceros;most common species in africa
elaeocarpaceae;genus of trees and shrubs widely distributed in warm regions some yielding useful timber. in some classifications included in the family santalaceae
genus wyethia;coarse leafy perennial plants resembling sunflowers found especially in the united states
amphioxidae;lancelets
family arcellidae;soil an freshwater protozoa. cosmopolitan
vaccinium;evergreen or deciduous berry-bearing shrubs of northern hemisphere: cranberries. blueberries
genus sphagnum;a large genus constituting the order sphagnales: atypical mosses of temperate bogs with leaves that can hold much water
genus coelogyne;large diverse genus of tropical asiatic epiphytic orchids
bombycilla;waxwings
pyrenomycetes;class of fungi in which the fruiting body is a perithecium. includes powdery mildews and ergot and neurospora
genus sonora;ground snakes
ocimum;basil
genus casuarina;genus of trees and shrubs widely naturalized in southern united states and west indies. coextensive with the family casuarinaceae and order casuarinales
genus ctenocephalides;an arthropod genus formerly called genus ctenocephalus
genus onychomys;grasshopper mice
genus genista;chiefly deciduous shrubs or small trees of mediterranean area and western asia: broom
trephritidae;fruit flies. some leafminers
family laniidae;shrikes
diceros;most common species in africa
genus botaurus;bitterns
genus pellaea;genus of chiefly small rock-loving ferns. in some classifican systems placed in family polypodiaceae or adiantaceae
hippocastanaceae;trees having showy flowers and inedible nutlike seeds in a leathery capsule
genus armoracia;horseradish
sticherus;umbrella ferns. warm regions of australia and new zealand
family meliphagidae;honey_eaters
genus carcharodon;man-eating sharks
aneides;climbing salamanders
aizoaceae;succulent herbs or small shrubs mostly of south africa but also new zealand and north america: carpetweeds. fig marigolds
zygnemataceae;pond scums: common freshwater algae forming green slimy masses
spirochaeta;type genus of the family spirochaetaceae. flexible undulating chiefly aquatic bacteria
order ustilaginales;parasitic fungi causing smuts. sometimes placed in class tiliomycetes
culex;type genus of the culicidae: widespread genus of mosquitoes distinguished by holding the body parallel to the resting surface
cyperaceae;bulrush. chufa. cotton grass. papyrus. umbrella plant
crescentia;a genus of tropical american trees of the family bignoniaceae. has a short trunk and crooked limbs and drooping branches
mycrosporidia;an order in the subclass cnidosporidia
dicentra;north american and asian herbs with divided leaves and irregular flowers
genus ariomma;a genus of stromateidae
genus chloris;tufted or perennial or annual grasses having runners: finger grass. windmill grass
genus notemigonus;golden shiners
family bombycidae;chinese silkworm moth
genus branta;wild geese
fouquieria;resinous succulent trees or shrubs of desert and semi-desert regions of southwestern united states that are leafless most of the year
pipistrellus;nearly cosmopolitan genus of very small bats
family leguminosae;a large family of trees, shrubs, vines, and herbs bearing bean pods. divided for convenience into the subfamilies caesalpiniaceae. mimosaceae. papilionaceae
pluvialis;golden plovers
genus conradina;small genus of low aromatic shrubs of southeastern united states
myxinidae;slime-producing marine animals: hagfishes
family pectinidae;scallops
family kasuwonidae;in some classifications considered a separate family comprising the oceanic bonitos
anoplura;sucking lice
pauropoda;an obscure class of minute arthropods with branched antennae and 8 to 10 pairs of legs
aepyorniformes;huge extinct flightless birds: elephant birds
genus physalis;ground cherries
family polygalaceae;trees, shrubs, and herbs widely distributed throughout both hemispheres
cryptogramma;sometimes placed in family polypodiaceae or cryptogrammataceae
lepadidae;goose barnacles
carex;large genus of plants found in damp woodlands and bogs and ditches or at water margins: sedges
genus angraecum;genus of tropical old world epiphytic orchids with showy flowers sometimes grotesque
genus styrax;deciduous or evergreen shrubs and small trees
zoarcidae;eelpouts
family eurylaimidae;coextensive with the suborder eurylaimi
suborder ornithomimida;lightly built medium-size theropods
portunus;type genus of the family portunidae
plasmodiophora;type genus of plasmodiophoracea comprising minute plant parasitic fungi similar to and sometimes included among the slime molds
sigmodon;american cotton rats
taccaceae;small family of tropical herbs
suidae;pigs. hogs. boars
genus arundo;any of several coarse tall perennial grasses of most warm areas: reeds
order rodentia;small gnawing animals: porcupines. rats. mice. squirrels. marmots. beavers. gophers. voles. hamsters. guinea pigs. agoutis
fucaceae;small family of brown algae: gulfweeds. rockweeds
genus ptilocrinus;sea lilies
radyera;very small species of shrubs of southern hemisphere: bush_hibiscus
dermestidae;carpet beetles
craspedia;herbs of australia and new zealand
numida;guinea fowl
genus alisma;small genus of aquatic or semiaquatic plants
muntiacus;muntjacs
genus petteria;1 species: dalmatian laburnum
genus pedionomus;plain wanderer
tsuga;hemlock. hemlock fir. hemlock spruce
limenitis;mainly dark northern butterflies with white wing bars
genus hunnemania;1 species: golden cup
genus ecballium;exploding cucumber. squirting cucumber
ceterach;small genus of old world ferns. superseded in some classification systems which place plants of this genus in e.g. genera asplenium and pleurosorus
genus dracula;comprises tropical american species usually placed in genus masdevallia: diminutive plants having bizarre and often sinister-looking flowers with pendulous scapes and motile lips
genus triaenodon;a genus of triakidae
phthiriidae;crab lice
leucaena;small genus of tropical evergreen trees or shrubs having pods like those of the acacia
genus charronia;a genus of mustelidae
aranea;a genus of orb-weaving spiders including common garden spiders and barn spiders
genus podiceps;type genus of the podicipedidae: grebes
dendrocolaptes;type genus of the dendrocolaptidae
genus macrozamia;genus of large evergreen australian cycads. sometimes classified in family cycadaceae
genus nomia;a genus of bee. some are important pollinators of legumes
genus pyrethrum;used in former classifications for plants later placed in genus chrysanthemum and now often included in genus tanacetum
class lycopodiate;club mosses and related forms: includes lycopodiales. isoetales. selaginellales. and extinct lepidodendrales. sometimes considered a subdivision of tracheophyta
green broom;deciduous erect spreading broom native to western europe. widely cultivated for its rich yellow flowers
genus rhynchoelaps;australian coral snakes
prinia;a genus of sylviidae
eumenes;mason wasps
genus onopordum;a genus of eurasian herbs of the family compositae with prickly foliage and large purplish flowers
genus plethodon;type genus of the plethodontidae
carlina;genus of mediterranean thistles
kaffir;important for human and animal food. growth habit and stem form similar to indian corn but having sawtooth-edged leaves
acanthisitta;a genus of xenicidae
secale;cereal grass widely cultivated for its grain: rye
genus jynx;wrynecks
zantedeschia;calla lily
genus liriodendron;tulip trees
icterus;type genus of the icteridae
ruminantia;cattle. bison. sheep. goats. antelopes. deer. chevrotains. giraffes. camels
phellodendron;small genus of aromatic deciduous trees of east asia often having thick corky bark
family tulostomaceae;stalked puffballs
nuda;ctenophores lacking tentacles. comprises one genus: beroe
mucoraceae;large family of chiefly saprophytic fungi that includes many common molds destructive to food products
genus thamnophis;garter snakes
picidae;woodpeckers
chlamydosaurus;frilled lizards
astrophyton;includes many of the basket stars
arachis;a genus of plants with pods that ripen underground (see peanut)
genus oxytropis;large widely-distributed genus of evergreen shrubs or subshrubs having odd-pinnate leaves and racemose or spicate flowers each having a pealike corolla with a clawed petal
gleicheniaceae;a family of ferns belonging to order filicales
usneaceae;fruticose lichens having prostrate or erect or pendullus thalli: genera usnea. evernia. ramalina. alectoria
family fagaceae;chiefly monoecious trees and shrubs: beeches. chestnuts. oaks. genera castanea. castanopsis. chrysolepis. fagus. lithocarpus. nothofagus. quercus
genus chauna;crested screamers
genus danaus;type genus of the danaidae: monarch butterflies
genus lycoperdon;genus of fungi whose fruiting body tapers toward a base consisting of spongy mycelium
chondrus;a genus of protoctista
genus scolymus;small genus of thistlelike herbs of the mediterranean region
family taxaceae;sometimes classified as member of order taxales
cambarus;a genus of astacidae
family cichlidae;cichlids
lycosidae;wolf spiders
sarcostemma;succulent subshrubs or vines. tropical and subtropical india and africa and malaysia
atropidae;booklice
genus samolus;genus of herbs usually growing in salt marshes: water pimpernels
seriola;a genus of carangidae
feterita;a sudanese sorghum having exceptionally large soft white grains
genus chaenactis;genus of flowering herbs of western united states
genus pyxidanthera;1 species: pyxie. the eastern united states
family geometridae;measuring worms
boletus;type genus of boletaceae. genus of soft early-decaying pore fungi. some poisonous and some edible
family dinornithidae;moas
genus gypaetus;in some classifications the type genus of the family aegypiidae
genus staphylea;a genus of small trees or shrubs of the family staphylaceae
genus pica;magpies
lavatera;widespread genus or herbs or soft-wooded arborescent shrubs cultivated for their showy flowers
nutmeg family;family of aromatic tropical trees with arillate seeds
genus micrococcus;type genus of the family_micrococcaceae
genus tachyglossus;type genus of the family tachyglossidae
genus thujopsis;one species. has close similarity to genus thuja
genus amphicarpa;very small genus of twining vines of north america and asia: hog peanut
hippocrepis;species of old world herbs or subshrubs: horseshoe_vetch
genus garcinia;evergreen trees and shrubs: mangosteens
chiroptera;an old order dating to early eocene: bats: suborder_megachiroptera (fruit bats). suborder_microchiroptera (insectivorous bats)
genus doodia;in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae. small terrestrial colony-forming ferns of australasia
utricularia;bladderworts: large genus of aquatic carnivorous plants. cosmopolitan in distribution
protoctist order;the order of protoctista
genus abudefduf;damsel fishes
pleurobrachiidae;sea gooseberries
scindapsus;evergreen climbers with adhesive adventitious roots. southeastern asia and brazil
procnias;bellbirds
genus pterostylis;genus of terrestrial orchids of australia and new zealand and western pacific
menticirrhus;kingfishes. whiting
class rhodophyceae;coextensive with the rhodophyta: red algae
bankia;giant shipworms
family carpinaceae;used in some classification systems for the genera carpinus. ostryopsis. and ostryopsis
family coccinellidae;the ladybugs
family helicidae;land snails including the common edible snail and some pests
genus grindelia;large genus of coarse gummy herbs of western north and central america
family araceae;anthurium. calla lily. jack-in-the-pulpit. philodendron
hydnum;type genus of hydnaceae
andropogon;tall annual or perennial grasses with spikelike racemes. warm regions
pterois;lionfishes
family acanthaceae;widely distributed herbs and shrubs and trees. sometimes placed in the order scrophulariales
order corrodentia;an order of insects: includes booklice and barklice
cynoglossidae;tonguefishes
genus larus;type genus of the laridae
genus gyromitra;a genus of fungi of the family helvellaceae with a fertile portion that is tan to brown
reptile family;a family of reptiles
rosaceae;a large family of dicotyledonous plants of order rosales. have alternate leaves and five-petaled flowers with numerous stamens
genus pinguicula;butterworts: a large genus of almost stemless carnivorous bog plants. europe and america to antarctica
hemachatus;ringhals
pisum;small genus of variable annual eurasian vines: peas
broussonetia;paper mulberry
rhyniaceae;primitive plants of the paleozoic
genus istiophorus;type genus of the istiophoridae
genus parus;type genus of the family paridae
subfamily nelumbonaceae;in some classifications considered an independent family of water lilies. comprises the single genus nelumbo
lobotidae;tripletails
rush family;tufted herbs resembling grasses: rushes
family capromyidae;coypus
grain sorghum;any of several sorghums cultivated primarily for grain
genus balanus;type genus of the family balanidae
family reduviidae;assassin bugs
petaurista;very large asiatic flying squirrels
tubulidentata;an order of eutheria
genus cerastium;mouse-eared chickweed
lagostomus;viscachas
subgenus;(biology) taxonomic group between a genus and a species
drymarchon;a genus of colubridae
genus schaffneria;1 species
philomachus;ruffs
crassulaceae;succulent shrubs and herbs
genus polyangium;type genus of the family polyangiaceae: myxobacteria with rounded fruiting bodies enclosed in a membrane
genus dipodomys;kangaroo rats
order collembola;minute wingless arthropods: springtails
genus halicoeres;a genus of labridae
stizolobium;genus of tropical herbs and woody vines having trifoliate leaves and showy flowers in axillary clusters
cypress family;cypresses and junipers and many cedars
genus dreissena;zebra mussels
scheuchzeriaceae;a family of monocotyledonous bog herbs of order naiadales
genus cicada;type genus of the cicadidae: cicadas
family serranidae;marine fishes: sea basses. sea perches. groupers. jewfish
genus avicennia;small genus of tropical shrubs or trees
genus libocedrus;cypresses that resemble cedars
pythoninae;old world boas: pythons. in some classifications considered a separate family from boidae
percomorphi;one of the largest natural groups of fishes of both marine and fresh water: true perches. basses. tuna
lithospermum;annual or perennial herbaceous or shrubby plants. cosmopolitan except australia
dracaenaceae;one of two subfamilies to which some classification systems assign some members of the agavaceae
archosargus;a genus of sparidae
phrynosoma;horned lizards
spalacidae;mole rats
swietinia;tropical american mahogany trees
polyporaceae;fungi that become corky or woody with age, often forming shelflike growths on trees
genus ichthyostega;second earliest fossil amphibian ever found. of the devonian. found in greenland
spermatophyta;seed plants. comprises the angiospermae (or magnoliophyta) and gymnospermae (or gymnospermophyta). in some classification systems spermatophyta is coordinate with pteridophyta (spore producing plants having vascular tissue and roots) and bryophyta (spore producing plants lacking vascular tissue and roots)
chlamydomonadaceae;green algae some of which are colored red by hematochrome
selaginella apoda;spikemoss forming dense mats. eastern north america
family sciadoptyaceae;family comprising a single genus that until recently was considered part of taxodiaceae
genus armillariella;a honey-colored diminutive form of genus armillaria. grows in clusters. edible (when cooked) but most attention has been on how to get rid of it
pseudotsuga;douglas fir. closely related to genera larix and cathaya
genus pan;chimpanzees. more closely related to australopithecus than to other pongids
trionyx;type genus of the trionychidae
genus heliothis;a genus of noctuidae
genus rhagoletis;a genus of trypetidae
genus eira;a genus of mustelidae
family pomatomidae;food and game fishes related to pompanos
genus hamamelidanthum;genus of fossil plants of the oligocene having flowers resembling those of the witch hazel. found in baltic region
class coniferopsida;cone-bearing gymnosperms dating from the carboniferous period. most are substantial trees. includes the classes pinopsida (subdivision pinophytina) and ginkgopsida (subdivision ginkgophytina) and taxopsida (subdivision taxophytina) which in turn include the surviving orders coniferales and taxales (yews) and sometimes ginkgoales as well as extinct orders such as cordaitales (of the carboniferous and permian) and volztiales (of the permian-jurassic)
lamna;a genus of lamnidae
genus thysanocarpus;small genus of herbs of upland regions of north american pacific coast
trichiuridae;cutlassfishes
nicotiana;american and asiatic aromatic herbs and shrubs with viscid foliage
family lactobacillaceae;lactic acid bacteria and important pathogens. bacteria that ferment carbohydrates chiefly into lactic acid
genus tragelaphus;african antelopes: kudus. bongos. nyalas. bushbucks
genus vesicaria;small genus of chiefly mediterranean herbs: bladderpods
argonautidae;represented solely by the genus argonauta
genus verbesina;herbs and shrubs of warm north america to mexico. includes plants formerly placed in genus actinomeris
sillaginidae;small family of small food fishes of shallow indo-pacific waters
family bennettitaceae;a family of fossil gymnospermous plants of the carboniferous
threskiornis;type genus of the threskiornithidae
genus hackelia;stickseed. beggar's lice
genus lophius;type genus of family lophiidae
genus eriobotrya;asiatic evergreen fruit trees
sciaena;type genus of the sciaenidae: croakers
atriplex;orach. saltbush
genus rosa;large genus of erect or climbing prickly shrubs including roses
family staphylaceae;a family of dicotyledonous plants of order sapindales found mostly in the north temperate zone
genus tethus;type genus of the family aplysiidae
genus pyralis;type genus of the pyralidae
division protista;eukaryotic one-celled living organisms distinct from multicellular plants and animals: protozoa, slime molds, and eukaryotic algae
genus seriphidium;woody plants grown chiefly for their silver or gray and often aromatic foliage. formerly included in the genus artemisia
family cordaitaceae;chiefly paleozoic plants. cordaites is the chief and typical genus
genus packera;genus of american of east asian perennial herbs with yellow to orange or red flower rays. sometimes included in genus senecio
order squamata;diapsid reptiles: snakes and lizards
dromaeosauridae;swift-running bipedal dinosaurs
genus spondias;tropical trees having one-seeded fruit
genus condylura;sar-nosed moles
maja;type genus of the majidae. nearly cosmopolitan
kyphosus;type genus of the kyphosidae
genus staphylococcus;includes many pathogenic species
lactarius;large genus of white-spored agarics that include a white or milky juice when cut or broken. includes both edible and poisonous species
mephitinae;subdivision not used in some classifications: skunks
genus tetragonurus;a genus of stromateidae
genus muntingia;1 species: jamaican cherry. sometimes placed in family flacourtiaceae
genus rhyncostylis;genus of epiphytic orchids of tropical asia
genus macropus;type genus of the family macropodidae: typical kangaroos and wallabies
oecanthus;tree crickets
genus asparagus;large genus of old world perennial herbs with erect or spreading or climbing stems and small scalelike leaves and inconspicuous flowers. sometimes placed in family asparagaceae
genus choeronycteris;a genus of phyllostomatidae
genus vicugna;a genus of camelidae
genus achillea;perennial often aromatic and sometimes mat-forming herbs of north temperate regions: yarrow. milfoil
loasaceae;family of bristly hairy sometimes climbing plants. america and africa and southern arabia
viverridae;genets. civets. mongooses
sphaerocarpaceae;liverworts with bilaterally symmetrical gametophytes. sometimes placed in the order jungermanniales
nidulariales;small order of basidiomycetous fungi comprising families nidulariaceae and sphaerobolaceae
order bryales;category used in some classification systems for mosses having the spore case separated from the capsule wall by a hollow intercellular space
delonix;evergreen or deciduous trees of tropical africa and india
acer platanoides;a large eurasian maple tree naturalized in north america. 5-lobed leaves yellow in autumn. cultivated in many varieties
petrogale;rock wallabies
family endamoebidae;a large family of endoparasitic amebas that invade the digestive tract
genus hyalophora;american silkworm moth
hexalectris;a monocotyledonous genus of the family orchidaceae
genus pastinaca;a rosid dicot genus of the family umbelliferae. includes parsnips
genus fungia;mushroom corals
jambos;used in some classifications for rose apples (eugenia jambos)
dolichonyx;bobolinks
genus ambrosia;comprising the ragweeds. in some classification considered the type genus of a separate family ambrosiaceae
penstemon;large genus of subshrubs or herbs having showy blue or purple or red or yellow or white flowers. mostly western north america
family myrmeleontidae;antlions
genus achoerodus;a genus of labridae
napaea;1 species: glade mallow
genus cheiranthus;old world perennial plants grown for their showy flowers
anaspida;extinct order of jawless vertebrates
genus cyperus;type genus of cyperaceae. grasslike rhizomatous herbs. cosmopolitan except very cold regions
zapus;type genus of the zapodidae
family ambystomatidae;new world salamanders
genus alca;type genus of the alcidae comprising solely the razorbill
family dilleniaceae;chiefly tropical shrubs and trees and climbers having leathery leaves or flattened leaflike stems: genera dillenia. hibbertia
lambis;scorpion shells of shallow tropical waters of the eastern hemisphere
genus rhizopus;genus of rot-causing fungi having columnar hemispherical aerial sporangia anchored to the substrate by rhizoids
alsobia;tropical american herbs sometimes included in genus episcia
order perciformes;one of the largest natural groups of fishes of both marine and fresh water: true perches. basses. tuna
family scutigeridae;a family of chilopoda
family dipterocarpaceae;chiefly tropical asian trees with two-winged fruits. yield valuable woods and aromatic oils and resins
order picariae;term used in some classifications as nearly equivalent to the order coraciiformes
molossidae;mastiff bats. freetail bats
genus rhapis;genus of small clump-forming fan palms of china and japan
family marantaceae;tropical perennial herbs with usually starchy rhizomes
family lecanoraceae;a fungus family of the division lichenes
agapornis;a genus of psittacidae
mysidae;small shrimp-like crustaceans
florida selaginella;occurs widely in florida
genus capreolus;roe deer
pelargonium;geraniums native chiefly to south africa. widely cultivated
spiranthes;large cosmopolitan genus of white-flowered terrestrial orchids
labiatae;the mints: aromatic herbs and shrubs having flowers resembling the lips of a mouth and four-lobed ovaries yielding four one-seeded nutlets and including thyme. sage. rosemary
suborder euronithopoda;widespread group including duck-billed dinosaurs and their early relatives (hadrosaurs. trachodon. iguanodon)
family catostomidae;suckers. closely related to the family cyprinidae
formicariidae;antbirds
medicago;a genus of herbs that resemble clover
family trapaceae;family comprising solely the genus trapa. in some classifications treated as a subfamily or tribe of the family_onagraceae
genus anchusa;rough-hairy old world herbs
schistosoma;type genus of the family schistosomatidae: blood flukes
bulnesia;palo santo
hippobosca;type genus of the hippoboscidae
order piperales;piperaceae. saururaceae. chloranthaceae
subfamily cabombaceae;in some classifications considered an independent family of water lilies. comprises the genera cabomba and brasenia
wolffia;minute rootless aquatic herbs having globular fronds floating on or near the water surface and bearing one flower per frond
genus cocos;coconut palms
northern pocket gopher;grayish to brown gopher of western and central united states
tragulidae;chevrotains
holothuria;type genus of the holothuridae
genus lunda;puffins
pandanales;families typhaceae. sparganiaceae. pandanaceae
adalia;genus of ladybugs
family brassicaceae;plants with four-petaled flowers
order decapoda;squids and cuttlefishes
family embiotocidae;viviparous percoid fishes comprising the surf fishes
ctenophore genus;a genus of ctenophores
epilobium;large widely distributed genus of herbs and subshrubs of especially western north america and arctic areas
xiphosura;horseshoe crabs and extinct forms
nepenthaceae;coextensive with the genus nepenthes
phyllostomatidae;new world leaf-nosed bats
basidiomycetes;large class of higher fungi coextensive with subdivision basidiomycota
poecilogale;muishonds
forficulidae;typical earwigs
genus stenochlaena;large tropical ferns. some epiphytic climbers and some terrestrial bog ferns. africa. asia. australasia
anhimidae;screamers
family tilletiaceae;a family of smut fungi having a simple promycelium bearing the spores in an apical cluster
porzana;spotted crakes
melicocca;tropical american trees and shrubs bearing berries
sarcochilus;diminutive epiphytic or lithophytic orchids with clumped short-stemmed foliage and arching racemes of colorful flowers. australia and polynesia to southeastern asia
scottish maple;eurasian maple tree with pale gray bark that peels in flakes like that of a sycamore tree. leaves with five ovate lobes yellow in autumn
striped maple;maple of eastern north america with striped bard and large 2-lobed leaves clear yellow in autumn
genus adiantum;cosmopolitan genus of ferns: maidenhair ferns. in some classification systems placed in family polypodiaceae or adiantaceae
genus cadra;a genus of pyralidae
bovidae;true antelopes. cattle. oxen. sheep. goats
eudyptes;rock hoppers
family xanthorrhoeaceae;one of many subfamilies into which some classification systems subdivide the liliaceae but not widely accepted
sarcoscyphaceae;family of fungi belonging to the order pesisales
genus manduca;moths whose larvae are tobacco hornworms or tomato hornworms
genus tupaia;type genus of the tupaia: chief genus of tree shrews
family pyralidae;bee moths. corn borers. flour moths
genus hyemoschus;water chevrotains
gadus;type genus of the gadidae: the typical codfishes
genus sphyrapicus;a genus of picidae
genus echinocactus;globular or cylindrical cacti. southwestern united states to brazil
family hylidae;tree frogs
lutjanus;type genus of the lutjanidae: snappers
order myaceae;clams
centriscidae;shrimpfishes
grewia;a genus of tropical and subtropical old world climbers or shrubs or trees
family bryaceae;a family of acrocarpous mosses
genus aplodontia;type genus of the aplodontiidae: comprising the mountain beavers
genus tetrahymena;protozoa having four membranous ciliary organelles
family pediculidae;true lice: human lice and related forms
bartle frere;a living fossil or so-called 'green dinosaur': genus or subfamily of primitive nut-bearing trees thought to have died out 50 million years ago. a single specimen found in 1994 on mount bartle frere in eastern australia. not yet officially named
bradypodidae;true sloths. in some
genus oenothera;chiefly north american herbs with usually nocturnal flowers
genus aethionema;old world genus of the family cruciferae
genus erechtites;coarse herbs with whitish discoid flower heads and silky pappus
strymon;large and widely distributed genus of hairstreak butterflies
family patellidae;marine limpets
genus bellis;daisy
fissurella;type genus of the family fissurellidae: keyhole limpets
genus lepidochelys;ridleys
beta;beets
raphia;feather palm of tropical africa and madagascar and central and south america widely grown for commercial purposes
family melastomaceae;a family of trees and bushes and herbs of order myrtales. many are cultivated as ornamentals
subfamily melolonthidae;considered a separate family in some classification systems
family capparidaceae;a dilleniid dicot family of the order rhoeadales that includes: genera capparis. cleome. crateva. polanisia
genus spathiphyllum;evergreen rhizomatous perennials of tropical america and philippines and indonesia
pteropus;a genus of megachiroptera
order musales;tropical plants
genus lardizabala;evergreen monoecious climbers of south america having dark mauve-blue edible berries
lithodidae;deep-sea crabs of cold waters
genus gloxinia;small genus of tropical american herbs with leafy stems and axillary flowers
order volvocales;chiefly freshwater green algae. solitary or colonial
genus callimorpha;cinnabar moths
genus tamarix;genus of deciduous shrubs or small trees of eastern mediterranean regions and tropical asia
