past tense;a verb tense that expresses actions or states in the past
person;a grammatical category of pronouns and verb forms. 'stop talking about yourself in the third person'
case;nouns or pronouns or adjectives (often marked by inflection) related in some way to other words in a sentence
subject case;the category of nouns serving as the grammatical subject of a verb
past progressive;a progressive tense used to describe on-going action in the past. 'i had been running' is an example of the past progressive'
form class;one of the traditional categories of words intended to reflect their functions in a grammatical context
participle;a non-finite form of the verb. in english it is used adjectivally and to form compound tenses
perfect;a tense of verbs used in describing action that has been completed (sometimes regarded as perfective aspect)
continuous tense;a tense of verbs used in describing action that is on-going
present progressive tense;a tense used to express action that is on-going at the time of utterance
perfective tense;a tense of verbs used in describing action that has been completed (sometimes regarded as perfective aspect)
accusative case;the category of nouns serving as the direct object of a verb
perfect participle;a participle that expresses completed action
verb;a word that serves as the predicate of a sentence
mineral kingdom;all inorganic objects. contrasts with animal and plant kingdoms
instrumental;the case indicating the instrument used in performing the action of the verb
historical present;the use of the present tense to describe past actions or states
locative;the case indicating where the action described by the verb occurred
preterite;a term formerly used to refer to the simple past tense
malacostraca;largest subclass of crustacea including most of the well-known marine, freshwater, and terrestrial crustaceans: crabs. lobsters. shrimps. sow bugs. beach flies
vocative;the case (in some inflected languages) used when the referent of the noun is being addressed
past perfect tense;a perfective tense used to express action completed in the past. 'ihad finished' is an example of the past perfect'
infinitive;the uninflected form of the verb
present progressive;a tense used to express action that is on-going at the time of utterance
oblique;any grammatical case other than the nominative
major form class;any of the parts of speech of traditional grammar
present participle;a participle expressing present action. in english is formed by adding -ing
transitive verb;a verb (or verb construction) that requires an object to be grammatical
part of speech;one of the traditional categories of words intended to reflect their functions in a grammatical context
progressive tense;a tense of verbs used in describing action that is on-going
present;a verb tense that expresses actions or states at the time of speaking
grammatical case;nouns or pronouns or adjectives (often marked by inflection) related in some way to other words in a sentence
intransitive verb form;a verb (or verb construction) that does not take an object
declension;a class of nouns having the same inflectional forms: 'the first declension in latin'
doubly transitive verb;a transitive verb that takes both a direct and an indirect object
locative case;the case indicating where the action described by the verb occurred
stamp;a type or class. 'more men of his stamp are needed'
aorist;a verb tense in some languages (classical greek. sanskrit) expressing action (especially past) without indicating its completion or continuation
kingdom;"a basic group of natural objects"
instrumental case;the case indicating the instrument used in performing the action of the verb
dative case;the category of nouns serving as the indirect object of a verb
adverb;the word class that qualifies verbs or clauses
word class;one of the traditional categories of words intended to reflect their functions in a grammatical context
pluferfect tense;a perfective tense used to express action completed in the past. 'ihad finished' is an example of the past perfect'
future progressive;a progressive tense used to express action that will be on-going in the future. 'i will be running' is an example of the future progressive'
vocative case;the case (in some inflected languages) used when the referent of the noun is being addressed
syntactic category;a category of words having the same grammatical properties
present perfect tense;a perfective tense used to express action completed in the present. 'i have finished' is an example of the present perfect'
third person;pronouns and verbs used to refer to something other than the speaker or addressee of the language in which they occur
nominative;the category of nouns serving as the grammatical subject of a verb
ablative case;the case indicating the agent in passive sentences or the instrument or manner or place of the action described by the verb
family;"a collection of things sharing a common attribute. 'there are two classes of detergents'"
diplopoda;arthropods having the body composed of numerous double somites each with two pairs of legs: millipedes
objective case;the category of nouns serving as the direct object of a verb
gender;a grammatical category in inflected languages governing the agreement between nouns and pronouns and adjectives. in some languages it is quite arbitrary but in indo-european languages it is usually based on sex or animateness
perfect tense;a tense of verbs used in describing action that has been completed (sometimes regarded as perfective aspect)
past participle;a participle that expresses completed action
class diplopoda;arthropods having the body composed of numerous double somites each with two pairs of legs: millipedes
present perfect;a perfective tense used to express action completed in the present. 'i have finished' is an example of the present perfect'
sex;either of the two categories (male or female) into which most organisms are divided. 'the war between the sexes'
grammatical category;a category of words having the same grammatical properties
pluperfect;a perfective tense used to express action completed in the past. 'ihad finished' is an example of the past perfect'
split infinitive;an infinitive with an adverb between 'to' and the verb (e.g., 'to boldly go')
future tense;a verb tense that expresses actions or states in the future
possessive case;the case expressing ownership
tense;a grammatical category of verbs used to express distinctions of time
past;a verb tense that expresses actions or states in the past
class;"a collection of things sharing a common attribute. 'there are two classes of detergents'"
past perfect;a perfective tense used to express action completed in the past. 'ihad finished' is an example of the past perfect'
class myriapoda;arthropods having the body composed of numerous double somites each with two pairs of legs: millipedes
number;(linguistics) the grammatical category for the forms of nouns and pronouns and verbs that are used depending on the number of entities involved (singular or dual or plural). 'in english the subject and the verb must agree in number'
preterit;a term formerly used to refer to the simple past tense
grammatical gender;a grammatical category in inflected languages governing the agreement between nouns and pronouns and adjectives. in some languages it is quite arbitrary but in indo-european languages it is usually based on sex or animateness
transitive verb form;a verb (or verb construction) that requires an object to be grammatical
category;"a collection of things sharing a common attribute. 'there are two classes of detergents'"
accusative;the category of nouns serving as the direct object of a verb
ablative;the case indicating the agent in passive sentences or the instrument or manner or place of the action described by the verb
conjugation;a class of verbs having the same inflectional forms
second person;pronouns and verbs used to refer to the person addressed by the language in which they occur
genitive;the case expressing ownership
masculine;a gender that refers chiefly (but not exclusively) to males or to objects classified as male
doubly transitive verb form;a transitive verb that takes both a direct and an indirect object
noun;a word that can serve as the subject or object of a verb
feminine;a gender that refers chiefly (but not exclusively) to females or to objects classified as female
genitive case;the case expressing ownership
subclass malacostraca;largest subclass of crustacea including most of the well-known marine, freshwater, and terrestrial crustaceans: crabs. lobsters. shrimps. sow bugs. beach flies
intransitive verb;a verb (or verb construction) that does not take an object
dative;the category of nouns serving as the indirect object of a verb
perfective;a tense of verbs used in describing action that has been completed (sometimes regarded as perfective aspect)
imperfect tense;a tense of verbs used in describing action that is on-going
nominative case;the category of nouns serving as the grammatical subject of a verb
future perfect tense;a perfective tense used to describe action that will be completed in the future. 'i will have finished' is an example of the future perfect'
oblique case;any grammatical case other than the nominative
adjective;the word class that qualifies nouns
past progressive tense;a progressive tense used to describe on-going action in the past. 'i had been running' is an example of the past progressive'
class larvacea;small free-swimming tunicates. sometimes classified as an order
myriapoda;arthropods having the body composed of numerous double somites each with two pairs of legs: millipedes
neuter;a gender that refers chiefly (but not exclusively) to inanimate objects (neither masculine nor feminine)
future perfect;a perfective tense used to describe action that will be completed in the future. 'i will have finished' is an example of the future perfect'
future progressive tense;a progressive tense used to express action that will be on-going in the future. 'i will be running' is an example of the future progressive'
present tense;a verb tense that expresses actions or states at the time of speaking
larvacea;small free-swimming tunicates. sometimes classified as an order
future;a verb tense that expresses actions or states in the future
imperfect;a tense of verbs used in describing action that is on-going
progressive;a tense of verbs used in describing action that is on-going
first person;pronouns and verbs used to refer to the speaker or writer of the language in which they occur
