hang;a special way of doing something. 'he had a bent for it'. 'he had a special knack for getting into trouble'. 'he couldn't get the hang of it'
apollo program;a program of space flights undertaken by us to land a man on the moon. 'the first lunar landing was achieved by the apollo program on july 20, 1969'
stagecraft;skill in writing or staging plays
woodcraft;skill in carving or fashioning objects from wood
current account;that part of the balance of payments recording a nation's exports and imports of goods and services and transfer payments
imagination;the ability to deal resourcefully with unusual problems. 'a man of resource'
somesthesia;the faculty of bodily perception. sensory systems associated with the body. includes skin senses and proprioception and the internal organs
superior skill;the superior ability that is attained by study and practice and observation. 'he had mastered the art of a great craftsman'
castle in spain;absent-minded dreaming while awake
vigilance;the process of paying close and continuous attention
brainpower;mental ability. 'he's got plenty of brains but no common sense'
module;one of the inherent cognitive or perceptual powers of the mind
acquisition;an ability that has been acquired by training
sensory system;a particular sense
fecundity;the intellectual fruitfulness of a creative imagination
flair;a natural talent. 'he has a flair for mathematics'. 'he has a genius for interior decorating'
mental faculty;one of the inherent cognitive or perceptual powers of the mind
guile;shrewdness as demonstrated by being skilled in deception
logic;reasoned and reasonable judgment. 'it made a certain kind of logic'
night vision;the ability to see in reduced illumination (as in moonlight)
coup de theatre;a sensational bit of stagecraft
astuteness;the intellectual ability to penetrate deeply into ideas
breadth;an ability to understand a broad range of topics. 'a teacher must have a breadth of knowledge of the subject'
particularism;a focus on something particular
technicolor;a trademarked method of making color motion pictures
attainment;an ability that has been acquired by training
wisdom;ability to apply knowledge or experience or understanding or common sense and insight
nonverbal intelligence;intelligence that is manifested in the performance of tasks requiring little or no use of language
salesmanship;skill in selling. skill in persuading people to buy. 'he read a book on salesmanship but it didn't help'
foxiness;shrewdness as demonstrated by being skilled in deception
numeracy;skill with numbers and mathematics
sagaciousness;ability to make good judgments
memory;the power of retaining and recalling past experience. 'he had a good memory when he was younger'
proprioception;the ability to sense the position and location and orientation and movement of the body and its parts
indiscreetness;lacking good judgment
pipe dream;a fantastic but vain hope (from fantasies induced by the opium pipe). 'i have this pipe dream about being emperor of the universe'
kinaesthesis;the ability to feel movements of the limbs and body
biofeedback;a training program in which a person is given information about physiological processes (heart rate or blood pressure) that is not normally available with the goal of gaining conscious control of them
mother wit;sound practical judgment. 'he hasn't got the sense god gave little green apples'
excitability;excessive sensitivity of an organ or body part
somatosensory system;the faculty of bodily perception. sensory systems associated with the body. includes skin senses and proprioception and the internal organs
care;judiciousness in avoiding harm or danger. 'he exercised caution in opening the door'. 'he handled the vase with care'
system of rules;a complex of methods or rules governing behavior. 'they have to operate under a system they oppose'. 'that language has a complex system for indicating gender'
language;the mental faculty or power of vocal communication. 'language sets homo sapiens apart from all other animals'
wiliness;shrewdness as demonstrated by being skilled in deception
imaginativeness;the power of imagination. 'popular imagination created a world of demons'
muscle sense;the ability to feel movements of the limbs and body
theological system;a particular system or school of religious beliefs and teachings. 'jewish theology'. 'roman catholic theology'
shrewdness;intelligence manifested by being astute (as in business dealings)
serendipity;accidental sagacity. the faculty of making fortunate discoveries of things you were not looking for
sight;the ability to see. the faculty of vision
showmanship;the ability to present something (especially theatrical shows) in an attractive manner
doxastic logic;the modal logic of belief and disbelief
wit;mental ability. 'he's got plenty of brains but no common sense'
phantasy life;an imaginary life lived in a fantasy world
prevision;the power to foresee the future
endowment;natural qualities or talents
gustation;the faculty of taste. 'his cold deprived him of his sense of taste'
absolute pitch;the ability to identify the pitch of a tone
sapience;ability to apply knowledge or experience or understanding or common sense and insight
hearing;the ability to hear. the auditory faculty. 'his hearing was impaired'
imagination;the power of imagination. 'popular imagination created a world of demons'
epistemic logic;the modal logic of knowledge and uncertainty and ignorance
government;the system or form by which a community or other political unit is governed. 'tyrannical government'
steel trap;an acute intelligence (an analogy based on the well known sharpness of steel traps). 'he's as sharp as a steel trap'. 'a mind like a steel trap'
woolgathering;an idle indulgence in fantasy
olfactory modality;the faculty of smell
hypersensitivity;extreme sensitivity
modality;a particular sense
prudence;knowing how to avoid embarrassment or distress. 'the servants showed great tact and discretion'
horsemanship;skill in handling and riding horses
inventiveness;the power of creative imagination
auditory sense;the ability to hear. the auditory faculty. 'his hearing was impaired'
tactual sensation;the faculty of perceiving (via the skin) pressure or heat or pain
acuity;the visual ability to resolve fine detail
unconventionality;originality by virtue of being unconventional
fantasy;imagination unrestricted by reality. 'a schoolgirl fantasy'
fantasy world;a place existing solely in the imagination (but often mistaken for reality)
ear;good hearing. 'he had a keen ear'. 'a good ear for pitch'
predicate calculus;a system of symbolic logic that represents individuals and predicates and quantification over individuals (as well as the relations between propositions)
phantasy;imagination unrestricted by reality. 'a schoolgirl fantasy'
sensation;the faculty through which the external world is apprehended
discipline;a system of rules of conduct or method of practice. 'he quickly learned the discipline of prison routine' or 'for such a plan to work requires discipline'
deontic logic;the modal logic of obligation and permissibility
nose;a natural skill. 'he has a nose for good deals'
sense of movement;the ability to feel movements of the limbs and body
method;a way of doing something, esp. a systematic one. implies an orderly logical arrangement (usually in steps)
fantasy life;an imaginary life lived in a fantasy world
specialism;the concentration of your efforts on a particular field of study or occupation
hand;ability. 'he wanted to try his hand at singing'
tactility;the faculty of perceiving (via the skin) pressure or heat or pain
bag of tricks;a supply of ways of accomplishing something. 'every good mechanic has a large bag of tricks'
jealousy;zealous vigilance: 'cherish their official political freedom with fierce jealousy'-paul blanshard
touch modality;the faculty of touch. 'only sight and touch enable us to locate objects in the space around us'
intelligence;the ability to comprehend. to understand and profit from experience
nose;the sense of smell (especially in animals). 'the hound has a good nose'
modal logic;a system of logic whose formal properties resemble certain moral and epistemological concepts
sight;the range of vision. 'out of sight of land'
profoundness;the intellectual ability to penetrate deeply into ideas
will;the capability of conscious choice and decision and intention: 'the exercise of their volition we construe as revolt'- george meredith
scientific method;a method of investigation involving observation and theory to test scientific hypotheses
armoury;a collection of resources. 'he dipped into his intellectual armoryto find an answer'
slyness;shrewdness as demonstrated by being skilled in deception
reach;the limit of capability. 'within the compass of education'
perfectibility;the capability of becoming perfect. 'he believes in the ultimate perfectability of man'
sharpness;a quick and penetrating intelligence. 'he argued with great acuteness'. 'i admired the keenness of his mind'
precaution;judiciousness in avoiding harm or danger. 'he exercised caution in opening the door'. 'he handled the vase with care'
quick wittedness;intelligence as revealed by an ability to give correct responses without delay
genius;exceptional creative ability
sagacity;ability to make good judgments
artistry;the superior ability that is attained by study and practice and observation. 'he had mastered the art of a great craftsman'
vestibular sense;a sensory system located in structures of the inner ear that registers the orientation of the head
reactivity;responsive to stimulation
study;a state of deep mental absorption. 'she is in a deep study'
stereoscopy;three-dimensional vision
cunning;shrewdness in deception. 'as cunning as a fox'
honor system;a system of conduct in which participants are trusted not to take unfair advantage of others. 'the students are on the honor system'
air castle;absent-minded dreaming while awake
keenness;a quick and penetrating intelligence. 'he argued with great acuteness'. 'i admired the keenness of his mind'
defense program;a program for defending a country against its enemies
brightness;intelligence as manifested in being quick and witty
injudiciousness;lacking good judgment
science;ability to produce solutions in some problem domain. 'the skill of a well-trained boxer'. 'the science of pugilism'
aristotlean logic;the syllogistic logic of aristotle
sightedness;use of the faculty of vision
sensibility;(physiology) responsiveness to external stimuli: 'sensitivity to pain'
compass;the limit of capability. 'within the compass of education'
swordsmanship;skill in fencing
equilibrium;a sensory system located in structures of the inner ear that registers the orientation of the head
talent;natural qualities or talents
mercury program;a program of rocket-powered flights undertaken by us between 1961 and 1963 with the goal of putting a man in orbit around the earth. 'under the mercury program each flight had one astronaut'
boatmanship;skill in handling boats
craft;skill in an occupation or trade
innovativeness;originality by virtue of introducing new ideas
dreaming;imaginative thoughts indulged in while awake. 'he lives in a dream that has nothing to do with reality'
sense modality;a particular sense
common sense;sound practical judgment. 'he hasn't got the sense god gave little green apples'
training program;a program designed for training in specific skills
fruitfulness;the intellectual fruitfulness of a creative imagination
quickness;intelligence as revealed by an ability to give correct responses without delay
judiciousness;good judgment
ethical code;a system of principles governing morality and acceptable conduct
falconry;the art of training falcons to hunt and return
invention;the creation of something in the mind
acuteness;a quick and penetrating intelligence. 'he argued with great acuteness'. 'i admired the keenness of his mind'
responsiveness;responsive to stimulation
alertness;the process of paying close and continuous attention
conception;the creation of something in the mind
aptitude;inherent ability
concentration;complete attention. intense mental effort
watercraft;skill in the management of boats
discreetness;knowing how to avoid embarrassment or distress. 'the servants showed great tact and discretion'
visual sense;the ability to see. the faculty of vision
organon;a system of principles for philosophic or scientific investigations. an instrument for acquiring knowledge
sense of touch;the faculty of touch. 'only sight and touch enable us to locate objects in the space around us'
acuity;a quick and penetrating intelligence. 'he argued with great acuteness'. 'i admired the keenness of his mind'
methodology;the system of methods followed in a particular discipline
sense of hearing;the ability to hear. the auditory faculty. 'his hearing was impaired'
touch perception;the faculty of perceiving (via the skin) pressure or heat or pain
acumen;shrewdness shown by keen insight
formal logic;any logical system that abstracts the form of statements away from their content in order to establish abstract criteria of consistency and validity
resource;the ability to deal resourcefully with unusual problems. 'a man of resource'
intellect;the capacity for rational thought or inference or discrimination. 'we are told that man is endowed with reason and capable of distinguishing good from evil'
flight;passing above and beyond ordinary bounds. 'a flight of fancy'. 'flights of rhetoric'. 'flights of imagination'
fancy;fancy was held by coleridge to be more casual and superficial than imagination
space program;a technological program intended to explore outer space
balance of international payments;a system of recording all of a country's economic transactions with the rest of the world over a period of one year. 'a favorable balance of payments exists when more payments are coming in than going out'
volition;the capability of conscious choice and decision and intention: 'the exercise of their volition we construe as revolt'- george meredith
know how;the (technical) knowledge and skill required to do something
road sense;good judgment in avoiding trouble or accidents on the road
vocabulary;the system of techniques or symbols serving as a means of expression (as in arts or crafts). 'he introduced a wide vocabulary of techniques'
watchfulness;the process of paying close and continuous attention
cleverness;the power of creative imagination
comprehensiveness;an ability to understand a broad range of topics. 'a teacher must have a breadth of knowledge of the subject'
somaesthesia;the faculty of bodily perception. sensory systems associated with the body. includes skin senses and proprioception and the internal organs
interoception;sensitivity to stimuli originating inside of the body
merit system;the system of employing and promoting civil servants on the basis of ability
system;a complex of methods or rules governing behavior. 'they have to operate under a system they oppose'. 'that language has a complex system for indicating gender'
visual modality;the ability to see. the faculty of vision
dream;a fantastic but vain hope (from fantasies induced by the opium pipe). 'i have this pipe dream about being emperor of the universe'
astuteness;intelligence manifested by being astute (as in business dealings)
discretion;knowing how to avoid embarrassment or distress. 'the servants showed great tact and discretion'
kinesthesia;the ability to feel movements of the limbs and body
natural ability;ability that is inherited
seamanship;skill in sailing
excogitation;the creation of something in the mind
precocity;intelligence achieved far ahead of normal developmental schedules
inherent aptitude;inborn pattern of behavior often responsive to specific stimuli: 'the spawning instinct in salmon'. 'altruistic instincts in social animals'
audition;the ability to hear. the auditory faculty. 'his hearing was impaired'
contrivance;the faculty of contriving. inventive skill. 'his skillful contrivance of answers to every problem'
attention;the faculty or power of mental concentration. 'keeping track of all the details requires your complete attention'
precociousness;intelligence achieved far ahead of normal developmental schedules
functional calculus;a system of symbolic logic that represents individuals and predicates and quantification over individuals (as well as the relations between propositions)
gumption;sound practical judgment. 'he hasn't got the sense god gave little green apples'
sense;sound practical judgment. 'he hasn't got the sense god gave little green apples'
perspicacity;intelligence manifested by being astute (as in business dealings)
sensitiveness;(physiology) responsiveness to external stimuli: 'sensitivity to pain'
sentience;the faculty through which the external world is apprehended
labyrinthine sense;a sensory system located in structures of the inner ear that registers the orientation of the head
perspicaciousness;intelligence manifested by being astute (as in business dealings)
focussing;the concentration of attention or energy on something. 'the focus of activity shifted to molecular biology'
cleverness;intelligence as manifested in being quick and witty
somatatesthesis;the faculty of bodily perception. sensory systems associated with the body. includes skin senses and proprioception and the internal organs
instinct;inborn pattern of behavior often responsive to specific stimuli: 'the spawning instinct in salmon'. 'altruistic instincts in social animals'
mental ability;the power to learn or retain knowledge
priestcraft;the skills involved in the work of a priest
alethic logic;the modal logic of necessity and possibility and contingency
christian theology;the teachings of christian churches
visual acuity;the visual ability to resolve fine detail
boolean algebra;a system of symbolic logic devised by george boole. used in computers
resourcefulness;the ability to deal resourcefully with unusual problems. 'a man of resource'
taxidermy;the art of mounting the skins of animals so that they have lifelike appearance
fairyland;a place existing solely in the imagination (but often mistaken for reality)
system of logic;a system of reasoning
point system;a system of evaluation (in education or industry) based on awarding points according to rules
discernment;ability to make good judgments
brain;mental ability. 'he's got plenty of brains but no common sense'
symbolic logic;any logical system that abstracts the form of statements away from their content in order to establish abstract criteria of consistency and validity
innovation;the creation of something in the mind
double standard;an ethical or moral code that applies more strictly to one group than to another
smell;the faculty of smell
intellect;knowledge and intellectual ability. 'he reads to improve his mind'. 'he has a keen intellect'
fuzzy logic;a form of mathematical logic in which truth can assume a continuum of values between 0 and 1
irritability;excessive sensitivity of an organ or body part
rehabilitation program;a program for restoring someone to good health
workmanship;skill in an occupation or trade
capacity;the power to learn or retain knowledge
immunofluorescence;(immunology) a technique that uses antibodies linked to a fluorescent dye in order to study antigens in a sample of tissue
revery;absent-minded dreaming while awake
inventory;a collection of resources. 'he dipped into his intellectual armoryto find an answer'
literacy;the ability to read and write
generalship;the leadership ability of a military general
brilliance;unusual mental ability
theology;a particular system or school of religious beliefs and teachings. 'jewish theology'. 'roman catholic theology'
understanding;the capacity for rational thought or inference or discrimination. 'we are told that man is endowed with reason and capable of distinguishing good from evil'
accounting;a system that provides quantitative information about finances
castle in the air;absent-minded dreaming while awake
confidentiality;discretion in keeping secret information
ventriloquism;the art of projecting your voice so that it seems to come from another source (as from a ventriloquist's dummy)
gustatory modality;the faculty of taste. 'his cold deprived him of his sense of taste'
sense of smell;the faculty of smell
capableness;an aptitude that may be developed
jesuitry;the theology or the practices of the jesuits (often considered to be casuistic)
sensory faculty;the faculty through which the external world is apprehended
somatic sensory system;the faculty of bodily perception. sensory systems associated with the body. includes skin senses and proprioception and the internal organs
gift;natural qualities or talents
pyrotechnics;brilliance of display (as in the performance of music)
somatic sense;the faculty of bodily perception. sensory systems associated with the body. includes skin senses and proprioception and the internal organs
somesthesis;the faculty of bodily perception. sensory systems associated with the body. includes skin senses and proprioception and the internal organs
natural endowment;natural qualities or talents
homiletics;the art of preaching
genius;a natural talent. 'he has a flair for mathematics'. 'he has a genius for interior decorating'
capability;an aptitude that may be developed
exteroception;sensitivity to stimuli originating outside of the body
prescience;the power to foresee the future
cunning;shrewdness as demonstrated by being skilled in deception
skill;ability to produce solutions in some problem domain. 'the skill of a well-trained boxer'. 'the science of pugilism'
prowess;the superior ability that is attained by study and practice and observation. 'he had mastered the art of a great craftsman'
perfect pitch;the ability to identify the pitch of a tone
soldiership;skills that are required for the life of soldier
absorption;complete attention. intense mental effort
seeing;use of the faculty of vision
oarsmanship;skill as an oarsman
id;(psychoanalysis) primitive instincts and energies underlying all psychic activity
vision;the power of imagination. 'popular imagination created a world of demons'
knowingness;shrewdness demonstrated by knowledge
learning ability;mental ability. 'he's got plenty of brains but no common sense'
depth;the intellectual ability to penetrate deeply into ideas
double standard of sexual behavior;a code that permits greater sexual freedom for men than for women (associated with the subordination of women)
armory;a collection of resources. 'he dipped into his intellectual armoryto find an answer'
cutaneous senses;the faculty of touch. 'only sight and touch enable us to locate objects in the space around us'
soldiering;skills that are required for the life of soldier
eyesight;use of the faculty of vision
skin perceptiveness;the faculty of perceiving (via the skin) pressure or heat or pain
circumspection;knowing how to avoid embarrassment or distress. 'the servants showed great tact and discretion'
mind;knowledge and intellectual ability. 'he reads to improve his mind'. 'he has a keen intellect'
forethought;judiciousness in avoiding harm or danger. 'he exercised caution in opening the door'. 'he handled the vase with care'
sharp sightedness;the visual ability to resolve fine detail
retentiveness;the power of retaining and recalling past experience. 'he had a good memory when he was younger'
method of choice;the best method to achieve a desired result
academic program;a program of education in liberal arts and sciences (usually in preparation for higher education)
profundity;the intellectual ability to penetrate deeply into ideas
defence policy;a program for defending a country against its enemies
insightfulness;shrewdness shown by keen insight
virtuosity;technical skill or fluency or style exhibited by a virtuoso
kinesthesia;the perception of body position and movement and muscular tensions etc
balance of payments;a system of recording all of a country's economic transactions with the rest of the world over a period of one year. 'a favorable balance of payments exists when more payments are coming in than going out'
bertillon system;"a system or procedure for identifying persons"
photosensitivity;sensitivity to the action of radiant energy
propositional logic;a branch of symbolic logic dealing with propositions as units and with their combinations and the connectives that relate them
kinesthetics;the ability to feel movements of the limbs and body
creativity;the ability to create
enology;the art of wine making
good sense;sound practical judgment. 'he hasn't got the sense god gave little green apples'
horse sense;sound practical judgment. 'he hasn't got the sense god gave little green apples'
centering;the concentration of attention or energy on something. 'the focus of activity shifted to molecular biology'
faculty;one of the inherent cognitive or perceptual powers of the mind
ethic;a system of principles governing morality and acceptable conduct
taste;the faculty of taste. 'his cold deprived him of his sense of taste'
maieutic method;a method of teaching by question and answer. used by socrates to elicit truths from his students
novelty;originality by virtue of being new and surprising
potentiality;an aptitude that may be developed
teaching method;a method of instruction
musicianship;artistry in performing music
mental capacity;mental ability. 'he's got plenty of brains but no common sense'
retention;the power of retaining and recalling past experience. 'he had a good memory when he was younger'
defence program;a program for defending a country against its enemies
mathematical logic;any logical system that abstracts the form of statements away from their content in order to establish abstract criteria of consistency and validity
craftiness;shrewdness as demonstrated by being skilled in deception
originality;the ability to think and act independently
perfectability;the capability of becoming perfect. 'he believes in the ultimate perfectability of man'
art;the superior ability that is attained by study and practice and observation. 'he had mastered the art of a great craftsman'
sense;the faculty through which the external world is apprehended
caution;judiciousness in avoiding harm or danger. 'he exercised caution in opening the door'. 'he handled the vase with care'
kinaesthesia;the perception of body position and movement and muscular tensions etc
ingenuity;the power of creative imagination
jesuitism;the theology or the practices of the jesuits (often considered to be casuistic)
sense of taste;the faculty of taste. 'his cold deprived him of his sense of taste'
engrossment;complete attention. intense mental effort
eye;good discernment (either with the eyes or as if with the eyes). 'she has an eye for fresh talent'. 'he has an artist's eye'
mnemonics;a method or system for improving the memory
horology;the art of designing and making clocks
marksmanship;skill in shooting
technique;a practical method or art applied to some particular task
velleity;volition in its weakest form
bonding;(dentistry) a technique for repairing a tooth. resinous material is applied to the surface of the tooth where it adheres to the tooth's enamel
airmanship;the art of flying airplane
touch;the faculty of touch. 'only sight and touch enable us to locate objects in the space around us'
genius;unusual mental ability
dream;imaginative thoughts indulged in while awake. 'he lives in a dream that has nothing to do with reality'
radiosensitivity;sensitivity to the action of radiant energy
wizardry;exceptional creative ability
skin senses;the faculty of touch. 'only sight and touch enable us to locate objects in the space around us'
sense of balance;a sensory system located in structures of the inner ear that registers the orientation of the head
ability;"possession of the qualities (especially mental qualities) required to do something or get something done. 'danger heightened his powers of discrimination'"
frame of reference;a system of assumptions and standards that sanction behavior and give it meaning
sentiency;the faculty through which the external world is apprehended
spoils system;the system of employing and promoting civil servants who are friends and supporters of the group in power
propositional calculus;a branch of symbolic logic dealing with propositions as units and with their combinations and the connectives that relate them
verbal intelligence;intelligence in the use and comprehension of language
somatesthesia;the faculty of bodily perception. sensory systems associated with the body. includes skin senses and proprioception and the internal organs
experimental method;the use of controlled observations and measurements to test hypotheses
craftsmanship;skill in an occupation or trade
auditory modality;the ability to hear. the auditory faculty. 'his hearing was impaired'
tradecraft;skill acquired through experience in a trade. 'instructional designers are trained in something that might be called tradecraft'. often used to discuss skill in espionage. 'the cia chief of station accepted responsibility for his agents' failures of tradecraft'
range;the limit of capability. 'within the compass of education'
reason;the capacity for rational thought or inference or discrimination. 'we are told that man is endowed with reason and capable of distinguishing good from evil'
vocational rehabilitation program;a program of rehabilitation through job training with an eye to gainful employment
minstrelsy;the art of a minstrel
mentality;mental ability. 'he's got plenty of brains but no common sense'
educational program;a program for providing education
boolean logic;a system of symbolic logic devised by george boole. used in computers
defense policy;a program for defending a country against its enemies
focusing;the concentration of attention or energy on something. 'the focus of activity shifted to molecular biology'
program;a system of projects or services intended to meet a public need. 'he proposed an elaborate program of public works'. 'working mothers rely on the day care program'
kinaesthesia;the ability to feel movements of the limbs and body
power;"possession of the qualities (especially mental qualities) required to do something or get something done. 'danger heightened his powers of discrimination'"
daydream;absent-minded dreaming while awake
mental quickness;intelligence as revealed by an ability to give correct responses without delay
raw talent;powerfully impressive talent
solution;a method for solving a problem. 'the easy solution is to look it up in the handbook'
kinesthesis;the ability to feel movements of the limbs and body
design;the creation of something in the mind
oenology;the art of wine making
tax program;a program for setting taxes
skill;an ability that has been acquired by training
logic;a system of reasoning
phantasy world;a place existing solely in the imagination (but often mistaken for reality)
socratic method;a method of teaching by question and answer. used by socrates to elicit truths from his students
benday process;a photoengraving technique for adding shading or texture or tone to a printed image
sense of equilibrium;a sensory system located in structures of the inner ear that registers the orientation of the head
freshness;originality by virtue of being new and surprising
vision;the ability to see. the faculty of vision
acquirement;an ability that has been acquired by training
night sight;the ability to see in reduced illumination (as in moonlight)
judgement;ability to make good judgments
leadership;the ability to lead: 'he believed that leadership can be taught'
gemini program;a program of space flights undertaken by us in 1965 and 1966. 'under the gemini program each crew had two astronauts'
works program;a program to provide jobs on public works paid for by government funds
ventriloquy;the art of projecting your voice so that it seems to come from another source (as from a ventriloquist's dummy)
knack;a special way of doing something. 'he had a bent for it'. 'he had a special knack for getting into trouble'. 'he couldn't get the hang of it'
natural theology;a theology that holds that knowledge of god can be acquired by human reason without the aid of divine revelation
ingeniousness;the power of creative imagination
gambling system;a system of rules for placing bets that is believed to lead to winning. 'he has a perfect gambling system at roulette'
olfaction;the faculty of smell
programme;a system of projects or services intended to meet a public need. 'he proposed an elaborate program of public works'. 'working mothers rely on the day care program'
creativeness;the ability to create
housecraft;skill in domestic management
somaesthesis;the faculty of bodily perception. sensory systems associated with the body. includes skin senses and proprioception and the internal organs
grasp;the limit of capability. 'within the compass of education'
smartness;intelligence as manifested in being quick and witty
feeling of movement;the perception of body position and movement and muscular tensions etc
bent;a special way of doing something. 'he had a bent for it'. 'he had a special knack for getting into trouble'. 'he couldn't get the hang of it'
sensitivity;(physiology) responsiveness to external stimuli: 'sensitivity to pain'
vocational program;a program of vocational education
logical system;a system of reasoning
speech;the mental faculty or power of vocal communication. 'language sets homo sapiens apart from all other animals'
somatosense;any of the sensory systems that mediate sensations of pressure and tickle and warmth and cold and vibration and limb position and limb movement and pain
judgment;ability to make good judgments
accomplishment;an ability that has been acquired by training
craft;shrewdness as demonstrated by being skilled in deception
preemployment training program;a training program to prepare you for employment
reverie;absent-minded dreaming while awake
nous;(british) common sense. 'she has great social nous'
puppetry;the art of making puppets and presenting puppet shows
focus;the concentration of attention or energy on something. 'the focus of activity shifted to molecular biology'
tax policy;a program for setting taxes
