ash wednesday;the 7th wednesday before easter. the first day of lent. the day following mardi gras ('fat tuesday'). a day of fasting and repentance
moment;a particular point in time. 'the moment he arrived the party began'
rosh chodesh;the beginning of each month in the jewish calendar. marked by a special liturgy
december;the last (12th) month of the year
pennsylvanian;from 280 million to 310 million years ago. warm climate. swampy land
summer solstice;june 21, when the sun is at its northernmost point
work time;a time period when you are required to work
michaelmas day;honoring the archangel michael. a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
washing day;a day set aside for doing household laundry
half life;the time required for something to fall to half its initial value (in particular, the time for half the atoms in a radioactive substance to disintegrate)
silly season;a time usually late summer characterized by exaggerated news stories about frivolous matters for want of real news
mid june;the middle part of june
thirties;the time of life between 30 and 40
permian;from 230 million to 280 million years ago. reptiles
school year;the period of time each year when the school is open and people are studying
half century;50 years
trick;a period of work or duty
birthday;celebrated in southern united states
lunar time period;there are usually two high and two low tides each day
end;the point in time at which something ends. 'the end of the year'. 'the ending of warranty period'
reign;the period during which a monarch is sovereign. 'during the reign of henry viii'
columbus day;a legal holiday commemorating the discovery of america by christopher columbus
incipiency;beginning to exist or to be apparent. 'he placed the incipience of democratic faith at around 1850'. 'it is designed to arrest monopolies in their incipiency'
american indian day;us: the 4th friday in september
365 days;a year that is not a leap year
saint s day;a day commemorating a saint
ab;the eleventh month of the civil year. the fifth month of the ecclesiastical year in the jewish calendar (in july and august)
rabi ii;the fourth month of the moslem calendar
upbeat;an unaccented beat (especially the last beat of a measure)
archeozoic era;the time from 1.5 billion to 5 billion years ago. earth's crust formed. unicellular organisms are earliest forms of life
missippian period;from 310 million to 345 million years ago. increase of land areas. primitive ammonites. winged insects
mid thirties;the time of life between 30 and 40
latency phase;(psychoanalysis) the period from about age 5 or 6 until puberty during which sexual interests are supposed to be sublimated into other activities
hockey season;the season when hockey is played
february;the month following january and preceding march
wed;the fourth day of the week. the third working day
festival;a day or period of time set aside for feasting and celebration
noel;period extending from dec. 24 to jan. 6
continuance;the period of time during which something continues
finis;the concluding time. 'he awaited the grand finale'. 'he stayed until the finish'. 'he left before the conclusion'
midsummer night;the night before midsummer_day
prohibition era;the period from 1920 to 1933 when the sale of alcoholic beverages was prohibited in the united states by a constitutional amendment
midsummer;june 21, when the sun is at its northernmost point
rtlt;the elapsed time it takes for a signal to travel from earth to a spacecraft (or other body) and back to the starting point
administration;the tenure of a president. 'things were quiet during the eisenhower administration'
lifetime;the period during which something is functional (as between birth and death). 'the battery had a short life'. 'he lived a long and happy life'
time off;a time period when you are not required to work. 'he requested time off to attend his grandmother's funeral'
st joseph;a christian holy day
robert e lee s birthday;celebrated in southern united states
terminus;the concluding time. 'he awaited the grand finale'. 'he stayed until the finish'. 'he left before the conclusion'
pinpoint;a very brief moment. 'they were strangers sharing a pinpoint of time together'
bachelorhood;the time of a man's life prior to marriage
ordovician;from 425 million to 500 million years ago. conodonts and ostracods and algae and seaweeds
ascension day;the 40th day after easter. celebrates the ascension of christ into heaven
church festival;a festival having religious significance
walpurgis night;eve of may day
last judgement;(new testament) day of the last judgment when god will decree the fates of all men according to the good and evil of their earthly lives
anal stage;(psychoanalysis) the second sexual and social stage of a child's development during which bowel control is learned
stint;an unbroken period of time during which you do something. 'there were stretches of boredom'. 'he did a stretch in the federal penitentiary'
ut;the local time at the 0 meridian passing through greenwich, england. it is the same everywhere
miocene epoch;from 13 million to 25 million years ago. appearance of grazing mammals
musical time;the beat of musical rhythm
evening;a later concluding time period. 'it was the evening of the roman empire'
october;a day for celebrating the founding of the united nations
thammuz;the tenth month of the civil year. the fourth month of the ecclesiastic year (in june and july)
ventose;sixth month of the revolutionary calendar (feb-mar). the windy month
martin luther king jr s birthday;observed on the monday closest to january 15
weekend;usually friday night through sunday
shabuoth;jewish holy day celebrated on the sixth of sivan to celebrate moses receiving the ten commandments
shebat;the fifth month of the civil year: the eleventh month of the ecclesiastical year in the jewish calendar (in january and february)
christian era;the time period beginning with the year of christ's birth
high holy day;jewish holy days observed with particular solemnity
holy thursday;the thursday before easter. commemorates the last supper
texas independence day;texans celebrate the anniversary of texas' declaration of independence from mexico in 1836
nivose;fourth month of the revolutionary calendar (dec-jan). the snowy month
offing;the near or foreseeable future. 'there was a wedding in the offing'
oral phase;(psychoanalysis) the first sexual and social stage of an infant's development. the mouth is the focus of the libido and satisfaction comes from suckling and chewing and biting
mesozoic;from 63 million to 230 million years ago
all saints;a christian feast day honoring all the saints. first observed in 835
march;texans celebrate the anniversary of texas' declaration of independence from mexico in 1836
recent epoch;approximately the last 10,000 years
forties;the decade from 1940 to 1949
dotage;mental infirmity as a consequence of old age. sometimes shown by foolish infatuations
asarh;the fourth month of the hindu calendar
local time;the official time in a local region (adjusted for location around the earth). established by law or custom
day off;a day when you are not required to work. 'thursday is his day off'
sep;the month following august and preceding october
july;a legal holiday in france
day;the time for one complete rotation of the earth relative to a particular star, about 4 minutes shorter than a mean solar day
veterans;us: formerly armistice day. called veterans day since 1954
deathbed;the last few hours before death
hard times;a time of difficulty
sha ban;the eighth month of the moslem calendar
trice;a very short time. 'if i had the chance i'd do it in a flash'
february;(us) the day on which president abraham lincoln is remembered
terminus ad quem;final or latest limiting point
mid eighties;the time of life between 80 and 90
holy day of obligation;a day when catholics must attend mass and refrain from servile work, and episcopalians must take communion
tail;the time of the last part of something. 'the fag end of this crisis-ridden century'. 'the tail of the storm'
cosmic time;the time covered by the physical formation and development of the universe
infancy;the early stage of growth or development
off day;a day when things go poorly. 'i guess this is one of my off-days'
time immemorial;the distant past beyond memory
allegretto;a quicker tempo than andante but not as fast as allegro
eternity;time without end
epiphany of our lord;twelve days after christmas. celebrates the visit of the three wise men to the infant jesus
old;past times (especially in the phrase 'in days of old')
feb;the month following january and preceding march
circadian rhythm;a daily cycle of activity observed in many living organisms
wedding night;the night after the wedding when bride and groom sleep together
tail end;the time of the last part of something. 'the fag end of this crisis-ridden century'. 'the tail of the storm'
four four time;a time signature indicating four beats to the bar
era;a major division of geological time. an era is divided into two or more periods
finish;the concluding time. 'he awaited the grand finale'. 'he stayed until the finish'. 'he left before the conclusion'
june;first celebrated in the 3rd century
hours;an indefinite period of time. 'they talked for hours'
watch;a period of time (4 or 2 hours) during which some of a ship's crew are on duty
leap year;in the gregorian calendar: any year divisible by 4 except centenary years not divisible by 400
full moon;the time when the moon is fully illuminated
conclusion;the concluding time. 'he awaited the grand finale'. 'he stayed until the finish'. 'he left before the conclusion'
whitsunday;seventh sunday after easter. commemorates the descent of the holy spirit on the apostles. a quarter day in scotland
june;june 21, when the sun is at its northernmost point
jurassic period;from 135 million to 190 million years ago. dinosaurs. conifers
greenwich mean time;the local time at the 0 meridian passing through greenwich, england. it is the same everywhere
veadar;included seven times in every 19 years
puberty;the time of life when sex glands become functional
seventies;the time of life between 70 and 80
eon;the longest division of geological time. two or more eras
historic period;an era of history having some distinctive feature
alaska hawaii time;time of the 150th meridian, used in hawaii and most of alaska
fast of av;a jewish fast day commemorating the destruction of the temples in jerusalem
triple crown season;a season of baseball during which a player wins the triple crown
bronze age;(archeology) a period between the stone and iron ages, characterized by the manufacture and use of bronze tools and weapons
quincentenary;the 500th anniversary
christmastide;period extending from dec. 24 to jan. 6
v day;the day of a victory
life;the period between birth and the present time. 'i have known him all his life'
while;a period of indeterminate length (usually short) marked by some action or condition. 'he was here for a little while'. 'i need to rest for a piece'. 'a spell of good weather'
climacteric;a period in a man's life corresponding to menopause
christmas;period extending from dec. 24 to jan. 6
saint agnes s eve;a christian holy day
independence day;a legal holiday in the united states
financial year;any accounting period of 12 months
atlantic time;time of the 60th meridian, used in puerto rico, the virgin islands, bermuda, and the eastern edge of canada
eighties;the time of life between 80 and 90
spare time;to that is free for leisure activities
pliocene epoch;from 2 million to 13 million years ago. growth of mountains. cooling of climate. more and larger mammals
period of time;an indefinite length of time. 'a time period of 30 years'. 'hastened the period of his recovery'
archeozoic;the time from 1.5 billion to 5 billion years ago. earth's crust formed. unicellular organisms are earliest forms of life
continuance;the property of enduring or continuing in time
asin;the seventh month of the hindu calendar
feb;a quarter day in scotland
latency stage;(psychoanalysis) the period from about age 5 or 6 until puberty during which sexual interests are supposed to be sublimated into other activities
boxing day;(british) first weekday after christmas
leave;the period of time during which you are absent from work or duty. 'a ten day's leave to visit his mother'
liberty;leave granted to a sailor or naval officer
daylight saving;time during which clocks are set one hour ahead of local standard time. widely adopted during summer to provide extra daylight in the evenings
month of sundays;(informal) a time perceived as long. 'i hadn't seen him in a month of sundays'
midsummer s day;a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
tenure;the term during which some position is held
lammas day;commemorates saint peter's miraculous deliverance from prison. a quarter day in scotland. a harvest festival in england
march;a day observed by the irish to commemorate the patron saint of ireland
rejoicing in the law;a jewish holy day celebrated on the 22nd or 23rd of tishri to celebrate the completion of the annual cycle of readings of the torah
election day;the day appointed for an election. in the united states it is the 1st tuesday after the 1st monday in november
monday;the second day of the week. the first working daythe second day of the week. the first working day
hour;a special and memorable period. 'it was their finest hour'
playday;time for play or diversion
hebdomad;any period of seven consecutive days. 'it rained for a week'
8 may;the date of allied victory in europe, world war ii
tishah b av;a jewish fast day commemorating the destruction of the temples in jerusalem
chislev;the third month of the civil year. the ninth month of the ecclesiastical year in the jewish calendar (in november and december)
january;celebrated in southern united states
may;british, anniversary of queen victoria's birth
playtime;time for play or diversion
biological time;the time of various biological processes
expiration;a coming to an end of a contract period. 'the expiry of his driver's license'
tonight;the present or immediately coming night
nisan;the seventh month of the civil year. the first month of the ecclesiastic year (in march and april)
pubescence;the time of life when sex glands become functional
cambrian;from 500 million to 600 million years ago. marine invertebrates
year;the period of time that it takes for a planet (as, e.g., earth or mars) to make a complete revolution around the sun. 'a martian year takes 687 of our days'
cradle;birth of a person. 'he was taught from the cradle never to cry'
anal phase;(psychoanalysis) the second sexual and social stage of a child's development during which bowel control is learned
tercentennial;the 300th anniversary
tammuz;the tenth month of the civil year. the fourth month of the ecclesiastic year (in june and july)
nov;the month following october and preceding december
holiday;a day on which work is suspended by law or custom
geologic time;the time of the physical formation and development of the earth (especially prior to human history)
annunciation day;a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
apr;the month following march and preceding may
baseball season;the season when baseball is played
sun;first day of the week. observed as a day of rest and worship by most christians
precambrian;the time before 600 million years ago
jiffy;a very short time. 'if i had the chance i'd do it in a flash'
tisha b ab;a jewish fast day commemorating the destruction of the temples in jerusalem
mid march;the middle part of march
iron age;(classical mythology) the last and worst age of the world
quarter day;a christian holy day. (britain) one of four specified days when certain payments are due
phagun;the twelfth month of the hindu calendar
sudden death;overtime in which play is stopped as soon as one contestant scores. e.g. football and golf
elizabethan age;a period in british history during the reign of queen elizabeth i in the 16th century. an age marked by literary achievement and domestic prosperity
carboniferous period;from 280 million to 345 million years ago
june;celebrated in southern united states
time being;the present occasion. 'for the nonce'
present;any continuous stretch of time including the moment of speech. 'that is enough for the present'. 'he lives in the present with no thought of tomorrow'
leisure time;time available for ease and relaxation. 'his job left him little leisure'
instant;a particular point in time. 'the moment he arrived the party began'
feria;a weekday on which no feast is celebrated
technological revolution;the transformation from an agricultural to an industrial nation
hogmanay;new year's eve in scotland
workday;a day on which work is done
vacation;leisure time away from work. devoted to rest or pleasure
historical period;a stage in the history of a culture having a definable place in space and time. 'a novel from the victorian period'
olympiad;one of the 4-year intervals between olympic games. used to reckon time in ancient greece beginning in 776 bc
triennial;the 300th anniversary
date of reference;(astronomy) the precise date that is the point of reference for which information (as coordinates of a celestial body) is referred
march equinox;march 21
january;twelve days after christmas. celebrates the visit of the three wise men to the infant jesus
period;an indefinite length of time. 'a time period of 30 years'. 'hastened the period of his recovery'
twelfthtide;the season of epiphany
day;a day assigned to a particular purpose or observance. 'mother's day'
jewish holy day;a religious holiday for jews
christmas eve;the day before christmas
morning time;the time period between dawn and noon. 'i spent the morning running errands'
rabi i;the third month of the moslem calendar
hitch;a period of time spent in military service
kartik;the eighth month of the hindu calendar
tour;a period of time spent in military service
death;the time when something ends. 'it was the death of all his plans'. 'a dying of old hopes'
first quarter;the first fourth of the moon's period of revolution around the earth
lustrum;a period of five years
saturday;the seventh and last day of the week. the jewish sabbath
flower;the period of greatest prosperity or productivity
quaternary period;last 2 million years
expiry;a coming to an end of a contract period. 'the expiry of his driver's license'
term of a contract;the period of time during which a contract conveying property to a person is in effect
national holiday;authorized by law and limiting work or official business
floreal;eighth month of the revolutionary calendar (apr-may). the month of flowers
oral stage;(psychoanalysis) the first sexual and social stage of an infant's development. the mouth is the focus of the libido and satisfaction comes from suckling and chewing and biting
simhath torah;a jewish holy day celebrated on the 22nd or 23rd of tishri to celebrate the completion of the annual cycle of readings of the torah
legal age;the age at which a person is considered competent to manage their own affairs
triassic period;from 190 million to 230 million years ago. dinosaurs, marine reptiles. volcanic activity
field day;a time of unusual pleasure and success
baisakh;the second month of the hindu calendar
thursday;the fifth day of the week. the fourth working day
oct;the month following september and preceding november
centenary;the 100th anniversary
instant;a very short time. 'if i had the chance i'd do it in a flash'
fishing season;the season during which it is legal to catch fish
minute;a particular point in time. 'the moment he arrived the party began'
platonic year;time required for one complete cycle of the precession of the equinoxes, about 25,800 years
industrial revolution;the transformation from an agricultural to an industrial nation
halloween;the evening before all saints' day. often devoted to pranks played by young people
time;the period of time a prisoner is imprisoned. 'he served a prison term of 15 months'. 'his sentence was 5 to 10 years'. 'he is doing time in the county jail'
history;the continuum of events occurring in succession leading from the past to the present and even into the future: 'all of human history'
robert e lee day;celebrated in southern united states
year;a period of time containing 365 (or 366) days. 'she is 4 years old'
antiquity;the historic period preceding the middle ages in europe
jefferson davis;celebrated in southern united states
sat;the seventh and last day of the week. the jewish sabbath
fast day;a day designated for fasting
turn of the century;the period from about 1890 to 1910
second;a particular point in time. 'the moment he arrived the party began'
haying time;the season for cutting and drying and storing grass as fodder
mid forties;the time of life between 40 and 50
shevat;the fifth month of the civil year: the eleventh month of the ecclesiastical year in the jewish calendar (in january and february)
paleozoic era;from 230 million to 600 million years ago
period;a unit of geological time during which a system of rocks formed. 'ganoid fishes swarmed during the earlier geological periods'
holy day;a day specified for religious observance
whitsun;christian holiday. the week beginning on whitsunday (especially the first 3 days)
pesah;a jewish festival (traditionally 8 days) celebrating the exodus of the israelites from egypt
bloom;the period of greatest prosperity or productivity
allhallowtide;the season of all saints' day
september;celebrated in the united states
field day;a day devoted to an outdoor social gathering
shelf life;the length of time a packaged food or drug will last without deteriorating
flag day;commemorating the adoption of the u.s. flag in 1777
noviciate;the period during which you are a novice (especially in a religious order)
night shift;the work shift during the night (as midnight to 8 a.m.)
years;the time during which someone's life continues. 'the monarch's last days'. 'in his final years'
mississippian;from 310 million to 345 million years ago. increase of land areas. primitive ammonites. winged insects
judgement day;(new testament) day of the last judgment when god will decree the fates of all men according to the good and evil of their earthly lives
midsummer day;a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
whitmonday;the day after whitsunday. a legal holiday in england and wales and ireland
andante;a moderately slow tempo (a walking pace)
oligocene;from 25 million to 40 million years ago. appearance of sabertoothed cats
all souls;a day of supplication for all the souls in purgatory
adolescence;the time of life between puberty and adulthood
shavous;jewish holy day celebrated on the sixth of sivan to celebrate moses receiving the ten commandments
yesterday;the recent past. 'yesterday's solutions are not good enough'. 'we shared many yesterdays'
girlhood;the childhood of a girl
central time;time of the 90th meridian, used in the central u.s.
eastern time;time of the 75th meridian, fifth time zone west of greenwich, used in the eastern u.s.
equinoctial year;the time for the earth to make one revolution around the sun, measured between two vernal equinoxes
civil day;a day reckoned from midnight to midnight
bimester;a period of 2 months
term;the end of gestation or point at which birth is imminent. 'a healthy baby born at full term'
phase angle;a particular point in the time of a cycle. measured from some arbitrary zero and expressed as an angle
contemporary world;the circumstances and ideas of the present age. 'behind the times'. 'in times like these'
yesteryear;the time that has elapsed. 'forget the past'
decennium;a period of 10 years
mesozoic era;from 63 million to 230 million years ago
holy week;the week before easter
day;the period of time taken by a particular planet (e.g. mars) to make a complete rotation on its axis. 'how long is a day on jupiter?'
th;the fifth day of the week. the fourth working day
reconstruction;the period after the united states civil war when the southern states were reorganized and reintegrated into the union. 1865-1877
pentecost;jewish holy day celebrated on the sixth of sivan to celebrate moses receiving the ten commandments
festival of lights;an eight-day jewish holiday commemorating the rededication of the temple of jerusalem
pacing;the speed at which a composition is to be played
366 days;in the gregorian calendar: any year divisible by 4 except centenary years not divisible by 400
wee;(scottish) a short time. 'bide a wee'
langsyne;past times remembered with nostalgia
beginning;the time at which something begins. 'they got an early start'
united nations day;a day for celebrating the founding of the united nations
date;the present. 'they are up to date'. 'we haven't heard from them to date'
christmastime;period extending from dec. 24 to jan. 6
harvest time;the season for gathering crops
turnaround;time need to prepare a vessel or ship for a return trip
lady day;a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
new phase of the moon;the time at which the moon appears as a narrow waxing crescent
transmission time;the universal time coordinated time when a transmission is sent from earth to a spacecraft or other celestial body
st patrick s day;a day observed by the irish to commemorate the patron saint of ireland
schooltime;the time of life when you are going to school
term of enlistment;a period of time spent in military service
june;a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
doomsday;(new testament) day of the last judgment when god will decree the fates of all men according to the good and evil of their earthly lives
eocene;from 40 million to 58 million years ago. presence of modern mammals
pst;time of the 120th meridian, used in far western states of the u.s.
hunting season;the season during which it is legal to kill a particular species
trimester;one of three divisions of an academic year
rogation day;one of the three days before ascension day. observed by some christians as days of supplication
close;the concluding time. 'he awaited the grand finale'. 'he stayed until the finish'. 'he left before the conclusion'
empire day;british, anniversary of queen victoria's birth
winter;the coldest season of the year
trinity sunday;eighth sunday after easter
turnaround time;time need to prepare a vessel or ship for a return trip
here and now;at this time. 'the disappointments of the here and now'. 'she is studying at the moment'
summer;the warmest season of the year. 'they spent a lazy summer at the shore'
fri;the sixth day of the week. the fifth working day
dec;the last (12th) month of the year
past;the time that has elapsed. 'forget the past'
hereafter;life after death
stopping point;the concluding time. 'he awaited the grand finale'. 'he stayed until the finish'. 'he left before the conclusion'
shivah;(judaism) a period of seven days of mourning after the death of close relative. 'the family is sitting shiva'
change of life;the time in a woman's life in which the menstrual cycle ends
prairial;ninth month of the revolutionary calendar (may-june). the month of meadows
fructidor;twelfth month of the revolutionary calendar (aug-sept). the month of fruit
day of judgment;(new testament) day of the last judgment when god will decree the fates of all men according to the good and evil of their earthly lives
semester;half a year. a period of 6 months
passion sunday;second sunday before easter
midsummer eve;the night before midsummer_day
twelvemonth;a period of time containing 365 (or 366) days. 'she is 4 years old'
august;the month following july and preceding september
trimester;a period of three months
lammas;commemorates saint peter's miraculous deliverance from prison. a quarter day in scotland. a harvest festival in england
distance;a remote point in time. 'if that happens it will be at some distance in the future'. 'at a distance of ten years he had forgotten many of the details'
silurian period;from 405 million to 425 million years ago. first air-breathing animals
canicular days;the hot period between early july and early september. a period of inactivity
presidential term;the tenure of a president. 'things were quiet during the eisenhower administration'
outing;a day devoted to an outdoor social gathering
golden wedding anniversary;the 50th wedding anniversary
xmas;a christian holiday celebrating the birth of christ. a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
phase;a particular point in the time of a cycle. measured from some arbitrary zero and expressed as an angle
last;the concluding time. 'he awaited the grand finale'. 'he stayed until the finish'. 'he left before the conclusion'
historic period;a stage in the history of a culture having a definable place in space and time. 'a novel from the victorian period'
spell;a period of indeterminate length (usually short) marked by some action or condition. 'he was here for a little while'. 'i need to rest for a piece'. 'a spell of good weather'
regulation time;(sports) the normal prescribed duration of a game. 'the game was finished in regulation time'
free time;time when you are free to do things that you enjoy
day of the week;any one of the seven days in a week
curfew;the time that the curfew signal is sounded
yr;a period of time containing 365 (or 366) days. 'she is 4 years old'
year of grace;any year of the christian era
genital phase;(psychoanalysis) the third sexual and social stage in a child's development. sexual interest focuses on the child's own sex organs and those of others
pliocene;from 2 million to 13 million years ago. growth of mountains. cooling of climate. more and larger mammals
school;the period of instruction in a school. 'stay after school' or 'he didn't miss a single day of school'
whitsun monday;the day after whitsunday. a legal holiday in england and wales and ireland
half moon;the time at which the moon is at first or last quarter when half its face is illuminated
quincentennial;the 500th anniversary
period;the end or completion of something. 'death put a period to his endeavors'. 'a change soon put a period to my tranquility'
november;us: formerly armistice day. called veterans day since 1954
wink;a very short time. 'if i had the chance i'd do it in a flash'
december;the last day of the year
january;the day designated for inauguration of the u.s. president
wedding anniversary;the anniversary of the day on which you were married
tevet;the fourth month of the civil year. the tenth month of the ecclesiastical year (in december and january)
space age;the age beginning with the first space travel. from 1957 to the present
syncopation;a musical rhythm accenting a weak beat
rejoicing of the law;a jewish holy day celebrated on the 22nd or 23rd of tishri to celebrate the completion of the annual cycle of readings of the torah
middle age;the time of life between youth and old age (e.g., between 40 and 60 years of age)
magh;the eleventh month of the hindu calendar
bimillenary;a span of 2000 years
yuletide;period extending from dec. 24 to jan. 6
old age;time of life. 'he's showing his years'. 'age hasn't slowed him down at all'
prime;the period of greatest prosperity or productivity
dawn;an opening time period. 'it was the dawn of the roman empire'
legal holiday;authorized by law and limiting work or official business
forenoon;the time period between dawn and noon. 'i spent the morning running errands'
twelfth day;twelve days after christmas. celebrates the visit of the three wise men to the infant jesus
commonwealth day;british, anniversary of queen victoria's birth
dominion day;(canada) a legal holiday commemorating receiving dominion status in 1867
shift;the time period during which you are at work
long run;a period of time sufficient for factors to work themselves out. 'in the long run we will win' or 'he performed well over the long haul'
long;a comparatively long time. 'this won't take long'. 'they haven't been gone long'
jeth;the third month of the hindu calendar
sukkoth;a jewish harvest festival
sept;the month following august and preceding october
workday;the amount of time that a worker must work for an agreed daily wage. 'they work an 8-hour day'
religious festival;a festival having religious significance
fall;the season when the leaves fall from the trees. 'in the fall of 1973'
latency period;(psychoanalysis) the period from about age 5 or 6 until puberty during which sexual interests are supposed to be sublimated into other activities
utc;greenwich mean time updated with leap seconds
cretaceous;from 63 million to 135 million years ago. end of the age of reptiles. appearance of modern insects and flowering plants
sick leave;a leave of absence from work because of illness
reign;a period during which something or somebody is dominant or powerful. 'he was helpless under the reign of his egotism'
harvest;the season for gathering crops
autumnal equinox;september 22
second childhood;mental infirmity as a consequence of old age. sometimes shown by foolish infatuations
holocene;approximately the last 10,000 years
stone age;(archeology) the earliest known period of human culture, characterized by the use of stone implements
tour;a time for working (after which you will be relieved by someone else). 'it's my go'. 'a spell of work'
september;honoring the archangel michael. a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
january;the first month of the year. begins 10 days after the winter solstice
clotting time;the time it takes for a sample of blood to clot. used to diagnose some clotting disorders
adar sheni;included seven times in every 19 years
harvest moon;the full moon nearest the september equinox
groundhog day;(us) if the ground hog emerges and sees his shadow there will be 6 more weeks of winter
discovery day;a legal holiday commemorating the discovery of america by christopher columbus
prohibition;the period from 1920 to 1933 when the sale of alcoholic beverages was prohibited in the united states by a constitutional amendment
rule;the duration of a monarch's or government's power. 'during the rule of elizabeth'
geological period;a unit of geological time during which a system of rocks formed. 'ganoid fishes swarmed during the earlier geological periods'
advent;the season including the four sundays preceding christmas
fortnight;a period of fourteen consecutive days. 'most major tennis tournaments last a fortnight'
saint martin s summer;a period of unusually warm weather in the autumn
shibah;(judaism) a period of seven days of mourning after the death of close relative. 'the family is sitting shiva'
jewish calendar month;a month in the jewish calendar
epoch;a period marked by distinctive character or reckoned from a fixed point or event
blink of an eye;a very short time. 'if i had the chance i'd do it in a flash'
daylight saving time;time during which clocks are set one hour ahead of local standard time. widely adopted during summer to provide extra daylight in the evenings
ending;the point in time at which something ends. 'the end of the year'. 'the ending of warranty period'
preoterozoic era;from 600 million to 1.5 billion years ago. bacteria and fungi. primitive multicellular organisms
sivan;the ninth month of the civil year. the third month of the ecclesiastical year in the jewish calendar (in may and june)
monsoon;season in s asia when the sw monsoon blows, bringing heavy rains
night watch;a watch during the night (as from midnight to 8 a.m.)
occasion;the time of a particular event. 'on the occasion of his 60th birthday'
shavuoth;jewish holy day celebrated on the sixth of sivan to celebrate moses receiving the ten commandments
pancake day;the last day before lent
april;the month following march and preceding may
name day;the feast day of a saint whose name one bears
longueur;a period of dullness or boredom (especially in a work of literature or performing art)
may day;observed in the united states to celebrate the coming of spring. observed in russia in honor of labor
piece;a period of indeterminate length (usually short) marked by some action or condition. 'he was here for a little while'. 'i need to rest for a piece'. 'a spell of good weather'
spring equinox;march 21
armistice day;us: formerly armistice day. called veterans day since 1954
days;the time during which someone's life continues. 'the monarch's last days'. 'in his final years'
quinquagesima;the sunday before ash wednesday (the beginning of lent)
silurian;from 405 million to 425 million years ago. first air-breathing animals
saint valentine s day;a day for the exchange of tokens of affection
epiphany;twelve days after christmas. celebrates the visit of the three wise men to the infant jesus
may;the month following april and preceding june
aghan;the ninth month of the hindu calendar
lag b omer;jewish holy day. the 33rd day after the 2nd day of passover. the 18th day of iyar
last quarter;the last fourth of the moon's period of revolution around the earth
termination;a coming to an end of a contract period. 'the expiry of his driver's license'
shimchath torah;a jewish holy day celebrated on the 22nd or 23rd of tishri to celebrate the completion of the annual cycle of readings of the torah
grave;death of a person. 'he went to his grave without forgiving me'. 'from cradle to grave'
incubation period;the period between infection and the appearance of symptoms of the disease
solar year;the time for the earth to make one revolution around the sun, measured between two vernal equinoxes
presidency;the tenure of a president. 'things were quiet during the eisenhower administration'
twenties;the time of life between 20 and 30
mid twenties;the time of life between 20 and 30
christmas;a christian holiday celebrating the birth of christ. a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
immaculate conception;first celebrated in 1854
academic term;the time during which a school holds classes. 'they had to shorten the school term'
time of life;a period of time during which a person is normally in a particular life state
mid november;the middle part of november
nov;british. anniversary of the discovery of the gunpowder plot
spell;a time for working (after which you will be relieved by someone else). 'it's my go'. 'a spell of work'
early childhood;the early stage of growth or development
flush;the period of greatest prosperity or productivity
period;a time of life characterized as a distinct phase. 'picasso's blue period'. 'it was the happy period of my life'
mid january;the middle part of january
tide;there are usually two high and two low tides each day
paleozoic;from 230 million to 600 million years ago
rag day;(british) a day on which university students hold a rag
middle watch;a watch during the night (as from midnight to 8 a.m.)
last judgment;(new testament) day of the last judgment when god will decree the fates of all men according to the good and evil of their earthly lives
day;an era of existence or influence. 'in the day of the dinosaurs'. 'in the days of the roman empire'. 'in the days of sailing ships'
lunar year;a period of 12 lunar months
sidereal time;measured by the diurnal motion of stars
phase of the moon;a time when the moon presents a particular recurring appearance
compassionate leave;(military) granted in an emergency such as family sickness or death
daylight savings;time during which clocks are set one hour ahead of local standard time. widely adopted during summer to provide extra daylight in the evenings
date;a particular but unspecified point in time. 'they hoped to get together at an early date'
sabbatical year;a sabbatical leave lasting one year
christian year;the year in the ecclesiastical calendar. especially feast days and special seasons
mardi gras;the last day before lent
calendar year;the year (reckoned from january 1 to december 31) according to gregorian calendar
month;one of the twelve divisions of the calendar year. 'he paid the bill last month'
senility;mental infirmity as a consequence of old age. sometimes shown by foolish infatuations
eocene epoch;from 40 million to 58 million years ago. presence of modern mammals
easter sunday;the day (in march or april) on which the festival of easter is celebrated
today;the present time or age. 'the world of today'. 'today we have computers'
quattrocento;the 15th century in renaissance italian art and literature
rosh hashana;a solemn jewish fast day celebrated on the 1st or 1st and 2nd of tishri. noted for the blowing of the shofar
assumption;celebration of the virgin mary's being taken up into heaven when her earthly life ended
thermidor;eleventh month of the revolutionary calendar (july-aug). the month of heat
quarter;a fourth part of a year. three months. 'unemployment fell during the last quarter'
eastertide;the easter season
st valentine s day;a day for the exchange of tokens of affection
pacific standard time;time of the 120th meridian, used in far western states of the u.s.
midwatch;a watch during the night (as from midnight to 8 a.m.)
germinal;seventh month of the revolutionary calendar (mar-apr). the month of buds
fiscal year;any accounting period of 12 months
dead;a time when coldness (or some other quality associated with death) is intense. 'the dead of winter'
swing shift;the work shift during the evening (as 4 p.m. to midnight)
mountain standard time;time of the 105th meridian, used in the mountain states of the u.s.
pasch;an archaic name for easter or passover
schooltime;the period of instruction in a school. 'stay after school' or 'he didn't miss a single day of school'
mid sixties;the time of life between 60 and 70
september equinox;september 22
purim;a jewish holy day commemorating their deliverance from massacre by haman
mid february;the middle part of february
central standard time;time of the 90th meridian, used in the central u.s.
day;us: formerly armistice day. called veterans day since 1954
ninth of av;a jewish fast day commemorating the destruction of the temples in jerusalem
religious holiday;a day specified for religious observance
point;a very short period of time. 'at that point i had to leave'
dhu l qa dah;the eleventh month of the moslem calendar
aeon;an immeasurably long period of time
day;a day of supplication for all the souls in purgatory
cenozoic;approximately the last 63 million years
new year s day;the first day of the year
life expectancy;an expected time to live as calculated on the basis of statistical probabilities
armed forces day;the 3rd saturday in may
nowadays;any continuous stretch of time including the moment of speech. 'that is enough for the present'. 'he lives in the present with no thought of tomorrow'
forever;time without end
fast of ab;a jewish fast day commemorating the destruction of the temples in jerusalem
quatercentenary;the 400th anniversary
attention span;the length of time you can concentrate on some idea or activity
decade;a period of 10 years
sabbath;a day of rest and worship: sunday for most christians. saturday for the jews and a few christians. friday for muslims
tuesday;the third day of the week. the second working daythe third day of the week. the second working day
afterlife;life after death
immortality;perpetual life after death
whitsun tuesday;the day after whitmonday
dhu l hijja;the twelfth month of the moslem calendar. has one extra day in leap years
morning;the time period between dawn and noon. 'i spent the morning running errands'
furlough;a temporary leave of absence from military duty
wednesday;the fourth day of the week. the third working day
valentine day;a day for the exchange of tokens of affection
wedding day;the day of a wedding
epoch;a unit of geological time
rainy day;a (future) time of financial need. 'i am saving for a rainy day'
day shift;the work shift during the day (as 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
age of fishes;from 345 million to 405 million years ago. dominance of fishes and appearance of amphibians and ammonites
graveyard shift;the work shift during the night (as midnight to 8 a.m.)
future;the time yet to come
november;a christian feast day honoring all the saints. first observed in 835
july;a legal holiday in the united states
saint patrick s day;a day observed by the irish to commemorate the patron saint of ireland
ascension;the 40th day after easter. celebrates the ascension of christ into heaven
mar;the month following february and preceding april
present moment;at this time. 'the disappointments of the here and now'. 'she is studying at the moment'
trm;the universal time coordinated time when a transmission is sent from earth to a spacecraft or other celestial body
reign of terror;any period of brutal suppression resembling the french reign of terror
tertiary period;from 2 million to 63 million years ago
start;the time at which something begins. 'they got an early start'
maidhood;the childhood of a girl
history;the aggregate of past events: 'a critical time in the school's history'
sidereal day;the time for one complete rotation of the earth relative to a particular star, about 4 minutes shorter than a mean solar day
age;a prolonged period of time. 'we've known each other for ages'. 'i haven't been there for years and years'
owlt;the elapsed time it takes for light (or radio signals) to travel between the earth and a celestial object
quarter;one of four periods into which the school year is divided. 'the fall quarter ends at christmas'
solstice;either of the two times of the year when the sun is at its greatest distance from the celestial equator
years;a prolonged period of time. 'we've known each other for ages'. 'i haven't been there for years and years'
beat;the basic rhythmic unit in a piece of music. 'the piece has a fast rhythm'. 'the conductor set the beat'
day;(us) the 3rd monday in february. commemorates both united states presidents lincoln and washington
peak;the period of greatest prosperity or productivity
guy fawkes day;british. anniversary of the discovery of the gunpowder plot
ascension of the lord;the 40th day after easter. celebrates the ascension of christ into heaven
dark;the time after sunset and before sunrise while it is dark outside
indiction;a 15-year cycle used as a chronological unit in ancient rome and adopted in some medieval kingdoms
time;an indefinite period (usually marked by specific attributes or activities). 'he waited a long time'. 'the time of year for planting'. 'he was a great actor is his time'
term;a limited period of time. 'a prison term'. 'he left school before the end of term'
time;"the continuum of experience in which events pass from the future through the present to the past"
summertime;the warmest season of the year. 'they spent a lazy summer at the shore'
extra time;playing time beyond regulation, to break a tie
the good old days;past times remembered with nostalgia
workweek;hours or days of work in a calendar week. 'they worked a 40-hour week'
bronze age;(classical mythology) the third age of the world, marked by war and violence
proterozoic;from 600 million to 1.5 billion years ago. bacteria and fungi. primitive multicellular organisms
new york minute;a very short time. 'if i had the chance i'd do it in a flash'
kislev;the third month of the civil year. the ninth month of the ecclesiastical year in the jewish calendar (in november and december)
octave;a feast day and the seven days following it
day of remembrance;the date on which an event occurred in some previous year
solemnity of mary;(roman catholic) a holy day of obligation
spring training;preseason training during the spring
blue moon;(informal) a long time. 'something that happens once in blue moon almost never happens'
present time;the circumstances and ideas of the present age. 'behind the times'. 'in times like these'
allhallows eve;the evening before all saints' day. often devoted to pranks played by young people
bissextile year;in the gregorian calendar: any year divisible by 4 except centenary years not divisible by 400
leap day;the name of the day that is added during a leap year
passion week;the week before easter
theatrical season;the season when new plays are produced
multistage;occurring in more than one stage
youth;an early period of development. 'during the youth of the project'
day;twelve days after christmas. celebrates the visit of the three wise men to the infant jesus
life;the period during which something is functional (as between birth and death). 'the battery had a short life'. 'he lived a long and happy life'
mst;time of the 105th meridian, used in the mountain states of the u.s.
running time;the length of time that a movie or tv show runs
mesolithic age;middle part of the stone age beginning about 15,000 years ago
field day;a day for outdoor athletic competition
century;100 years
growing season;the season during which a crop grows best
mid december;the middle part of december
old times;past times remembered with nostalgia
by and by;an indefinite time in the future. 'he'll get around to it in the sweet by-and-by'
nineties;the decade from 1990 to 1999
departure time;the time at which a public conveyance is scheduled to depart from a given point of origin
allhallows;a christian feast day honoring all the saints. first observed in 835
septuagesima sunday;the 3rd sunday before lent (or the 9th before easter)
year;a period of time occupying a regular part of a calendar year that is used for some particular activity. 'a school year'
downbeat;the first beat of a musical measure (as the conductor's arm moves downward)
deadline;the point in time at which something must be completed
judgment day;(new testament) day of the last judgment when god will decree the fates of all men according to the good and evil of their earthly lives
hallowe en;the evening before all saints' day. often devoted to pranks played by young people
psychological moment;the most appropriate time for achieving a desired effect
academic year;the period of time each year when the school is open and people are studying
cambrian period;from 500 million to 600 million years ago. marine invertebrates
allegro;a brisk and lively tempo
november;a quarter day in scotland
wintertime;the coldest season of the year
mon;the second day of the week. the first working daythe second day of the week. the first working day
rajab;the seventh month of the moslem calendar
cease;('cease' is a noun only in the phrase 'without cease') end
amount of time;an indefinite length of time. 'a time period of 30 years'. 'hastened the period of his recovery'
neolithic age;latest part of the stone age beginning about 10,000 bc in the middle east (but later elsewhere)
shrove tuesday;the last day before lent
earth received time;the universal time coordinated when an event is received on earth
annunciation;a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
feast of the dedication;an eight-day jewish holiday commemorating the rededication of the temple of jerusalem
anniversary;the date on which an event occurred in some previous year
december;first celebrated in 1854
sidereal month;period between successive conjunctions with a star, 27.322 days
simchat torah;a jewish holy day celebrated on the 22nd or 23rd of tishri to celebrate the completion of the annual cycle of readings of the torah
permian period;from 230 million to 280 million years ago. reptiles
rosh hashanah;a solemn jewish fast day celebrated on the 1st or 1st and 2nd of tishri. noted for the blowing of the shofar
simhat torah;a jewish holy day celebrated on the 22nd or 23rd of tishri to celebrate the completion of the annual cycle of readings of the torah
time period;an indefinite length of time. 'a time period of 30 years'. 'hastened the period of his recovery'
movable feast;a religious holiday that falls on different dates in different years
precambrian period;the time before 600 million years ago
round trip light time;the elapsed time it takes for a signal to travel from earth to a spacecraft (or other body) and back to the starting point
rag;(british) a week at british universities during which side-shows and processions of floats are organized to raise money for charities
free time;to that is free for leisure activities
daylight savings time;time during which clocks are set one hour ahead of local standard time. widely adopted during summer to provide extra daylight in the evenings
regency;(england) the regency was the period from 1811-1820 when the prince of wales was regent during george iii's periods of insanity
thirties;the decade from 1930 to 1939
springtime;the season of growth. 'the emerging buds were a sure sign of spring'. 'he will hold office until the spring of next year'
feast of tabernacles;a jewish harvest festival
renaissance;the period of european history at the close of the middle ages and the rise of the modern world. a cultural rebirth from the 14th through the middle of the 17th centuries
quadragesima;the first sunday in lent
universal time coordinated;greenwich mean time updated with leap seconds
nighttime;the time after sunset and before sunrise while it is dark outside
turn;a time for working (after which you will be relieved by someone else). 'it's my go'. 'a spell of work'
st john s night;the night before midsummer_day
tertiary;from 2 million to 63 million years ago
tabernacles;a jewish harvest festival
centennial;the 100th anniversary
evening;the early part of night (from dinner until bedtime) spent in a special way. 'an evening at the opera'
feb;the name of the day that is added during a leap year
passover;a jewish festival (traditionally 8 days) celebrating the exodus of the israelites from egypt
age of man;last 2 million years
june;commemorating the adoption of the u.s. flag in 1777
archaeozoic era;the time from 1.5 billion to 5 billion years ago. earth's crust formed. unicellular organisms are earliest forms of life
drinking age;the age at which is legal for a person to buy alcoholic beverages
past;a earlier period in someone's life (especially one that they have reason to keep secret). 'reporters dug into the candidate's past'
sidereal year;the time for the earth to make one complete revolution around the sun, relative to the fixed stars
muharram;the first month of the islamic calendar
pentecost;seventh sunday after easter. commemorates the descent of the holy spirit on the apostles. a quarter day in scotland
day;the time after sunrise and before sunset while it is light outside. 'the dawn turned night into day'. 'it is easier to make the repairs in the daytime'
value;(music) the relative duration of a musical note
whit tuesday;the day after whitmonday
long time;a prolonged period of time. 'we've known each other for ages'. 'i haven't been there for years and years'
novitiate;the period during which you are a novice (especially in a religious order)
day;the recurring hours established by contract or usage for work. 'it was a busy day on the stock exchange'
march;the month following february and preceding april
duration;the property of enduring or continuing in time
night;the time between sunset and midnight. 'he watched television every night'
revolutionary calendar month;a month in the french revolutionary calendar
spring;the season of growth. 'the emerging buds were a sure sign of spring'. 'he will hold office until the spring of next year'
davis;celebrated in southern united states
twinkling;a very short time. 'if i had the chance i'd do it in a flash'
15august;the date of allied victory over japan, world war ii
elapsed time;the time that elapses while some event is occurring
field day;(military) a day for military exercises and display
triassic;from 190 million to 230 million years ago. dinosaurs, marine reptiles. volcanic activity
year end;the end of a calendar year. 'he had to unload the merchandise before the year-end'
father s day;us: third sunday in june
sixties;the time of life between 60 and 70
leave of absence;the period of time during which you are absent from work or duty. 'a ten day's leave to visit his mother'
working day;a day on which work is done
decoration day;u.s., last monday in may. commemorates the members of the united states armed forces who were killed in war
eve;the latter part of the day (the period of decreasing daylight from late afternoon until nightfall). 'he enjoyed the evening light across the lake'
silver age;(classical mythology) the second age of the world, characterized by opulence and irreligion. by extension, a period secondary in achievement to a golden age
time of year;one of the natural periods into which the year is divided by the equinoxes and solstices or atmospheric conditions. 'the regular sequence of the seasons'
holocene epoch;approximately the last 10,000 years
football season;the season when football is played
speech day;(british) an annual day in the schools when speeches are made and prizes are distributed
bhadon;the sixth month of the hindu calendar
february;(us) if the ground hog emerges and sees his shadow there will be 6 more weeks of winter
lifespan;the period during which something is functional (as between birth and death). 'the battery had a short life'. 'he lived a long and happy life'
quinquagesima sunday;the sunday before ash wednesday (the beginning of lent)
night;a period of ignorance or backwardness or gloom
time out of mind;the distant past beyond memory
thirty something;the time of life between 30 and 40
split second;a very short time. 'if i had the chance i'd do it in a flash'
flash;a very short time. 'if i had the chance i'd do it in a flash'
seventies;the decade from 1970 to 1979
thanksgiving day;fourth thursday in november in the united states. second monday in october in canada. commemorates a feast held in 1621 by the pilgrims and wampanoag indians
messidor;tenth month of the revolutionary calendar (june-july). the month of harvest
paleocene;from 58 million to 63 million years ago. appearance of birds and earliest mammals
church year;the year in the ecclesiastical calendar. especially feast days and special seasons
holy year;(roman catholic) a period of remission from sin (usually granted every 25 years)
eolithic age;the earliest part of the stone age marked by the earliest signs of human culture
ut1;the local time at the 0 meridian passing through greenwich, england. it is the same everywhere
eastern standard time;time of the 75th meridian, fifth time zone west of greenwich, used in the eastern u.s.
michaelmas;honoring the archangel michael. a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
week;hours or days of work in a calendar week. 'they worked a 40-hour week'
common year;a year that is not a leap year
ninth of ab;a jewish fast day commemorating the destruction of the temples in jerusalem
advent sunday;the first of four sundays of advent
new moon;the time at which the moon appears as a narrow waxing crescent
easter;a christian celebration of the resurrection of christ. celebrated on the sunday following the first full moon after the vernal equinox
time of departure;the time at which a public conveyance is scheduled to depart from a given point of origin
twelfth night;eve of twelfth_day. evening of january 5
offset;the time at which something begins. 'they got an early start'
jubilee;a special anniversary
intercalary year;in the gregorian calendar: any year divisible by 4 except centenary years not divisible by 400
tishah b ab;a jewish fast day commemorating the destruction of the temples in jerusalem
culmination;the decisive moment in a novel or play. 'the deathbed scene is the climax of the play'
st john s eve;the night before midsummer_day
sawan;the fifth month of the hindu calendar
school day;any day on which school is in session
rest day;a day set aside for rest
work day;a day on which work is done
infinity;time without end
time to come;the time yet to come
age of reptiles;from 63 million to 230 million years ago
date;the particular year (usually according to the gregorian calendar) that an event occurred. 'he tried to memorizes all the dates for his history class'
lee s birthday;celebrated in southern united states
twenties;the decade from 1920 to 1929
accelerando;a gradually increasing tempo of music. 'my ear will not accept such violent accelerandos'
yom kippur;a solemn jewish fast day. 10th of tishri. its observance is one of the requirements of the mosaic law
honeymoon;the early usually calm and harmonious period of a relationship. business or political
june;the night before midsummer_day
may;observed in the united states to celebrate the coming of spring. observed in russia in honor of labor
enlistment;a period of time spent in military service
cst;time of the 90th meridian, used in the central u.s.
bicentennial;the 200th anniversary
fete day;a day designated for feasting
point in time;a very short period of time. 'at that point i had to leave'
death;the end of life. continuing until dead. 'he bled to death'. 'a struggle to the last'
washington s birthday;(us) the day on which george washington is remembered
haying;the season for cutting and drying and storing grass as fodder
week;a period of seven consecutive days starting on sunday
carboniferous;from 280 million to 345 million years ago
evening;the latter part of the day (the period of decreasing daylight from late afternoon until nightfall). 'he enjoyed the evening light across the lake'
ert;the universal time coordinated when an event is received on earth
bissextile day;the name of the day that is added during a leap year
day of judgement;(new testament) day of the last judgment when god will decree the fates of all men according to the good and evil of their earthly lives
adar;the sixth month of the civil year. the twelfth month of the ecclesiastic year in the jewish calendar (in february and march)
standard time;the official time in a local region (adjusted for location around the earth). established by law or custom
genital stage;(psychoanalysis) the third sexual and social stage in a child's development. sexual interest focuses on the child's own sex organs and those of others
palm sunday;sunday before easter
bit;an indefinitely short time. 'wait just a moment'. 'it only takes a minute'. 'in just a bit'
gregorian calendar month;a month in the gregorian calendar
maidenhood;the childhood of a girl
degree day;the day on which university degrees are conferred
spacecraft event time;the universal time coordinated time on board the spacecraft. 'scet = trm + owlt'
bloom of youth;the best time of youth
victory day;the day of a victory
january;the first day of the year
majority;the age at which a person is considered competent to manage their own affairs
efflorescence;the period of greatest prosperity or productivity
peacetime;a period of time during which there is no war
times;the circumstances and ideas of the present age. 'behind the times'. 'in times like these'
tebet;the fourth month of the civil year. the tenth month of the ecclesiastical year (in december and january)
shore leave;leave granted to a sailor or naval officer
adulthood;the period of time in your life after your physical growth has stopped and you are fully developed
terminal leave;final leave before discharge from military service
minority;any age prior to the legal age
decennary;a period of 10 years
night;the period spent sleeping. 'i had a restless night'
sabbatical;a leave usually taken every seventh year
graveyard watch;a watch during the night (as from midnight to 8 a.m.)
youth;the time of life between childhood and maturity
millennium;a span of 1000 years
auld langsyne;past times remembered with nostalgia
moment;an indefinitely short time. 'wait just a moment'. 'it only takes a minute'. 'in just a bit'
checkout time;the latest time for vacating a hotel room. 'the checkout here is 12 noon'
miocene;from 13 million to 25 million years ago. appearance of grazing mammals
ember day;a day set aside for fasting and prayer
pass;(military) a written leave of absence. 'he had a pass for three days'
fast time scale;(in simulation) the time scale used in data processing when the time-scale factor is less than one
midterm;middle of an academic term or a political term in office
september;the month following august and preceding october
maundy thursday;the thursday before easter. commemorates the last supper
common era;the time period beginning with the year of christ's birth
life;the period from the present until death. 'he appointed himself emperor for life'
common time;a time signature indicating four beats to the bar
second;an indefinitely short time. 'wait just a moment'. 'it only takes a minute'. 'in just a bit'
fifties;the decade from 1950 to 1959
candlemas day;a quarter day in scotland
eventide;the latter part of the day (the period of decreasing daylight from late afternoon until nightfall). 'he enjoyed the evening light across the lake'
anomalistic year;time of the earth's revolution from perihelion to perihelion again. 365 days and 6 hr and 13 min and 53.1 sec
universal time;the local time at the 0 meridian passing through greenwich, england. it is the same everywhere
slow time scale;(in simulation) the time scale used in data processing when the time-scale factor is greater than one
generation;the normal time between successive generations. 'they had to wait a generation for that prejudice to fade'
finale;the concluding time. 'he awaited the grand finale'. 'he stayed until the finish'. 'he left before the conclusion'
mid september;the middle part of september
upper carboniferous;from 280 million to 310 million years ago. warm climate. swampy land
saint joseph;a christian holy day
vac;british informal term
inauguration day;the day designated for inauguration of the u.s. president
lord s day;first day of the week. observed as a day of rest and worship by most christians
july;the month following june and preceding august
ordovician period;from 425 million to 500 million years ago. conodonts and ostracods and algae and seaweeds
nap;a period of time spent sleeping. 'he felt better after a little sleep'. 'a brief nap'
modern times;the circumstances and ideas of the present age. 'behind the times'. 'in times like these'
pennsylvanian period;from 280 million to 310 million years ago. warm climate. swampy land
septuagesima;the 3rd sunday before lent (or the 9th before easter)
pus;the tenth month of the hindu calendar
lententide;a period of 40 weekdays from ash wednesday to holy saturday
duration;the period of time during which something continues
michaelmastide;the season of michaelmas
incipience;beginning to exist or to be apparent. 'he placed the incipience of democratic faith at around 1850'. 'it is designed to arrest monopolies in their incipiency'
canicule;the hot period between early july and early september. a period of inactivity
good friday;friday before easter
chait;the first hindu calendar month (corresponding to march or april in the gregorian calendar)
sabbatical leave;a leave usually taken every seventh year
whitsuntide;christian holiday. the week beginning on whitsunday (especially the first 3 days)
tropical year;the time for the earth to make one revolution around the sun, measured between two vernal equinoxes
chanukah;an eight-day jewish holiday commemorating the rededication of the temple of jerusalem
time;a period of time considered as a resource under your control and sufficient to accomplish something. 'take time to smell the roses'. 'i didn't have time to finish'. 'it took more than half my time'
duty tour;a period of time spent in military service
jewish new year;a solemn jewish fast day celebrated on the 1st or 1st and 2nd of tishri. noted for the blowing of the shofar
boyhood;the childhood of a boy
kickoff;the time at which something begins. 'they got an early start'
mid april;the middle part of april
cretaceous period;from 63 million to 135 million years ago. end of the age of reptiles. appearance of modern insects and flowering plants
iyar;the eighth month of the civil year. the second month of the ecclesiastical year (in april and may)
civil time;the official time in a local region (adjusted for location around the earth). established by law or custom
working day;the amount of time that a worker must work for an agreed daily wage. 'they work an 8-hour day'
lower carboniferous period;from 310 million to 345 million years ago. increase of land areas. primitive ammonites. winged insects
extra innings;baseball
calendar day;a day reckoned from midnight to midnight
millennium;the 1000th anniversary
afternoon;the part of the day between noon and evening. 'he spent a quiet afternoon in the park'
aeon;the longest division of geological time. two or more eras
watch;the period during which someone (especially a guard) is on duty
brumaire;second month of the revolutionary calendar (oct-nov). the month of mist
payday;the day on which you receive pay for your work
checkout;the latest time for vacating a hotel room. 'the checkout here is 12 noon'
easter day;the day (in march or april) on which the festival of easter is celebrated
ellul;the twelfth month of the civil year. the sixth month of the ecclesiastical year in the jewish calendar (in august and september)
oligocene epoch;from 25 million to 40 million years ago. appearance of sabertoothed cats
archaeozoic;the time from 1.5 billion to 5 billion years ago. earth's crust formed. unicellular organisms are earliest forms of life
av;the eleventh month of the civil year. the fifth month of the ecclesiastical year in the jewish calendar (in july and august)
prison term;the period of time a prisoner is imprisoned. 'he served a prison term of 15 months'. 'his sentence was 5 to 10 years'. 'he is doing time in the county jail'
ramadan;the ninth month of the moslem calendar
day;a christian feast day honoring all the saints. first observed in 835
futurity;the time yet to come
ides;in the roman calendar: the 15th of march or may or july or october or the 13th of any other month
daylight;the time after sunrise and before sunset while it is light outside. 'the dawn turned night into day'. 'it is easier to make the repairs in the daytime'
limitation;(in law) a time period after which suits cannot be brought. 'statute of limitations'
feast day;a day designated for feasting
maturity;the period of time in your life after your physical growth has stopped and you are fully developed
commencement day;the day on which university degrees are conferred
day of atonement;a solemn jewish fast day. 10th of tishri. its observance is one of the requirements of the mosaic law
dec;the day before christmas
climacteric;the time in a woman's life in which the menstrual cycle ends
fourth of july;a legal holiday in the united states
holy innocents;december 28, commemorating herod's slaughter of the children of bethlehem
st martin s day;a quarter day in scotland
social season;the season for major social events
beauty sleep;sleep before midnight
corpus christi;thursday after trinity sunday. first celebrated in 1246
november;a day of supplication for all the souls in purgatory
paleolithic age;second part of the stone age beginning about 750,000 years ago
v j day;the date of allied victory over japan, world war ii
scet;the universal time coordinated time on board the spacecraft. 'scet = trm + owlt'
hereafter;the time yet to come
quaternary;last 2 million years
hanukah;an eight-day jewish holiday commemorating the rededication of the temple of jerusalem
span;the complete duration of something. 'the job was finished in the span of an hour'
rosh hashonah;a solemn jewish fast day celebrated on the 1st or 1st and 2nd of tishri. noted for the blowing of the shofar
age;a time in life (usually defined in years) at which some particular qualification or power arises. 'she was now of school age'
great year;time required for one complete cycle of the precession of the equinoxes, about 25,800 years
moment;at this time. 'the disappointments of the here and now'. 'she is studying at the moment'
ad;anno domini (in the year of our lord). used in reckoning dates after the supposed year christ was born
nonage;any age prior to the legal age
restoration;the reign of charles ii in england. 1660-1685
prehistory;the time during human development before the appearance of the written word
vernal equinox;march 21
minute;an indefinitely short time. 'wait just a moment'. 'it only takes a minute'. 'in just a bit'
mid october;the middle part of october
geological time;the time of the physical formation and development of the earth (especially prior to human history)
midterm;the middle of the gestation period
go;a time for working (after which you will be relieved by someone else). 'it's my go'. 'a spell of work'
middle ages;the period of history between classical antiquity and the italian renaissance
glacial epoch;any period of time during which glaciers covered a large part of the earth's surface
period;a stage in the history of a culture having a definable place in space and time. 'a novel from the victorian period'
elul;the twelfth month of the civil year. the sixth month of the ecclesiastical year in the jewish calendar (in august and september)
bc;before christ. used in reckoning dates before the supposed year christ was born
dying;the time when something ends. 'it was the death of all his plans'. 'a dying of old hopes'
dec;a christian holiday celebrating the birth of christ. a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
arbor day;a day designated for planting trees
day of rest;a day set aside for rest
vendemiaire;first month of the revolutionary calendar (sept-oct). the month of the grape harvest
washday;a day set aside for doing household laundry
two weeks;a period of fourteen consecutive days. 'most major tennis tournaments last a fortnight'
work shift;the time period during which you are at work
term of office;the term during which some position is held
threshold;the starting point of a new state or experience. 'on the threshold of manhood'
now;the momentary present. 'now is a good time to do it'. 'it worked up to right now'
sleep;a period of time spent sleeping. 'he felt better after a little sleep'. 'a brief nap'
guest night;(british) an evening when members of a club or college can bring their friends as guests
low sunday;the sunday following easter
heyday;the period of greatest prosperity or productivity
feast of weeks;jewish holy day celebrated on the sixth of sivan to celebrate moses receiving the ten commandments
polling day;the day appointed for an election. in the united states it is the 1st tuesday after the 1st monday in november
nissan;the seventh month of the civil year. the first month of the ecclesiastic year (in march and april)
shawwal;the tenth month of the moslem calendar
wartime;a period of time during which there is armed conflict
tiebreaker;e.g. tennis and soccer
season;a recurrent time marked by major holidays. 'it was the christmas season'
hours;a period of time assigned for work. 'they work long hours'
feast of booths;a jewish harvest festival
terminus a quo;earliest limiting point
split shift;a working shift divided into two periods of time with several hours in between
martinmas;a quarter day in scotland
pacific time;time of the 120th meridian, used in far western states of the u.s.
feast of the unleavened bread;a jewish festival (traditionally 8 days) celebrating the exodus of the israelites from egypt
tomorrow;the near future. 'tomorrow's world'. 'everyone hopes for a better tomorrow'
lent;a period of 40 weekdays from ash wednesday to holy saturday
memorial day;u.s., last monday in may. commemorates the members of the united states armed forces who were killed in war
dogwatch;either of two short watches: from 4-6 pm or 6-8 pm
rosh hashona;a solemn jewish fast day celebrated on the 1st or 1st and 2nd of tishri. noted for the blowing of the shofar
clocking;the time taken to traverse a measured course. 'it was a world record clocking'
upper carboniferous period;from 280 million to 310 million years ago. warm climate. swampy land
shavuot;jewish holy day celebrated on the sixth of sivan to celebrate moses receiving the ten commandments
mid may;the middle part of may
climax;the decisive moment in a novel or play. 'the deathbed scene is the climax of the play'
birthday;an anniversary of the day on which a person was born
bank holiday;any of several weekdays when banks are closed. a legal holiday in britain
siwan;the ninth month of the civil year. the third month of the ecclesiastical year in the jewish calendar (in may and june)
hanukkah;an eight-day jewish holiday commemorating the rededication of the temple of jerusalem
tour of duty;a period of time spent in military service
session;the time during which a school holds classes. 'they had to shorten the school term'
devonian;from 345 million to 405 million years ago. dominance of fishes and appearance of amphibians and ammonites
lunar day;the period of time taken for the moon to make one full rotation on its axis (about 27.3 sidereal days)
dark ages;the period of history between classical antiquity and the italian renaissance
mid august;the middle part of august
civil year;the year (reckoned from january 1 to december 31) according to gregorian calendar
day;december 28, commemorating herod's slaughter of the children of bethlehem
valentine s day;a day for the exchange of tokens of affection
mother s day;second sunday in may
drought;a prolonged shortage
april fools;april 1. celebrated by playing of practical jokes
full phase of the moon;the time when the moon is fully illuminated
moveable feast;a religious holiday that falls on different dates in different years
widowhood;the time of a woman's life when she is a widow
nineties;the time of life between 90 and 100
then;that time. that moment. 'we will arrive before then'. 'we were friends from then on'
thanksgiving;fourth thursday in november in the united states. second monday in october in canada. commemorates a feast held in 1621 by the pilgrims and wampanoag indians
tues;the third day of the week. the second working daythe third day of the week. the second working day
jan;the first month of the year. begins 10 days after the winter solstice
admission day;in some states of the united states: a legal holiday commemorating the day the state was admitted to the union
calendar week;a period of seven consecutive days starting on sunday
terminal point;final or latest limiting point
age of mammals;approximately the last 63 million years
full term;the end of gestation or point at which birth is imminent. 'a healthy baby born at full term'
honeymoon;a holiday taken by a newly married couple
sixties;the decade from 1960 to 1969
february;a day for the exchange of tokens of affection
high time;the latest possible moment. 'it is high time you went to work'
bloom;the best time of youth
july;(canada) a legal holiday commemorating receiving dominion status in 1867
succos;a jewish harvest festival
last day;(new testament) day of the last judgment when god will decree the fates of all men according to the good and evil of their earthly lives
pleistocene epoch;from 11 thousand to 2 millions years ago. extensive glaciation of n hemisphere. time of human evolution
friday;the sixth day of the week. the fifth working day
demise;the time when something ends. 'it was the death of all his plans'. 'a dying of old hopes'
yukon time;time of the 135th meridian
allegro con spirito;lively with spirit
day;some point or period in time. 'it should arrive any day now'. 'after that day she never trusted him again'. 'those were the days'. 'these days it is not unusual'
christmas day;a christian holiday celebrating the birth of christ. a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
march;a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
alpha and omega;the first and last. signifies god's eternity
winter solstice;december 22, when the sun is at its southernmost point
 april fools;april 1. celebrated by playing of practical jokes
heshvan;the second month of the civil year. the eighth month of the ecclesiastical year in the jewish calendar (in october and november)
first;the time at which something begins. 'they got an early start'
stretch;an unbroken period of time during which you do something. 'there were stretches of boredom'. 'he did a stretch in the federal penitentiary'
first of may;observed in the united states to celebrate the coming of spring. observed in russia in honor of labor
nineties;the decade from 1890 to 1899
commencement;the time at which something begins. 'they got an early start'
three kings;twelve days after christmas. celebrates the visit of the three wise men to the infant jesus
iron age;(archeology) the period following the bronze age. characterized by rapid spread of iron tools and weapons
golden age;(classical mythology) the first and best age of the world, a time of ideal happiness, prosperity, and innocence. by extension, any flourishing and outstanding period
morn;the time period between dawn and noon. 'i spent the morning running errands'
glacial epoch;from 11 thousand to 2 millions years ago. extensive glaciation of n hemisphere. time of human evolution
continuum;a continuous nonspatial whole or extent or succession in which no part or portion is distinct of distinguishable from adjacent parts
eon;an immeasurably long period of time
tercentenary;the 300th anniversary
past times;the time that has elapsed. 'forget the past'
iyyar;the eighth month of the civil year. the second month of the ecclesiastical year (in april and may)
lower carboniferous;from 310 million to 345 million years ago. increase of land areas. primitive ammonites. winged insects
prime of life;the time of maturity when power and vigor are greatest
picnic;a day devoted to an outdoor social gathering
full of the moon;the time when the moon is fully illuminated
menopause;the time in a woman's life in which the menstrual cycle ends
forties;the time of life between 40 and 50
pascha;an archaic name for easter or passover
schooldays;the time of life when you are going to school
leisure;time available for ease and relaxation. 'his job left him little leisure'
blossom;the period of greatest prosperity or productivity
april;a day celebrating political and economic unity among american countries
ephemera;something transitory. lasting a day
downtime;a period of time when something (as a machine or factory) is not operating (especially as a result of malfunctions)
citizenship day;celebrated in the united states
time limit;a time period within which something must be done or completed
market day;a fixed day for holding a public market
feast of dedication;an eight-day jewish holiday commemorating the rededication of the temple of jerusalem
gestation period;the period during which an embryo develops (about 266 days in humans)
islamic calendar month;any lunar month in the moslem calendar
note value;(music) the relative duration of a musical note
nonce;the present occasion. 'for the nonce'
hard time;a term served in a maximum security prison
frimaire;third month of the revolutionary calendar (nov-dec). the frosty month
era;a period marked by distinctive character or reckoned from a fixed point or event
mid seventies;the time of life between 70 and 80
overtime;work done in addition to regular working hours
weeknight;any night of the week except saturday or sunday
glacial period;any period of time during which glaciers covered a large part of the earth's surface
time scale;an arrangement of events used as a measure of duration. 'on the geological time scale mankind has existed but for a brief moment'
rejoicing over the law;a jewish holy day celebrated on the 22nd or 23rd of tishri to celebrate the completion of the annual cycle of readings of the torah
labor day;first monday in september in u.s. and canada
eighties;the decade from 1980 to 1989
eve;the period immediately before something. 'on the eve of the french revolution'
quarter century;25 years
mid nineties;the time of life between 90 and 100
whitweek;christian holiday. the week beginning on whitsunday (especially the first 3 days)
october;a legal holiday commemorating the discovery of america by christopher columbus
pesach;a jewish festival (traditionally 8 days) celebrating the exodus of the israelites from egypt
prime;the time of maturity when power and vigor are greatest
new year s eve;the last day of the year
jumada i;the fifth month of the moslem calendar
middle;time between the beginning and the end of a temporal period: 'the middle of the war'. 'rain during the middle of april'
common measure;a time signature indicating four beats to the bar
october;the month following september and preceding november
jumada ii;the sixth month of the moslem calendar
astronomical year;the time for the earth to make one revolution around the sun, measured between two vernal equinoxes
babyhood;the early stage of growth or development
semester;one of two divisions of an academic year
tet;vietnamese new year. observed for 3 days after the 1st full moon after january 20th
spare time;time when you are free to do things that you enjoy
lammastide;the season of lammas (scotland)
early days;an early period of development. 'during the youth of the project'
yore;the time that has elapsed. 'forget the past'
half holiday;a day on which half is free from work or duty
duty period;the time period during which you are at work
patriot s day;the 3rd monday in april. massachusetts and maine celebrate the battle of lexington and concord in 1775
sidereal hour;1/24 of a sidereal day
v e day;the date of allied victory in europe, world war ii
night;the time after sunset and before sunrise while it is dark outside
one way light time;the elapsed time it takes for light (or radio signals) to travel between the earth and a celestial object
sunday;first day of the week. observed as a day of rest and worship by most christians
fall equinox;september 22
birth;the time when something begins (especially life). 'they divorced after the birth of the child' or 'his election signaled the birth of a new age'
saints peter and paul;first celebrated in the 3rd century
rainy season;one of the two seasons in tropical climates
epoch;(astronomy) the precise date that is the point of reference for which information (as coordinates of a celestial body) is referred
hindu calendar month;any lunisolar month in the hindu calendar
preseason;a period prior to the beginning of the regular season which is devoted to training and preparation
long haul;a period of time sufficient for factors to work themselves out. 'in the long run we will win' or 'he performed well over the long haul'
evening shift;the work shift during the evening (as 4 p.m. to midnight)
time of arrival;the time at which a public conveyance is scheduled to arrive at a given destination
overtime period;e.g. basketball
seedtime;the time during which seeds should be planted
cenozoic era;approximately the last 63 million years
august;celebration of the virgin mary's being taken up into heaven when her earthly life ended
calendar month;one of the twelve divisions of the calendar year. 'he paid the bill last month'
time value;(music) the relative duration of a musical note
assumption of mary;celebration of the virgin mary's being taken up into heaven when her earthly life ended
mountain time;time of the 105th meridian, used in the mountain states of the u.s.
all fools;april 1. celebrated by playing of practical jokes
fag end;the time of the last part of something. 'the fag end of this crisis-ridden century'. 'the tail of the storm'
pan american day;a day celebrating political and economic unity among american countries
january;(roman catholic) a holy day of obligation
yule;period extending from dec. 24 to jan. 6
august;commemorates saint peter's miraculous deliverance from prison. a quarter day in scotland. a harvest festival in england
childhood;the time of person's life when they are a child
safar;the second month of the moslem calendar
silver wedding anniversary;the 25th wedding anniversary
voting age;the age at which a person is old enough to vote in public elections
starting point;earliest limiting point
teens;the time of life between the ages of 12 and 20
age;time of life. 'he's showing his years'. 'age hasn't slowed him down at all'
overtime;playing time beyond regulation, to break a tie
bering time;time of the 165th meridian, used in western alaska and the aleutian islands
simchas torah;a jewish holy day celebrated on the 22nd or 23rd of tishri to celebrate the completion of the annual cycle of readings of the torah
presidents;(us) the 3rd monday in february. commemorates both united states presidents lincoln and washington
week;any period of seven consecutive days. 'it rained for a week'
extended time scale;(in simulation) the time scale used in data processing when the time-scale factor is greater than one
paleocene epoch;from 58 million to 63 million years ago. appearance of birds and earliest mammals
tishri;the first month of the civil year. the seventh month of the ecclesiastical year in the jewish calendar (in september and october)
day;april 1. celebrated by playing of practical jokes
st john s day;a quarter day in england, wales, and ireland
years;time of life. 'he's showing his years'. 'age hasn't slowed him down at all'
shrovetide;immediately preceding lent
starting time;the time at which something begins. 'they got an early start'
dog days;the hot period between early july and early september. a period of inactivity
victorian age;a period in british history during the reign of queen victoria in the 19th century. her character and moral standards restored the prestige of the british monarchy but gave the era a prudish reputation
limit;final or latest limiting point
bimillennium;a span of 2000 years
lincoln s birthday;(us) the day on which president abraham lincoln is remembered
school term;the time during which a school holds classes. 'they had to shorten the school term'
sentence;the period of time a prisoner is imprisoned. 'he served a prison term of 15 months'. 'his sentence was 5 to 10 years'. 'he is doing time in the county jail'
day of reckoning;day when the consequences of misdeeds are felt
new deal;the historic period (1933-1940) in the u.s. during which president franklin roosevelt's economic policies were implemented
innocents;december 28, commemorating herod's slaughter of the children of bethlehem
greenwich time;the local time at the 0 meridian passing through greenwich, england. it is the same everywhere
mid fifties;the time of life between 50 and 60
quatercentennial;the 400th anniversary
dry season;one of the two seasons in tropical climates
exhibition season;the time before the regular games begin when football or baseball teams play practice games
musical rhythm;the basic rhythmic unit in a piece of music. 'the piece has a fast rhythm'. 'the conductor set the beat'
tempo;the speed at which a composition is to be played
week from monday;(informal) a time period of a week or more. 'a week from monday will be too soon!'
ice age;any period of time during which glaciers covered a large part of the earth's surface
rhythm;the basic rhythmic unit in a piece of music. 'the piece has a fast rhythm'. 'the conductor set the beat'
bastille day;a legal holiday in france
midwinter;the middle of winter
sheepshearing;the time or season when sheep are sheared
high holiday;jewish holy days observed with particular solemnity
reign of terror;the historic period (1793-94) during the french revolution when thousands were executed. 'the reign of the bourbons ended and the reign of terror began'
new year s;the first day of the year
outset;the time at which something begins. 'they got an early start'
season;a period of the year marked by special events or activities in some field. 'he celebrated his 10th season with the ballet company' or 'she always looked forward to the avocado season'
fifties;the time of life between 50 and 60
gmt;the local time at the 0 meridian passing through greenwich, england. it is the same everywhere
daytime;the time after sunrise and before sunset while it is light outside. 'the dawn turned night into day'. 'it is easier to make the repairs in the daytime'
lease;the period of time during which a contract conveying property to a person is in effect
gestation;the period during which an embryo develops (about 266 days in humans)
pluviose;fifth month of the revolutionary calendar (jan-feb). the rainy month
aug;the month following july and preceding september
bicentenary;the 200th anniversary
bygone;past events to be put aside. 'let bygones be bygones'
autumn;the season when the leaves fall from the trees. 'in the fall of 1973'
paid vacation;a vacation from work by an employee with pay granted
weekday;any day except sunday (and sometimes except saturday)
rosh hodesh;the beginning of each month in the jewish calendar. marked by a special liturgy
christian holy day;a religious holiday for christians
est;time of the 75th meridian, fifth time zone west of greenwich, used in the eastern u.s.
season;one of the natural periods into which the year is divided by the equinoxes and solstices or atmospheric conditions. 'the regular sequence of the seasons'
silver jubilee;an anniversary celebrating the passage of 25 years
jurassic;from 135 million to 190 million years ago. dinosaurs. conifers
basketball season;the season when basketball is played
time;a suitable moment. 'it is time to go'
mid july;the middle part of july
holiday;leisure time away from work. devoted to rest or pleasure
incumbency;the term during which some position is held
shiva;(judaism) a period of seven days of mourning after the death of close relative. 'the family is sitting shiva'
devonian period;from 345 million to 405 million years ago. dominance of fishes and appearance of amphibians and ammonites
holy saturday;the saturday before easter. the last day of lent
modern world;the circumstances and ideas of the present age. 'behind the times'. 'in times like these'
pleistocene;from 11 thousand to 2 millions years ago. extensive glaciation of n hemisphere. time of human evolution
hallowmass;a christian feast day honoring all the saints. first observed in 835
candlemas;a quarter day in scotland
age;a historic period. 'we live in a litigious age'
last;the end of life. continuing until dead. 'he bled to death'. 'a struggle to the last'
march;a christian holy day
hallowmas;a christian feast day honoring all the saints. first observed in 835
indian summer;a period of unusually warm weather in the autumn
january;a christian holy day
tisha b av;a jewish fast day commemorating the destruction of the temples in jerusalem
equinox;either of two times of the year when the sun crosses the plane of the earth's equator and day and night are of equal length
february;(us) the day on which george washington is remembered
travel time;a period of time spent traveling. 'workers were not paid for their travel time between home and factory'
june;the month following may and preceding july
arrival time;the time at which a public conveyance is scheduled to arrive at a given destination
quadrigesima sunday;the first sunday in lent
martin luther king day;observed on the monday closest to january 15
midafternoon;the middle part of the afternoon
november;the month following october and preceding december
millennium;(new testament) in revelations it is foretold that those faithful to jesus will reign with jesus over the earth for a thousand years. the meaning of these words have been much debated. some denominations (e.g. jehovah's witnesses) expect it to be a thousand years of justice and peace and happiness
